<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100701_10-K_edgar_data_1341439_0001193125-10-151896_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>7323743</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>566055</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>516594</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1640421</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>1913499</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2334910</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>87</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-10-151896.hdr.sgml : 20100701
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100630215905
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-10-151896
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20100531
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100701
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100630

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ORACLE CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001341439
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				542185193
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0531

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-51788
		FILM NUMBER:		10928674

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		500 ORACLE PARKWAY
		STREET 2:		MAIL STOP 5 OP 7
		CITY:			REDWOOD CITY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94065
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6505067000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		500 ORACLE PARKWAY
		STREET 2:		MAIL STOP 5 OP 7
		CITY:			REDWOOD CITY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94065

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	Ozark Holding Inc.
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20051013

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 BorIhc4LJMltloN4gIfxVVhDsBGqDBtz1nD3+l5dj5LhWp1zXGdD+5OR9fdkmXaV
 1LF8V3EQNkJAdyIMBJ5U1Q==

 0001193125-10-151896.txt : 20100701

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED MAY 31, 2010

For the fiscal year ended May 31, 2010 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION    
   Washington, D.C. 20549         
        FORM 10-K  
      
     For the fiscal year ended May 31, 2010    
   OR        
     For the transition period from
                  to                       
   Commission file number: 000-51788         
        Oracle
Corporation        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)    

Delaware   
     
   54-2185193    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of   
   incorporation or organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer   
   Identification No.)     

500 Oracle Parkway   
   Redwood City, California    
     
   94065    
 
   (Address of principal executive offices)   
     
   (Zip Code)         (650)
506-7000        (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)    
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    

Title of each class   
     
   Name of each exchange on which registered    
 
  Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share  
     
  The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC    
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:    
  None      Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    YES             NO        
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    YES             NO        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    YES         NO        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File
required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    YES             NO        
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer,
an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act.       

Large accelerated filer       
      
  Accelerated filer        

Non-accelerated filer       
      
  Smaller reporting company        
 
  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
      
       Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).     YES             NO        
  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $85,417,126,000 based on the number of shares held by
non-affiliates of the registrant as of May 31, 2010, and based on the closing sale price of common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market on November 30, 2009, which is the last business day of the registrant s most
recently completed second fiscal quarter. This calculation does not reflect a determination that persons are affiliates for any other purposes.   
  Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of June 22, 2010: 5,026,247,000.   
   Documents Incorporated by Reference:    
  Portions of the registrant s definitive proxy statement relating to its 2010 annual stockholders  meeting are incorporated by reference into
Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K where indicated.           

Table of Contents  

    ORACLE CORPORATION    
   FISCAL YEAR 2010    
   FORM 10-K    
   ANNUAL REPORT         
  
        TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page    
 
     PART I.    

Item 1.   
      
     Business    
      
  2   

Item 1A.   
      
     Risk Factors    
      
  16   

Item 1B.   
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  29   

Item 2.   
      
     Properties    
      
  29   

Item 3.   
      
     Legal Proceedings    
      
  29   

Item 4.   
      
     (Removed and Reserved)    
      
  29   

PART II.    

Item 5.   
      
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
  30   

Item 6.   
      
     Selected Financial Data    
      
  32   

Item 7.   
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    
      
  33   

Item 7A.   
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
      
  74   

Item 8.   
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  77   

Item 9.   
      
     Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure    
      
  77   

Item 9A.   
      
     Controls and Procedures    
      
  77   

Item 9B.   
      
     Other Information    
      
  79   

PART III.    

Item 10.   
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  80   

Item 11.   
      
     Executive Compensation    
      
  80   

Item 12.   
      
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
      
  80   

Item 13.   
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  80   

Item 14.   
      
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
      
  80   

PART IV.    

Item 15.   
      
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  80   

Signatures    
      
  136    

Table of Contents  

    Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements    
  For purposes of this Annual Report, the terms  Oracle,   we,   us  and  our  refer to Oracle Corporation and its
consolidated subsidiaries. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements that are not historical in nature, are predictive in nature, or that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or contain forward-looking statements within the
meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be preceded by, followed by or include the words  expects, 
 anticipates,   intends,   plans,   believes,   seeks,   estimates,   will,   is designed to  and similar expressions. We claim the protection of the safe harbor for
forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for all forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These
forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions about our business. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in  Risk Factors  beginning on
page 17 of this Annual Report, and as may be updated in filings we make from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ). You should understand that the following important factors, in addition to those discussed
elsewhere in this Annual Report, could affect our future results, and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements:   

Economic, political and market conditions, including the recent recession and global economic crisis, can adversely affect our business, results of
operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price.          

We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a
particular quarter, unanticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases or a decline in our renewal rates for software license updates and product support.     

Our entrance into the hardware systems business may not be successful, and we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts with respect to this new
business.         

We have an active acquisition program and our acquisitions, including our acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. may not be successful, may involve
unanticipated costs or other integration issues or may disrupt our existing operations.         

Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results, including risks relating to
foreign currency gains and losses and risks relating to compliance with international and U.S. laws that apply to our international operations.          

Intense competitive forces demand rapid technological advances and frequent new product introductions and could require us to reduce prices or cause us
to lose customers.          

If we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, or to enhance and improve our products and support services in a
timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet market demand, customers may not buy new software licenses or hardware systems products or purchase or renew support contracts.     
  We have no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or risks, except
to the extent required by applicable securities laws. If we do update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements. New
information, future events or risks could cause the forward-looking events we discuss in this Annual Report not to occur. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our opinions only as of the date of this
Annual Report. You should carefully review the risk factors described in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q to be filed by us in our 2011 fiscal year, which runs from June 1,
2010 to May 31, 2011.         
   1   

Table of Contents  

    PART I    
     Item 1.    Business    
   General       We are the world s largest
enterprise software company. As a result of our acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun) in January 2010, we are also a leading provider of hardware products and services. We develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database and
middleware software, applications software and hardware systems, consisting primarily of computer server and storage products, which are designed to help our customers manage and grow their business operations.   
  Our goal is to be the world s most complete, open and integrated enterprise software and hardware company. We offer customers scalable, reliable,
secure and integrated software and hardware solutions that are designed to improve transactional efficiencies, adapt to an organization s unique needs and allow better ways to access and manage information and automate business processes at a
lower total cost of ownership. We seek to be an industry leader in each of the specific product categories in which we compete and to expand into new and emerging markets.   
  We believe our internal, or organic, growth and continued innovation with respect to our software, hardware and services businesses are the foundation of
our long-term strategic plan. In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 we invested $3.3 billion, $2.8 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively, in research and development to enhance our existing portfolio of products and services and to develop new products,
features and services. We also believe that an active acquisition program is an important element of our corporate strategy as it strengthens our competitive position, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows
our revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies that add to, are complementary to or have otherwise enhanced our
existing offerings. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy.   
  Oracle Corporation was incorporated in 2005 as a Delaware corporation and is the successor to operations originally begun in June 1977.   
   Software, Hardware Systems and Services    
  With the acquisition of Sun, we are now organized into three businesses software, hardware systems and services which are further divided into
seven operating segments. Our software business is comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software licenses and (2) software license updates and product support. Our hardware systems business consists of two operating segments:
(1) hardware systems products and (2) hardware systems support. Our services business is comprised of three operating segments: (1) consulting, (2) On Demand and (3) education.   
  Our software, hardware systems and services businesses represented 77%, 9% and 14% of our total revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2010. Prior to our
acquisition of Sun in fiscal 2010, we did not have a hardware systems segment. Our software and services businesses represented 81% and 19% of our total revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2009 and 80% and 20% of our total revenues, respectively, in
fiscal 2008. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our operating segments.   
    Software Business        Our software
business consists of our new software licenses segment and software license updates and product support segment.        New Software Licenses
       The new software licenses operating segment of our software business includes the licensing of database and middleware software as
well as applications software. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we acquired software technologies that expanded and enhanced our existing database and middleware software product offerings, including the Java technology platform.   
     
   2   

Table of Contents  

   Our software solutions are designed to help customers reduce the cost and complexity of their information
technology (or IT) infrastructures by delivering solutions via a standards-based, or  open , integrated architecture, which allows our software products to work in customer environments that may include Oracle or non-Oracle hardware or
software components. This approach supports customer choice, reduces customer risk and can be adapted to the specific needs of any industry or application. In this model, our database and certain of our middleware offerings are designed to manage
and protect a customer s underlying business information, while application servers run enterprise applications that are designed to automate multiple business functions and provide intelligence in critical functional areas. Our software
products are designed to operate on both single server and clustered server configurations, which we refer to as  grid  software, to support a choice of operating systems, including Solaris, Linux, Microsoft Windows and UNIX.   
  New software license revenues include fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our software products and exclude revenues derived from software
license updates and product support. The standard end user software license agreement for our products generally provides for an initial fee to use the software product in perpetuity based on a maximum number of processors, named users or other
metrics. We also have other types of software license agreements, including licenses that are restricted by the number of employees, licenses that provide for a limited term and open source licenses. New software license revenues represented 28%,
31%, and 34% of total revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.       Database and Middleware Software    
  Our database and middleware software offerings are designed to provide a cost-effective, high-performance platform for running and managing business
applications for small and mid-size businesses, as well as large, global enterprises. Our customers are increasingly focused on reducing the total cost of their IT infrastructure and we believe that our software offerings help them achieve this
goal. Our software is designed to accommodate demanding, non-stop business environments, using server, storage and application grids. These grids are designed to scale incrementally as required to address our customers  IT capacity; satisfy
their planning and procurement needs; support all of their business applications; lower their overall hardware investment; reduce their risk of data loss and IT infrastructure downtime; and efficiently utilize available IT resources to meet quality
of service expectations. New software license revenues from database and middleware products represented 72% of our new software license revenues in both fiscal 2010 and 2009 and 68% of our new software license revenues in fiscal 2008.   
   Database       The Oracle Database is the
world s most popular enterprise database and is designed to enable the secure storage, retrieval and manipulation of all forms of data, including transactional data, business application data, analytic data, and unstructured data in the form of
XML files, office documents, images, video, spatial and other specialized forms of data such as human genomic and medical data. The Oracle Database is used for a variety of purposes including online transaction processing, data warehousing, as a
document repository or specialized data store and as a database with packaged applications.      The Oracle Database is available in four editions:
Express Edition, Standard Edition One, Standard Edition and Enterprise Edition. All editions are built using the same underlying code, which means that our database software can scale from small, single processor servers to clusters of
multi-processor servers. A number of optional offerings are available with Oracle Database Enterprise Edition to address specific customer requirements in the areas of performance and scalability, high availability, data security and compliance,
data warehousing, information management and systems management. Examples of these options include:       

Oracle Real Application Clusters, which is designed to enable any Oracle Database application to share more efficiently the processing power and memory
capacity of a fault tolerant cluster of servers;          

Oracle Exadata, which is designed to improve database storage and query performance by, among other things, enabling query processing closer to
customer data and reducing required disk space;          

Oracle Advanced Compression, which is designed to enable customers to reduce the amount of disk space required to store all their business information
and improve query performance;            
   3   

Table of Contents  

Oracle Partitioning, which is designed to break down large database tables into smaller segments for faster query performance and easier management of
data throughout its lifecycle;          

Oracle Database Security solutions, which are designed to protect data while it is moving over the network to the database (Advanced Security Option),
to protect data when it is within the database (Label Security), and to protect data when it is archived to tape (Secure Backup);          

Oracle Database Vault, which is designed to pro-actively safeguard application data stored in the Oracle Database from being accessed by system
administrators and other privileged database users to meet regulatory mandates and improve data security;          

Oracle Audit Vault, which is designed to reduce the cost and complexity of compliance reporting and detection of unauthorized activities by automating
the collection, consolidation and analysis of enterprise audit data;          

Oracle Active Data Guard, which is designed to improve database performance and reliability by offloading resource-intensive activities from a
production database to one or more synchronized standby databases;          

Oracle Spatial and Oracle Locator, which are designed to manage geospatial data and provide the facilities to location enable business applications
with advanced geographic information system (GIS) capabilities; and          

Oracle In-Memory Database Cache, which is designed to improve application performance by caching or storing critical parts of Oracle Database in the
main memory of the application tier.         In addition to the four editions of the Oracle Database, we also offer a portfolio of
specialized database products to address particular customer requirements:       

MySQL, which we acquired as part of our acquisition of Sun, is one of the world s most popular open source databases that is designed to offer
developers a simple to use, horizontally-scalable database often used to power high-volume applications such as websites and web-based applications;          

Oracle TimesTen In-Memory Database, which is a memory-optimized relational database that is designed to deliver low latency and high throughput for
applications requiring real-time performance in industries such as communications, financial services and defense; and          

Oracle Berkeley DB, which is a family of open source, embeddable, non-relational databases that is designed to allow developers to incorporate a fast,
scalable and reliable database engine within their applications and devices.          Middleware    
  Oracle Fusion Middleware is a broad family of application infrastructure products that is designed to form a reliable and scalable foundation on which
customers can build, deploy, secure, access and integrate business applications and automate their business processes. Built on the Java technology platform, Oracle Fusion Middleware suites and products can be used as a foundation for custom,
packaged and composite applications.      Oracle Fusion Middleware is designed to protect customers  IT investments and work with both Oracle
and non-Oracle database, middleware and applications products through its  hot-pluggable  architecture (which enables customers to easily install and use Oracle Fusion Middleware products within their existing IT environments) and
adherence to industry standards such as Java Enterprise Edition (Java EE, formerly J2EE) and Business Process Execution Language (BPEL), among others. By using Oracle Fusion Middleware, we believe our customers can better adapt to business changes
rapidly, reduce their risks related to security and compliance, increase user productivity and drive better business decisions. Specifically, Oracle Fusion Middleware is designed to enable customers to integrate heterogeneous business applications,
automate business processes, scale applications to meet customer demand, simplify security and compliance, manage lifecycles of documents and get actionable, targeted business intelligence, while continuing to utilize their existing IT systems. In
addition, Oracle Fusion Middleware supports multiple development languages and tools, which allows         
   4   

Table of Contents  

developers to build and deploy web services, web sites, portals and web-based applications. Oracle Fusion Middleware is used to support Oracle applications, other enterprise applications,
independent software vendors that build their own applications and business processes that span multiple application environments.      Oracle
Fusion Middleware is available in various products and suites, including the following functional areas:       

Application Server and Application Grid;          

Service-Oriented Architecture and Business Process Management;      

Data Migration and Integration;          

Business Intelligence;          

Identity and Access Management;          

Content Management;          

Portals and User Interaction; and          

Development Tools.      
  Application Server and Application Grid      The
foundation of Oracle Fusion Middleware is Oracle WebLogic Server an application server that is compliant with the Java EE specification. Designed for grid computing, Oracle WebLogic Server incorporates clustering and caching technology, which
increases application reliability, performance, security and scalability. Oracle JRockit is a high performance Java Virtual Machine designed to run Java applications on multi-core processors with higher and more predictable performance. Oracle
Coherence is an in-memory data grid solution designed to reduce latency, and improve performance and scalability of business applications by allowing applications to access data in-memory. Oracle Tuxedo runs legacy, mainframe, and non-Java
applications written in the C, C++, and COBOL languages with transaction reliability, scale, and performance requirements. The addition of Oracle GlassFish Server from the acquisition of Sun enhances the value of Oracle Fusion Middleware for
developers by accelerating development practices and decreasing application time-to-market.      Service-Oriented Architecture Suite and Business
Process Management      Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) is a software development and architecture methodology that creates a modular,
re-usable approach to applications development; makes it easier to integrate systems with each other; and reduces the need for costly custom development. Oracle SOA Suite is a suite of middleware software products used to create, deploy, and manage
applications on a Service-Oriented Architecture including Oracle JDeveloper, Oracle BPEL Process Manager, Oracle Web Services Manager, Oracle Business Rules, Oracle Business Activity Monitoring, and Oracle Service Bus. Oracle Business Process
Management Suite is a suite of software designed to enable business and IT professionals to design, implement, automate, and evolve business processes and workflow within and across organizations. Oracle SOA Governance is designed to maintain the
security and integrity of our customers  SOA deployments.      Data Migration and Integration   
  Oracle s Data Integration offerings consist of Oracle GoldenGate, Oracle Data Integrator, and Oracle Data Quality solutions. Oracle GoldenGate is a
high performance data movement and continuous availability solution designed to capture transaction records on one system and to move and apply them to other systems with very low impact on system and network performance. Oracle Data Integrator is
an extract-transform-load (ETL) solution that enables users to extract data from one system, transform it from the source system s format to a target system s format, and load it into the target system (such as a data warehouse). Oracle
Data Quality enables users to profile data and to clean it using a variety of automated matching and cleansing rules making the data more reliable and more accurate.   
     
   5   

Table of Contents  

   Business Intelligence   
  Oracle Business Intelligence is a comprehensive set of analytic products designed to provide customers with the information they need to make better
business decisions. Oracle s Business Intelligence technology consists of Oracle BI Suite Enterprise Edition, a comprehensive query and analysis server; Oracle Essbase, an online analytical processing (OLAP) server; Oracle BI Publisher, a
self-service production and operational reporting tool; and Oracle Real-Time Decisions, a real-time data classification and optimization solution. Users can access these tools from a variety of user interfaces including browser-based interactive
dashboards; ad hoc query and analysis; proactive detection and alerts integrated with e-mail; Microsoft Office integration including support for Excel, Word, and PowerPoint; and mobile analytics for mobile and smart phones.   
  Identity and Access Management      Oracle s
Identity and Access Management products are designed to enable customers to manage internal and external users, secure corporate information from potential threats and streamline compliance initiatives while lowering the total cost of their security
and compliance initiatives. Our offerings include a lightweight directory access protocol (LDAP) directory service to store and manage user identities and policies; identity provisioning to provision users and roles in multiple enterprise
applications and systems; access management to manage access control and entitlements for customers, partners, and employees; and identity analytics products to audit and identify users attempting to access systems for which they are not authorized.
     Content Management      Oracle s
Content Management Suite is an enterprise content management platform allowing users to capture, manage, and publish information that is either unstructured, not easily readable or has not been stored, including documents, images, audio, video, and
a wide variety of other forms of digital content. Our Content Management Suite provides customers with a highly scalable document management repository; web content management to publish information to websites and portals; digital asset management
to manage and deliver digital content; imaging and process management to capture and process paper documents and document related business processes; and records management to archive and retain documents and electronic records. Oracle Content
Management is integrated with business applications to automatically capture and process electronic and paper documents such as invoices, accounts receivable receipts, and sales order documents from these applications.   
  Portals and User Interaction      Oracle WebCenter
Suite is a standards-based enterprise portal product that enables external and employee users to efficiently find the information they need from websites and business applications within the organization; to create collaborative websites, online
workspaces, discussion forums, integrated real-time presence and web conferencing to share information with others; and to use a variety of emerging technologies such as really simple syndication (RSS) feeds, tag clouds, linking and search to
personalize information delivery. Oracle WebCenter Suite can be used to build a variety of web-based systems including extranet websites, intranet portals, task-oriented collaborative applications, and team communities.   
  Developer Tools      Oracle JDeveloper is an
integrated software environment that is designed to facilitate rapid development of a variety of different types of applications using Oracle Fusion Middleware and popular open source technologies. Oracle JDeveloper provides support for developing
Java applications; web services, composite SOA applications and business processes; rich user interfaces using AJAX/DHTML and Flash technologies; and websites using popular scripting languages. Oracle JDeveloper also provides comprehensive
application lifecycle management facilities including modeling, building, debugging, unit testing, profiling, and optimizing applications and is integrated with the Oracle Application Development Framework, which provides a declarative framework for
building business applications, and popular open source tools including Eclipse and NetBeans.      We also offer a selection of products that are
complementary to our database and middleware products, including Oracle Enterprise Manager.         
   6   

Table of Contents  

   Oracle Enterprise Manager   
  Oracle Enterprise Manager is Oracle s unified enterprise IT management solution designed to provide integrated systems management; to manage the
entire Oracle software stack from applications to disk, and to deliver business-driven applications management. Oracle Enterprise Manager manages all Oracle software products including Oracle Enterprise Linux, Oracle VM, Oracle Database, Fusion
Middleware, and business applications. Enterprise Manager also manages Oracle software across its entire lifecycle, including installing and configuring the software; monitoring service levels and performance; diagnosing and troubleshooting
problems; configuring and patching software; and providing change management in a unified way across groups of computers or grids and across physical and virtualized environments. We are also integrating Sun s OpsCenter, a product designed by
Sun to manage the Solaris operating system, firmware, and storage, with Oracle Enterprise Manager to provide a single management solution to manage hardware and software.   
  Oracle Fusion Middleware products and applications are built on our Java technology platform.   
  Java      Java is the computer industry s most
widely-used software development language and is viewed as a global standard. For customers, the Java platform is designed to enable a variety of compatible applications, independent of their vendor, and a global community of Java developers,
support engineers, and knowledge bases which can help customers reduce the risk and time to deployment as well as the ongoing cost of ownership and maintenance. Java technology is designed to allow developers and vendors to write software on one
platform and run it on many different platforms, independent of operating system and hardware architecture. Java technology is licensed to run applications for use in a broad range of systems   embedded devices; SIM cards; mobile phones and
smart-phones; IP and Blu-Ray TVs; desktop computers; and server class computers. We expect to continue to innovate and invest in Java technology for the benefit of customers and the Java community.   
   Applications Software       Our applications
software offerings are designed using an open, integrated architecture to manage and automate customers  core business functions, support customer choice, help reduce risk, cost and complexity of customers  IT infrastructures, and enable
customers to differentiate their businesses using our technologies. Through a focused strategy of investments in organic research and development and strategic acquisitions, we also provide industry-specific solutions for customers in over 20
industries, including communications, engineering and construction, financial services, health services, manufacturing, public sector, retail and utilities. New software license revenues from applications software represented 28% of our new software
license revenues in both fiscal 2010 and 2009 and 32% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2008.      Central to our applications strategy is
our Applications Unlimited program, which is our commitment to offer customers that purchase software license updates and product support contracts a choice as to when they wish to upgrade to the next generation of the products they own. Until our
customers reach a decision to upgrade to the next generation of the products they own, we protect their investments in their applications by offering them the ability to purchase software license updates and product support contracts for their
existing products. Our applications are designed to help customers extend the benefits of their IT investments in our applications, to reduce their investment risk, and to support their evolution to the next generation of enterprise software that
best fits their needs. For example, our Oracle Application Integration Architecture provides an open framework for creating adaptable, cross-application business processes. In addition, our applications software products are offered as integrated
suites or available on a component basis, and all are built on open architectures that are designed for flexible configuration and open, multi-vendor integration. Our applications are also available in multiple languages and support a broad range of
location specific requirements, enabling companies to support both global and local business practices and legal requirements.      We strive to
protect our customers  investments in Oracle applications by delivering new product releases that incorporate customer-specific and industry-specific innovations across product lines. Since announcing our Applications Unlimited program, we have
delivered major releases on all applications product lines. Our         
   7   

Table of Contents  

applications software products combine business functionality with innovative technologies such as role-based analytics, secure search, identity management, self-service and workflow to deliver
adaptive industry processes, business intelligence and insights, and optimal end-user productivity. Our applications software products enable efficient management of core business functions, including:   

Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP);          

Customer Relationship Management (CRM);          

Enterprise Performance Management (EPM);          

Supply Chain Management (SCM);          

Business Intelligence Applications (Analytic Applications);      

Enterprise Project Portfolio Management (EPPM); and          

Industry-Specific Applications.      
  Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)      Companies
use our ERP applications to automate and integrate a variety of their key global business processes, including: supply chain planning, manufacturing, logistics, order fulfillment, asset lifecycle management, purchasing, accounts receivable and
payable, general ledger, cash and treasury management, travel and expense management, human resources, payroll, benefits, and talent management. Our ERP applications combine business functionality with innovative technologies such as self-service
applications to enable companies to lower the cost of their business operations by providing their customers, suppliers and employees with self-service access to both transaction processing and critical business information.   
  Customer Relationship Management (CRM)      We
offer a suite of CRM applications that help our customers manage their selling processes more efficiently, integrate marketing campaigns and content into their selling processes more effectively, and deliver high quality customer service across
multiple access channels, including call centers, websites and mobile devices. Our CRM products also provide many industry-specific features designed to support the specialized needs of users in key sectors, such as communications, high technology,
life sciences, financial services, insurance, consumer products, and the public sector.      Enterprise Performance Management (EPM)   
  We offer a suite of EPM applications to automate, integrate, and administer a broad range of financial and operational management processes within an
organization. Our EPM applications enable organizations to define and model their financial structure; to define their operating plans and manage financial budgets; to allocate indirect revenues and costs to better understand business unit
profitability; to consolidate and aggregate financial results from a variety of systems; and to manage the financial close and statutory reporting processes. Our EPM applications are integrated with ERP applications; enable improved business
decision making; and align operational processes with an organization s financial strategy.      Supply Chain Management (SCM)   
  We offer a comprehensive set of SCM solutions that span from demand management, sales and operations planning and supply chain planning to product
development, manufacturing, transportation and warehouse management. Customers can use Oracle SCM products to predict demand and market requirements, manage the lifecycle of their products, innovate in response to volatile market conditions, align
operations across global networks and deploy lean, mixed-mode manufacturing with integrated manufacturing execution systems that meet both discrete and process requirements.   
  Business Intelligence Applications (Analytic Applications)   
  We also provide packaged Business Intelligence Applications for ERP, SCM, and CRM processes and industry-specific analytic applications with packaged data
models; packaged ETL processes; packaged key performance         
   8   

Table of Contents  

indicators (KPIs); and packaged dashboards and scorecards to deliver insight that is tailored for business processes in 20 industries. Our Business Intelligence Applications are built on
Oracle s Business Intelligence technology and source data from multiple versions of Oracle CRM, ERP, EPM, and SCM applications as well as from non-Oracle ERP applications. Our EPM and Business Intelligence Applications together with our
Business Intelligence technology allow us to offer our customers an integrated solution spanning planning and budgeting; financial management; operational analytics; and reporting.   
  Enterprise Project Portfolio Management (EPPM)   
  Our EPPM software solutions target project-intensive industries such as engineering and construction, aerospace and defense, utilities, oil and gas,
manufacturing, professional services and project-intensive departments within other industries. Our EPPM solutions help companies propose, prioritize and select project investments and plan, manage and control the most complex projects and project
portfolios.      Industry-Specific Applications   
  Our applications can be tailored to offer customers a variety of industry-specific solutions. As a part of our strategy, we strive to ensure that our
applications portfolio addresses the major industry-influenced technology challenges of customers in key industries that we view as strategic to our future growth, including banking and financial services, communications, education, engineering and
construction, health sciences, insurance, manufacturing, professional services, public sector, retail and utilities.        Software License
Updates and Product Support        We seek to protect and enhance our customers  current investments in Oracle software by offering
proactive and personalized support services, including our Lifetime Support policy, and unspecified product enhancements and upgrades. Software license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance
releases and patches released during the term of the support period. Product support includes internet and telephone access to technical support personnel located in our global support centers, as well as internet access to technical content through
 My Oracle Support . Software license updates and product support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net new software license fees. Substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support
contracts when they acquire new software licenses and renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. Our software license updates and product support revenues represented 49%, 50% and 46% of our total revenues in fiscal
2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.        Hardware Systems Business     
  As a result of our acquisition of Sun in January 2010, we entered into a new hardware systems business. Our hardware systems business consists of two
operating segments: hardware systems products and hardware systems support.        Hardware Systems Products     
  Our customers demand a broad set of hardware systems solutions to manage growing amounts of data and computational requirements, to meet increasing
compliance and regulatory demands, and to reduce energy, space, and operational costs. To meet these demands, we have a wide variety of innovative hardware systems offerings, including servers and storage products, networking components, operating
systems and other hardware-related software. Our hardware systems products are designed to be  open,  or to work in customer environments that may include other Oracle or non-Oracle hardware or software components. We have also designed
our hardware systems products to create performance and operational cost advantages for customers when they use our hardware and software together. By combining our server and storage hardware with our software, our open, integrated products better
address customer requirements for performance, scalability, reliability, security, ease of management and lower total cost of ownership. Our hardware systems products represented 6% of our total revenues in fiscal 2010.   
     
   9   

Table of Contents  

    Servers    
  We offer a wide range of server systems using our SPARC microprocessor. Our SPARC servers are differentiated by their size, cost, form factor or
configuration (rack, blade or stand-alone systems) and customer environments that they target (general purpose or specialized systems). Our mid- and large-size servers are designed to offer greater performance and lower total cost of ownership than
mainframe systems for business critical applications and for customers having more computationally intensive needs. Our SPARC servers run the Solaris operating system and are designed for the most demanding mission critical enterprise environments
at any scale. We have a long-standing relationship with Fujitsu Limited for the development, manufacturing and marketing of certain of our SPARC server components and products.   
  We also offer a wide range of x86 servers differentiated by the same features as our SPARC servers. These x86 systems are primarily based on
microprocessor platforms from Intel Corporation (Intel) and are also compatible with Solaris, Linux, Windows and other operating systems.      We
offer a line of products aimed at the unique needs of original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and network equipment providers (NEPs). Rack-optimized systems and our blade product offerings combine high-density hardware architecture and system
management software that OEMs find particularly useful in building their own solution architectures. Our NEP-certified Sun Netra systems are designed to meet the specialized needs of NEPs.   
   Storage      Our broad range of storage
products are designed to securely manage, protect, archive and restore customers  mission critical data assets and consist of tape, disk, hardware-related software and networking for mainframe and open systems environments. Our storage
solutions are designed to improve data availability by providing fast data access and dynamic data protection for restoration and secure archiving for compliance.   
  Our tape storage product line includes StorageTEK libraries, drives, virtualization systems, media and device software. These products are intended to
provide robust solutions for both long-term preservation and near-term protection, of customer data at a lower total cost of ownership.      Our
disk storage product lines include data center arrays, mid-range arrays, unified storage, network attached storage, and entry level systems. We also offer software for management and efficient resource utilization and virtualization of storage
resources.       Solaris Operating System and Other Hardware-Related Software    
  Our Solaris operating system is designed to provide a more reliable, secure and scalable operating system environment than other enterprise operating
systems through significant core feature development in kernel, networking, security, and file system technologies as well as close integration with hardware features. This provides us with an ability to combine Solaris with our own hardware
components to achieve certain performance and efficiency advantages in comparison to our competitors. The Solaris operating system is based on the Unix operating system, but is unique among Unix systems in that it is available on our SPARC servers
and x86 servers that include microprocessors from either Intel or Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. We also support Solaris deployed on other companies  hardware products. In addition to Solaris, we also develop a range of hardware-related software,
including development tools, compilers, management tools for servers and storage, diagnostic tools, virtualization, and file systems.   
   Oracle Exadata       Oracle Exadata is
designed to be a family of integrated software and hardware products that combine our storage software with our server, storage, and networking components to provide our customers with improved performance at a lower total cost of ownership. For
example, our current Oracle Database Machine offers improved performance, scalability and reliability through an integrated architecture featuring increased data bandwidth and localized query processing. Additional options are also available,
including Oracle Exadata Hybrid Columnar Compression, which is designed to reduce the disk space required for primary, standby and backup databases.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

    Networking    
  We create networking components and products designed to efficiently connect and deploy server and storage clusters in data centers. The development of
our networking products includes both hardware and software development for the Infiniband and Ethernet technologies that are used with our server and storage products and are integrated into our management tools.   
    Hardware Systems Support     
  Customers that purchase our hardware systems products may also elect to purchase our hardware systems support offerings. Our hardware systems support
offerings provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of our systems and storage products, such as Solaris, and can include product repairs, maintenance services, and technical support
services. We are focusing on identifying hardware systems support processes that are intended to proactively identify and solve quality issues and to increase the amount of new hardware systems support contracts sold in connection with the sales of
our hardware systems products. Hardware systems support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware systems products fees. Our hardware systems support revenues represented 3% of our total revenues in fiscal 2010.   
    Services Business        Our services
business consists of consulting, On Demand and education. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we expanded and enhanced our customer base and services offerings.   
    Consulting        Oracle Consulting is
designed to help our customers more successfully deploy our products. Our consulting services include: enterprise architecture design and implementation; business/IT strategy alignment; business process simplification; solution integration; and
product implementation, enhancements, and upgrades. These services help our customers achieve their business goals, manage their total cost of ownership and reduce the risk associated with their product deployment. Oracle Consulting employs
consulting professionals globally to engage our customers directly, as well as to provide specialized expertise to our global systems integrator partners. Oracle Consulting utilizes a global blended delivery model to achieve economies of scale for
our customers. This global delivery model consists of onsite consultants within the customer s local geography as well as consultants in our global delivery and solution centers. Consulting revenues represented 10%, 14%, and 15% of total
revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.        On Demand     
  On Demand includes our Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer Services offerings. Oracle On Demand is designed to provide multi-featured software and
hardware management and maintenance services for customers that are delivered at our data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-site at customer facilities. Advanced Customer Services consists of solution lifecycle
management services, database and application management services, industry-specific solution support centers, and remote and on-site expert services. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we increased the volume and breadth of our Advanced
Customer Services offerings, including onsite and remote operations management, hardware systems expert services, and packaged offerings that support the installation and optimization of Sun systems. We believe that our On Demand offerings provide
our customers flexibility in how they manage their IT environments and an additional opportunity to lower their total cost of ownership and can therefore provide us with a competitive advantage. On Demand revenues represented 3% of total revenues in
each of fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008.        Education     
  We provide training to customers, partners and employees as a part of our mission of accelerating the adoption and use of our software and hardware
products and to create opportunities to grow our product revenues. Our training is provided through a variety of formats, including instructor-led classes at our education centers, live   
     
   11   

Table of Contents  

virtual training, self-paced online training, training via CD-ROM, private events and custom training. Our live virtual class offerings allow students anywhere in the world to receive real-time,
interactive training online. In addition, we also offer a certification program certifying database administrators, developers, implementers, consultants and architects. Education revenues represented 1% of our total revenues in fiscal 2010 and 2%
of total revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively.       Marketing and Sales    
  We directly market and sell our products and services primarily through our subsidiary sales and service organizations to businesses of many sizes and in
many industries, government agencies and educational institutions. We also market, and sell our products through indirect channels. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 or 2008.   
  In the United States, our sales and service employees are based in our headquarters and in field offices throughout the country. Outside the United
States, our international subsidiaries license and support our products in their local countries as well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate through a direct sales subsidiary. Our geographic coverage allows us to draw on
business and technical expertise from a global workforce, provides stability to our operations and revenue streams to offset geography-specific economic trends and offers us an opportunity to take advantage of new markets for our products. A summary
of our domestic and international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      We
also market our products worldwide through indirect channels. The companies that comprise our indirect channel network are members of the Oracle Partner Network. The Oracle Partner Network is a global program that manages our business relationships
with a large, broad-based network of companies, including independent software and hardware vendors, system integrators and resellers who deliver innovative solutions and services based upon our products. By offering our partners access to our
premier products, educational information, technical services, marketing and sales support, the Oracle Partner Network program extends our market reach by providing our partners with the resources they need to be successful in delivering solutions
to customers globally. Prior to our acquisition of Sun, the majority of Sun s hardware systems products were sold through indirect channels. Although we plan to continue to sell our hardware products through indirect channels, including
independent distributors and value added resellers, we have begun enhancing direct sales coverage for our hardware systems products and intend that our direct sales force will sell proportionately more of our hardware systems products in the future
than they do currently.        Seasonality and Cyclicality     
  Our quarterly results reflect distinct seasonality in the sale of our products and services. Our total revenues and operating margins are typically
highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. General economic conditions also have an impact on our business and financial results. The markets in which we sell our products and services have, at times, experienced
weak economic conditions that have negatively affected our revenues. See  Selected Quarterly Financial Data  in Item 7 of this Annual Report for a more complete description of the seasonality and cyclicality of our revenues, expenses
and margins.       Competition       We
face intense competition in all aspects of our business. The nature of the IT industry creates a competitive landscape that is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as customer demands and competitive
pressures otherwise change.      Our customers are demanding less complexity and lower total cost in the implementation, sourcing, integration and
ongoing maintenance of their enterprise software and hardware systems, which has led increasingly to our product offerings being viewed as a  stack  of software and hardware designed to work together in a standards-compliant
environment from  Applications to Disk.  Our enterprise software and hardware offerings compete directly with some offerings from the most competitive companies in the world, including Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft), IBM
Corporation (IBM), Hewlett Packard Company (HP), SAP AG, and Intel, as well as many         
   12   

Table of Contents  

others. In addition, the low barriers to entry in many of our market segments regularly introduce new technologies and new and growing competitors to challenge our offerings. Our competitors
range from companies offering broad IT solutions across many of our lines of business to vendors providing point solutions, or offerings focused on a specific functionality, product area or industry. In addition, as we expand into new market
segments, we will face increased competition as we will compete with existing competitors, as well as firms that may be partners in other areas of our business and other firms with whom we have not previously competed. Moreover, we or our
competitors may take certain strategic actions including acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures, or repositioning of product lines which invite even greater competition in one or more product categories.   
  Key competitive factors in each of the segments in which we currently compete and may compete in the future include: total cost of ownership, performance,
scalability, reliability, security, functionality, efficiency, ease of management and quality of technical support. Our product sales (and the relative strength of our products versus those of our competitors) are also directly and indirectly
affected by the following, among other things:       

the broader  platform  competition between our industry standard Java technology platform and the .NET programming environment of Microsoft;

operating system competition among, primarily, our Solaris operating system, Microsoft s Windows Server, Unix (including HP-UX from HP and AIX
from IBM) and Linux;          

the adoption of commodity servers and microprocessors;      

the adoption of open source alternatives to commercial software by enterprise software customers;      

the adoption of Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), hosted or  cloud  software offerings;      

products, features and functionality developed internally by customers and their IT staff;      

products, features or functionality customized and implemented for customers by consultants, systems integrators or other third parties; and

attractiveness of offerings from business processing outsourcers.      
  For more information about the competitive risks we face, refer to Item 1A.  Risk Factors.    
   Manufacturing       To produce our hardware
systems products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party manufacturing partners. Our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of final assembly, test and quality control of our enterprise and data
center servers and storage systems. For all other manufacturing, we rely on third party manufacturing partners. We distribute most of our hardware systems products either from our facilities or partner facilities. One of our main goals is to reduce
costs by simplifying our manufacturing processes through increased standardization of components across product types, through a reduction of the number of assembly and distribution centers we rely on and through our transition to a
 build-to-order  process in which products are built only after customers have placed firm orders. Production of our hardware products requires that we purchase materials, supplies, product subassemblies and full assemblies from a number
of vendors. For most of our hardware products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such sources are readily available. However, we do rely on sole sources for certain of our hardware products. For example, we have a long-standing
relationship with Fujitsu Limited for the development, manufacturing and marketing of certain of our SPARC server components and products. Refer to  Risk Factors  included in Item 1A. of this Annual Report for additional discussion of
the challenges we encounter with respect to the sources and availability of supplies for our products and the related risks to our business.   
   Research and Development       We develop the
substantial majority of our products internally. In addition, we have extended our product offerings and intellectual property through acquisitions of businesses and technologies. We also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain
circumstances. Internal development allows us to maintain technical control over the design and development of our products. We have a number of United States and foreign patents   
     
   13   

Table of Contents  

and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. While we believe that our patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to any of our
principal business segments. Research and development expenditures were $3.3 billion, $2.8 billion and $2.7 billion, in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, or 12% of total revenues in each of the aforementioned fiscal years. Rapid
technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the software and hardware
markets in which we compete. We plan on continuing to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain and improve our current product offerings.   
   Employees       As of May 31, 2010, we
employed approximately 105,000 full-time employees, including approximately 24,000 in sales and marketing, approximately 9,000 in software license updates and product support, approximately 1,000 in the manufacturing of our hardware systems
products, approximately 5,000 in hardware systems support, approximately 26,000 in services, approximately 28,000 in research and development and approximately 12,000 in general and administrative positions. Of these employees, approximately 39,000
were located in the United States and approximately 66,000 were employed internationally. None of our employees in the United States is represented by a labor union; however, in certain foreign subsidiaries workers  councils represent our
employees.       Available Information    
  Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our Investor Relations web site at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it
to, the SEC. The information posted on our web site is not incorporated into this Annual Report.       Executive Officers of the Registrant  
     Our executive officers are listed below.       

Name    
      
     Office(s)     
 
    Lawrence J. Ellison   
      
  Chief Executive Officer and Director   
 
    Jeffrey O. Henley   
      
  Chairman of the Board of Directors   
 
    Safra A. Catz   
      
  President and Director   
 
    Charles E. Phillips, Jr.   
      
  President and Director   
 
    Keith G. Block   
      
  Executive Vice President, North America Sales and Consulting   
 
    Jeff Epstein   
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
 
    John Fowler   
      
  Executive Vice President, Systems   
 
    Thomas Kurian   
      
  Executive Vice President, Product Development   
 
    Loic Le Guisquet   
      
    Executive Vice President, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) Sales and Consulting    
 
    Luiz Meisler   
      
  Executive Vice President, Latin America Sales and Consulting   
 
    Juergen Rottler   
      
  Executive Vice President, Oracle Customer Services   
 
    Charles A. Rozwat   
      
  Executive Vice President   
 
    Mike Splain   
      
  Executive Vice President, Microelectronics Group   
 
    Derek H. Williams   
      
  Executive Vice President, Japan Sales and Consulting   
 
    Dorian E. Daley   
      
  Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary   
 
    William Corey West   
      
  Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer    
  Mr. Ellison, 65, has been Chief Executive Officer and a Director since he founded Oracle in June 1977. He served as Chairman of the Board from May
1995 to January 2004.      Mr. Henley, 65, has served as the Chairman of the Board since January 2004 and as a Director since June 1995. He
served as an Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from March 1991 to July 2004.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

   Ms. Catz, 48, has been a President since January 2004 and has served as a Director since October 2001.
She was Chief Financial Officer from November 2005 until September 2008 and Interim Chief Financial Officer from April 2005 until July 2005. She served as an Executive Vice President from November 1999 to January 2004 and Senior Vice President from
April 1999 to October 1999. She also serves as a director of HSBC Holdings plc.      Mr. Phillips, 51, has been a President and has served as
a Director since January 2004. He served as Executive Vice President, Strategy, Partnerships, and Business Development, from May 2003 to January 2004. He also serves as a director of Viacom, Inc.   
  Mr. Block, 49, has been Executive Vice President, North America Sales and Consulting since September 2002. He served as Executive Vice President of
North America Consulting from February to September of 2002. He served as Senior Vice President of North America Commercial Consulting and Global Service Lines from June 1999 until January 2002. He also held various other positions with us since
joining Oracle in 1985.      Mr. Epstein, 53, has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since September 2008. Prior to
joining us, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Oberon Media, Inc., a privately held internet game technology provider and publisher from April 2007 to June 2008. From June 2005 until its sale in
March 2007, Mr. Epstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of ADVO, Inc., a direct mail media company. Mr. Epstein was a member of the Board of Directors of Revonet, Inc., a business-to-business marketing and
database company, from January 2004 to December 2005, Chairman of the Board from December 2004 to December 2005 and the Acting President and Chief Executive Officer from June 2004 through December 2004. Mr. Epstein
also serves as a director of priceline.com Incorporated and serves on the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Stanford University Hospital.   
  Mr. Fowler, 49, has been Executive Vice President, Systems since February 2010. Prior to joining us, Mr. Fowler served as Sun Microsystems,
Inc. s Executive Vice President, Systems Group from May 2006 to February 2010, as Executive Vice President, Network Systems Group from May 2004 to May 2006, as Chief Technology Officer, Software Group from July 2002 to May 2004 and Director,
Corporate Development from July 2000 to July 2002.      Mr. Kurian, 43, has been Executive Vice President, Product Development since July
2009. He served as Senior Vice President of Development from February 2001 until July 2009. Mr. Kurian worked in Oracle Server Technologies as Vice President of Development from March 1999 until February 2001. He also held various other
positions with us since joining Oracle in 1996.      Mr. Le Guisquet, 48, has been Executive Vice President, Europe, Middle East and Africa
(EMEA) Sales and Consulting since December 2008. He served as Senior Vice President, Europe Applications from June 2006 until November 2008. He served as Senior Vice President, Oracle Customer Relationship Management EMEA from January 2006 until
June 2006. He served as Senior Vice President, EMEA Consulting from August 2003 until January 2006. He also held various other EMEA regional executive positions with us since January 1990.   
  Mr. Meisler, 57, has been Executive Vice President, Latin America Sales and Consulting since July 2008. He served as Senior Vice President, Latin
America Sales and Consulting from December 2001 to July 2008; as Vice President, Latin America Sales and Consulting from June 2001 to December 2001; and as Managing Director of Oracle Brazil from January 2000 to May 2001. He served as Vice
President, Latin America Consulting from June 1999 to January 2000 and as Vice President, Oracle Brazil Consulting from March 1998 to May 1999.   
  Mr. Rottler, 43, has been Executive Vice President, Oracle Customer Services since September 2006. He was Executive Vice President, Oracle Support
and Oracle On Demand, from January 2005 to September 2006 and was Executive Vice President, Oracle On Demand, from September 2004 to January 2005.   
  Mr. Rozwat, 62, has served as Executive Vice President, Product Development from October 2007 to July 2009, as Executive Vice President, Server
Technologies from November 1999 to October 2007 and as Senior Vice President, Database Server from December 1996 to October 1999. He served as Vice President of Development from December 1994 to November 1996.   
  Mr. Splain, 53, has been Executive Vice President, Microelectronics Group since February 2010. Prior to joining us, Mr. Splain served as
Sun s Executive Vice President, Microelectronics from April 2008 to February 2010, as         
   15   

Table of Contents  

Chief Engineer from June 2006 to February 2010, as Chief Technology Officer, Systems Group from June 2006 to April 2008, Chief Technology Officer, Scalable Systems from March 2004 to June 2006,
and Chief Technology Officer, Processor and Network Products from June 2002 to March 2004.      Mr. Williams, 65, has been Executive Vice
President, Japan Sales and Consulting since June 2008 and was Executive Vice President, Asia Pacific Sales and Consulting from October 2000 to May 2008. He served as Senior Vice President, Asia Pacific from July 1993 to October 2000 and as Vice
President, Asia Pacific from April 1991 to July 1993. He joined Oracle United Kingdom in October 1988 and served as Regional Director, Strategic Accounts from October 1988 to April 1991.   
  Ms. Daley, 51, has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since October 2007. She served as Vice President, Legal, Associate
General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from June 2004 to October 2007, as Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from October 2001 to June 2004, and as Associate General Counsel from February 2001 to October 2001. She joined
Oracle s Legal Department in 1992.      Mr. West, 48, has been Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer
since February 2008 and was Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from April 2007 to February 2008. Prior to joining us, he served as Intuit Inc. s Director of Accounting from August 2005 to March 2007, as The Gap,
Inc. s Assistant Controller from April 2005 to August 2005, and as Vice President, Finance, at Cadence Design Systems, Inc. s product business from June 2001 to April 2005. He also spent 14 years with Arthur Andersen LLP, most
recently as a partner.         Item 1A.    Risk Factors    
  We operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot
control or predict. The following discussion, as well as our  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  discussion in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7), highlights some of
these risks. The risks described below are not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities.   
    Economic, political and market conditions, including the recent recession and global economic crisis, can adversely affect our business, results of
operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price.      Our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and
that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. These include:       

general economic and business conditions;          

currency exchange rate fluctuations;          

the overall demand for enterprise software, hardware systems and services;      

governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; and      

general political developments.      
  The recent recession and global economic crisis caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of
default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. These macroeconomic developments negatively affected, and could continue to negatively affect, our business, operating results or financial condition which,
in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. A general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce
their IT budgets or be unable to fund software, hardware systems or services purchases, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for
previously purchased products and services.      In some financial markets, institutions may decrease or discontinue their purchase of the
long-term customer financing contracts that we have traditionally sold on a non-recourse basis. As a result, we may hold more of these contracts ourselves or require more customers to purchase our products and services on a cash basis.   
     
   16   

Table of Contents  

   In addition, terrorist attacks around the world, the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and the potential for
other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial
condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. These factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of new software licenses, hardware systems products, hardware systems support and related services and, to a lesser extent,
also may affect our renewal rates for software license updates and product support.        We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due
to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors.      Our revenues, and particularly our new software license revenues and hardware systems products revenues, are difficult to forecast, and, as a result, our quarterly
operating results can fluctuate substantially. Our limited experience with managing our new hardware business and forecasting its future financial results creates additional challenges with our forecasting processes.   
  We use a  pipeline  system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our sales personnel monitor the status of
all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. These estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. Our pipeline estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a
particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the  conversion rate  or  closure rate  of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. A contraction in the conversion rate, or in the
pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results of operations. In particular, a slowdown in IT spending or economic conditions generally can unexpectedly reduce the conversion rate in
particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. The conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more
favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate and execute these contracts in a timely manner. In addition, for newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for
at least one or two quarters following the acquisition, and potentially longer with respect to our acquisition of Sun. Conversion rates post-acquisition may be quite different from the acquired companies  historical conversion rates.
Differences in conversion rates can also be affected by changes in our business practices that we implement with our newly acquired companies that may affect customer behavior.   
  A substantial portion of our new software license revenue contracts and hardware systems products contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter
and a significant percentage of these are large orders. Because a significant portion of our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. The number of
large new software license transactions, and to a lesser extent hardware systems products transactions, also increases the risk of fluctuations in our quarterly results because a delay in even a small number of these transactions could cause our
quarterly revenues and profitability to fall significantly short of our predictions.        We may not achieve our financial forecasts with
respect to our acquisition of Sun or our entrance into a new hardware systems business, or the achievement of such forecasts may take longer than expected. Our profitability could decline if we do not manage the risks associated with our acquisition
and integration of Sun.      The acquisition and ongoing integration of Sun into Oracle may adversely affect our profitability if we do not manage the associated risks. We may not achieve the anticipated synergies, cost
savings, customer and partner advantages and benefits or realize our estimated revenue, profit or other financial projections in a timely manner or at all due to a number of factors, including:   

Prior to the acquisition of Sun, we had limited or no direct experience in managing certain aspects of a hardware systems business. While we plan to
retain a large number of Sun engineers, salespeople and other employees with experience in managing this business, our inexperience or the unplanned departures of some important employees could adversely impact our ability to successfully manage our
hardware systems business, which could adversely impact our ability to realize the forecasts for our hardware systems business and its results of operations.      
     
   17   

Table of Contents  

Our plans to reduce the costs associated with managing our hardware systems business, through expected efficiencies from, among other things,
(i) changes in supply chain processes or in customer services and support or (ii) eliminations of redundancies in personnel, facilities or other services, may not be realized or completed within the expected time frame, if at all, or the
anticipated cost savings may be less than what we forecast.          

We may not be able to increase sales of hardware systems support contracts, which could result in lower hardware systems or hardware systems support
revenues and profitability, or slower than expected growth of such revenues and profitability.          

Sun s hardware systems business historically has had higher expenses as a percentage of revenues, and thus has been less profitable, than our
standalone software business. Upon completion of our acquisition of Sun, we have reported, and may continue to report, lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues, and our profit margin levels prior to our acquisition of Sun may not be
sustainable.          

We face a greater risk of potential write-downs and impairments of inventory, higher warranty expenses than we had historically encountered in our
existing software and services businesses, and higher amortization from, and potential impairment of, intangible assets associated with our hardware systems business. Any of these items could result in material charges and adversely affect our
operating results.          

Our senior management s attention will be diverted from our software business to our hardware systems business, which may be disruptive to our
software business or the overall management of Oracle.           Our success depends upon our ability to develop new products
and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services.      Rapid technological advances and evolving standards in computer hardware and software development and
communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the enterprise software and hardware systems markets in which we compete. If we are unable to
develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, or to enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet market demand, customers may not buy new
software licenses or hardware systems products or purchase or renew software license updates and product support or hardware systems support contracts. Renewals of these support contracts are important to the growth of our business. In addition, IT
standards from both consortia and formal standards-setting forums as well as de facto marketplace standards are rapidly evolving. We cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete
effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas.      We are currently building and testing the next generation of our applications
software offerings, which are being designed to unify the best-of-business functional capabilities from all of our applications on a modern Internet-based middleware technology foundation. We have also recently designed and built the Sun Oracle
Database Machine, a fast database warehousing machine that runs online transaction processing applications. If we do not continue to develop and release these or other new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames, if
there is a delay in market acceptance of a new, enhanced or acquired product line or service, if we do not timely optimize complementary product lines and services or if we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired product lines or
services, our business may be adversely affected.        Our strategy of transitioning from Sun s indirect sales model to our mixed direct
and indirect sales model may not succeed and could result in lower hardware systems revenues or profits.     Disruptions to our software indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results.      Prior
to our acquisition of Sun, the majority of Sun s hardware systems products were sold through indirect channels. Although we plan to continue to sell our hardware products through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value
added resellers, we have begun enhancing direct sales coverage for our hardware products and intend that our direct sales force will sell a larger portion of our hardware products in the future than they do now. These direct sales efforts, however,
may not be successful. Our relationships with some of our channel partners may deteriorate because we         
   18   

Table of Contents  

are reducing our reliance on some of these partners for sales of our hardware products, are modifying our approach and timing to the manufacturing of our products and are altering certain of
Sun s legacy business practices with these channel partners, which could result in reduced demand from the channel partners or certain customer segments serviced by these channel partners. Some hardware systems revenues from channel partners
may not be replaced by revenues generated from our own sales personnel or be replaced as quickly as we expect. In addition, we may not be able to hire qualified hardware systems salespeople, sales consultants and other personnel for our direct sales
model at the rate or in the numbers we need to generate the hardware systems revenues and profit margins we have projected for future periods. Even if we can meet our hiring needs, these salespeople may not be able to achieve our sales forecasts for
our hardware systems business. If we experience any of these risks, our hardware systems revenues or profits may decline.      Our software
indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. Our relationships with these channel
participants are important elements of our software marketing and sales efforts. Our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to
deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant or if the financial condition of our channel participants were to weaken. There can be no assurance that we will be
successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. If we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues.   
    If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new hardware systems or software competitors, the results of operations and prospects for
our business could be harmed through fewer customer orders, reduced pricing, lower revenues or lower profits.      Our hardware systems business will compete with, among others, (i) systems manufacturers and resellers
of systems based on our own microprocessors and operating systems and those of our competitors, (ii) microprocessor/chip manufacturers and (iii) providers of storage products. Our entrance into the hardware systems business may also cause
us to compete with companies who historically have been our partners. These competitors in most cases have more experience than we do in managing a hardware business. A large portion of our hardware products are based on our SPARC microprocessor and
Solaris operating system platform, which has a smaller installed base than certain of our competitors  platforms and which may make it difficult for us to win new customers that have already made significant investments in our competitors 
platforms. Certain of these competitors also compete very aggressively on price. Furthermore, Sun experienced increased competition during the pendency of our acquisition of Sun. A loss in our competitive position could result in lower revenues or
profitability, which could adversely impact our ability to realize the revenue and profitability forecasts for our hardware systems business.   
  Many vendors develop and market databases, middleware products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business
intelligence products that compete with our software offerings. In addition, several companies offer business process outsourcing (BPO) and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) as competitive alternatives to buying software and hardware, and customer
interest in BPO and SaaS solutions is increasing. Some of these competitors have greater financial or technical resources than we do. Our competitors that offer business applications and middleware products may influence a customer s purchasing
decision for the underlying database in an effort to persuade potential customers not to acquire our products. We could lose customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce
prices or form strategic alliances with other companies. Vendors that offer BPO or SaaS solutions may persuade our customers not to purchase our products. We may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives, in which
competitors may provide software and intellectual property for free. Existing or new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense.   
    Our hardware systems offerings are complex products. If we cannot successfully manage the required processes to meet customer requirements and
demand on a timely basis, the results of our hardware systems business will suffer.      Designing, developing, manufacturing and introducing new hardware products are complicated processes. The development process is
uncertain and requires a high level of innovation from both systems hardware and software product designers and engineers and the suppliers of the components used in these products. The development process is also lengthy and costly. Once a new
hardware product is developed, we face several         
   19   

Table of Contents  

challenges in the manufacturing process. We must be able to forecast customer demand and manufacture new hardware products in sufficient volumes to meet this demand and do so in a cost effective
manner. As we continue to transition to a  build-to-order  manufacturing model where our hardware products are not fully assembled until after customers place orders, we may from time to time experience delays in delivering our hardware
products to customers in a timely manner. These delays could cause our customers to purchase hardware products and services from our competitors. We must also manage new hardware product introductions and transitions to minimize the impact of
customer delayed purchases of existing hardware products in anticipation of new hardware product releases. Because the design and manufacturing process for components is also very complicated, it is possible that we could experience design or
manufacturing flaws. These design or manufacturing flaws could delay or prevent the production of the components for which we have previously committed to pay or need to fulfill orders from customers. These types of component flaws could also
prevent the production of our hardware products or cause our hardware products to be returned, recalled or rejected resulting in lost revenues, increases in warranty costs, damage to our reputation, penalties and litigation.   
    Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a
transaction.      In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies. An active acquisition program is an important element of our overall corporate
strategy, and we expect to continue to make similar acquisitions in the future. Risks we may face in connection with our acquisition program include:       

our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management s attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities;

an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we
expected or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on, our investments, which could adversely affect our business or operating results;      

we may have difficulties (i) managing an acquired company s technologies or lines of business or (ii) entering new markets where we have
no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions;          

our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology
or that are otherwise related to an acquisition, including claims from government agencies, terminated employees, current or former customers, former stockholders or other third parties; pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company
that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company s practices;
and intellectual property claims or disputes;          

we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company or technology,
which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial
condition;          

we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including if a larger than predicted number of
customers decline to renew software license updates and product support contracts and hardware systems support contracts, if we are unable to sell the acquired products to our customer base or if contract models of an acquired company do not allow
us to recognize revenues on a timely basis;          

we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, architecture,
controls, procedures and policies;          

we may have multiple product lines as a result of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer
confusion and delays;          

we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, in general and administrative functions that
support new business models, or in compliance with associated regulations that are more complicated than we had anticipated;            
   20   

Table of Contents  

we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or other sanctions imposed on us
by, worker councils or similar bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions;      

we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely basis, if it all, which
could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or have other adverse effects on our current business and operations;

our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of
outstanding indebtedness;          

we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition and we
may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or on favorable terms;      

we may experience additional or unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions pursuant to U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles, including arrangements that we assume from an acquisition; and          

to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and
earnings per share may decrease.         The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions.   
    Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating
results.      We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the United States. Our international operations include software and hardware systems development,
manufacturing, sales, customer support, consulting, On Demand and shared administrative service centers.      Compliance with international and
U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations include U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws
which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import and trade restrictions, and export requirements. Violations of these laws and regulations
could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more
countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Our
success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. We monitor our international operations and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions
are recorded. Where circumstances warrant, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities, but no assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such authorities.   
  We are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including those related to:

general economic conditions in each country or region;      

fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related impacts to our operating results;      

regulatory changes;          

political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities;      

public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations;      
     
   21   

Table of Contents  

longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;      

overlapping tax regimes;          

our ability to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries to the United States at favorable tax rates;      

difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries; and      

reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries.      
  As a result of our entry into a new hardware systems business, the volume and complexity of laws and regulations that we are subject to have increased.
     As the majority shareholder of Oracle Financial Services Software Limited, a publicly traded Indian software company focused on the banking
industry, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control or obtain financial and other information on a timely basis.   
    We may experience foreign currency gains and losses.      We conduct a significant number of transactions in currencies
other than the U.S. Dollar. Changes in the value of major foreign currencies, particularly the Euro, Japanese Yen and British Pound relative to the U.S. Dollar can significantly affect revenues and our operating results. Generally, our
revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. For example, our revenues and operating results in fiscal 2009 were unfavorably
affected by the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to most other major foreign currencies.      In addition, we incur foreign currency
transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other intercompany agreements among us and our subsidiaries and distributors that we expect to cash settle in the near term, that are charged against earnings in the period
incurred. We have a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with these foreign currency exposures, which we may suspend from time to time. This program was active for the majority of fiscal
2010 and was suspended during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. When the program is active, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the
foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transaction gains or losses. As a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional
foreign currency volatility in the future, the amounts and timing of which are variable. We will continue to experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances when we suspend our foreign currency forward contract program or where it
is not possible or cost effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures. For example, if overall foreign currency exchange rates weakened subsequent to May 31, 2010, we believe we would recognize foreign currency losses related to
cross-currency exposures that our foreign currency forward contracts program, when active, may be able to mitigate. Our ultimate realized loss or gain with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency
exposures that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and other factors. All of these
factors could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows, the timing of which is variable and generally outside of our control. For example, during fiscal 2010, we incurred foreign currency losses associated with
our Venezuelan subsidiary due to it being designated as operating in a highly inflationary economy and due to the subsequent devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar relative to the U.S. Dollar.   
    The future operating results of our hardware systems business will depend on our ability to manage our component inventory to meet the demands of
our hardware systems customers and to avoid component inventory write-downs.      Sun s hardware systems business has historically depended upon suppliers to design, develop, manufacture and deliver on a timely basis
the necessary components for its hardware products. While many of the components historically purchased have been standard, some components (standard or otherwise) have required long lead times to manufacture and deliver. Furthermore, there are some
components that can only be purchased from a single vendor due to price, quality, technology or other business constraints. At times we may be unable to purchase these items from the respective single vendors on acceptable terms or may experience
significant delays or         
   22   

Table of Contents  

quality issues in the delivery of necessary parts or components from a particular vendor. If we had to find a new supplier for these parts and components, hardware product shipments could be
delayed. We could also experience fluctuations in component prices which, if unanticipated, could negatively impact our hardware systems business cost structure. These factors may make it difficult for us to plan and procure appropriate component
inventory levels in a timely fashion to meet customer demand for our hardware products. Therefore we may experience component inventory shortages which may result in production delays or customers choosing to purchase fewer hardware products from us
or systems products from our competitors. Sun historically has negotiated supply commitments with vendors early in the manufacturing process to ensure they had sufficient components for its hardware systems products to meet anticipated customer
demand, and we initially expect to do the same. We must also manage our levels of older component inventories used in our hardware products to minimize inventory write-offs or write-downs. If we have excess inventory, it may be necessary to
write-down the inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. If one or more of the risks described above occurs, our hardware systems business and related operating results could be materially and adversely affected.   
    We expect to continue to depend on third party manufacturers to build certain hardware systems products and are susceptible to manufacturing delays
that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and may result in the loss of sales and customers.      We outsource the manufacturing and assembly of certain of our hardware products to a variety of
manufacturing companies, many of which are located outside the United States. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance,
product costs and product supply as well as the political and economic uncertainties of the international locations where certain of these third-party manufacturers have facilities and operations. Any manufacturing disruption by our third-party
manufacturers could impair our ability to fulfill orders for these hardware systems products. If we are unable to manage our relationships with these third-party manufacturers effectively, or if these third-party manufacturers experience delays,
disruptions, capacity constraints, regulatory issues or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship certain of our hardware systems products to our
customers could be impaired and our hardware systems business could be harmed.      We plan to simplify our supply chain processes by reducing the
number of third party manufacturing partners on which Sun had historically relied and the number of locations where these third party manufacturers will build our hardware systems products. We will therefore become more dependent on a fewer number
of these manufacturing partners and locations. If these partners experience production problems or delays or cannot meet our demand for products, we may not be able to find alternate manufacturing sources in a timely or cost effective manner, if at
all. If we are required to change third party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled hardware products deliveries to our customers could be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers,
delayed revenue recognition or an increase in our hardware systems products expenses which could adversely affect the margins of our hardware systems business.   
    We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights.      We rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade
secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions
of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. Any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be
issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. In addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as do the laws and courts of the United States. If we cannot protect our
intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive.        Third
parties have claimed and, in the future, may claim infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions.      We periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed
against us by, others claiming infringement or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. We expect the number of such claims will increase as:   

we continue to acquire companies and expand into new businesses;      

the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows;      
     
   23   

Table of Contents  

the functionality of products overlap;          

the use and support of third-party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the industry; and      

the volume of issued patents continues to increase.      
  Responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could:       

be time consuming, costly and result in litigation;          

divert management s time and attention from developing our business;      

require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable;

require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products;      

require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms;      

require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers; or      

otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.      
  Specific patent infringement cases are discussed under Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
    We may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees.      We rely on the continued service of
our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer and founder, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. In the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition
for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. In addition, acquisitions could cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or at Oracle. We may also experience increased compensation costs that are not
offset by either improved productivity or higher prices. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. With rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements
with our employees. Members of our senior management team have left Oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations.   
  We continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise is available at lower costs. When
we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. We may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the
trend toward globalization continues, which may affect our employee retention efforts and increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. Our compensation program includes stock options, which are an important tool in
attracting and retaining employees in our industry. If our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. In addition, because we expense all stock-based compensation, we may in the future change our
stock-based and other compensation practices. Some of the changes we consider from time to time include a reduction in the number of employees granted options, a reduction in the number of options granted per employee and a change to alternative
forms of stock-based compensation. Any changes in our compensation practices or changes made by competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel.   
    We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully.      The intense competition we face in the sales of our
products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable,
we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. Our software license updates and product support fees and hardware systems
support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net new software license fees and net new hardware systems products fees, respectively. Our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to
further discount our new license prices.         
   24   

Table of Contents  

   Any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed
as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations.
These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. If we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our revenues
could decrease. Additionally, increased distribution of applications through application service providers, including SaaS providers, may reduce the average price for our products or adversely affect other sales of our products, reducing our
revenues unless we can offset price reductions with volume increases. The increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models.   
    Charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results.      Under business
combination accounting standards pursuant to ASC 805,  Business Combinations , we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date
fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts
of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. After we complete an acquisition, the following factors could
result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows:       

costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or
relocation expenses;          

impairment of goodwill or intangible assets;          

amortization of intangible assets acquired;          

a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired;      

identification of or changes to assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related, after our final determination of the
amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first;      

charges to our operating results to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure;

charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and      

charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition.      
  Substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those
costs are incurred. Charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. A more detailed discussion of
our accounting for these and other items is presented in the  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  section of Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7).   
    Our periodic workforce restructurings can be disruptive.      We have in the past restructured or made other adjustments
to our workforce, including our direct sales force on which we rely heavily, in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. In the past, sales force and other
restructurings have generally resulted in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity. These effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and our revenues could be negatively affected.   
      We might experience significant errors or security flaws in our software products and services.        Despite
testing prior to their release, software products frequently contain errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. The detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly.
Errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other           
   25   

Table of Contents  

hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. If we
experience errors or delays in releasing new software products or new versions of software products, we could lose revenues. In addition, we run our own business operations, Oracle On Demand and other outsourcing services, support and consulting
services, on our products and networks and any security flaws, if exploited, could affect our ability to conduct internal business operations. End users, who rely on our software products and services for applications that are critical to their
businesses, may have a greater sensitivity to product errors and security vulnerabilities than customers for software products generally. Software product errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to product liability,
performance and/or warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. In addition, we may be legally required to publicly report security breaches of our services, which could adversely
impact future business prospects for those services.           We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and
development efforts for several years, if at all.      Developing and localizing software and hardware products is expensive, and the investment in product development often involves a long return on investment cycle. We
have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. Accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and
development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive
position. However, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all.        Our sales to
government clients subject us to risks including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties.      We derive revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, state and local governments and their
respective agencies, which may terminate most of these contracts at any time, without cause. There is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. Our federal government contracts
are subject to the approval of appropriations being made by the U.S. Congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. Similarly, our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to government funding authorizations. Additionally,
government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of
profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business.        We may face numerous risks in
connection with our strategic alliance with Fujitsu.      Prior to our acquisition of Sun, Sun had entered into a number of agreements with Fujitsu Limited with respect to collaborative sales and marketing efforts and the
joint development and manufacturing of Sun s server products known as the Advanced Product Line and branded as the Sun SPARC Enterprise line of servers. The agreements contemplate that Sun and Fujitsu dedicate substantial financial and human
resources to this relationship. As a result, the future performance of our hardware systems business may be impacted by the success or failure of this relationship.   
  If we, as successors to Sun, fail to satisfy certain development or supply obligations under the agreements, or if we otherwise violate the terms of the
agreements, we may be subject to contractual or legal penalties. Further, if Fujitsu encounters potential problems in its business, such as intellectual property infringement claims, supply difficulties, or difficulties in meeting development
milestones or financial challenges, these problems could impact our strategic relationship with Fujitsu and could result in a material adverse effect on our hardware systems business. There can be no assurance that the strategic relationship with
Fujitsu will be successful, or that the economic terms of the agreements establishing the relationship will ultimately prove to be favorable to us. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our hardware systems
business.        Business disruptions could affect our operating results.      A significant portion of our research
and development activities and certain other critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas. We are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing
services, including some of our On Demand offerings. A major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our
ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected.         
   26   

Table of Contents  

     There are risks associated with our outstanding indebtedness.      As of
May 31, 2010, we had an aggregate of $14.7 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between the remainder of calendar 2010 and calendar 2039, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to pay interest
and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. There can be no assurance that we will
be able to manage any of these risks successfully.      We may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a
risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in
higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. Should we incur future increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of our foreign tax credits to reduce our
U.S. federal income tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our
debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on outstanding or future debt. These risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.   
    Adverse litigation results could affect our business.      We are subject to various legal proceedings. Litigation can be
lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and results cannot be predicted with certainty. An adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition.
Additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
    We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities.      As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as
well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities.   
  Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S.
international tax reform, such as certain proposals by President Obama s Administration, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate.   
  In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Our intercompany transfer pricing is currently being reviewed by the IRS and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. We previously negotiated three
successive unilateral Advance Pricing Agreements with the IRS that cover many of our intercompany transfer pricing issues and preclude the IRS from making a transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of the agreements. These agreements are
effective for fiscal years through May 31, 2006. We have submitted to the IRS a request for another renewal of this Advance Pricing Agreement for the years ending May 31, 2007 through May 31, 2011. However, these agreements do not
cover all elements of our transfer pricing and do not bind tax authorities outside the United States. We have finalized two bilateral Advance Pricing Agreements, one of which was effective for the years ending May 31, 2002 through May 31,
2006 and we have submitted a request for a renewal of this agreement for the years ending May 31, 2007 through May 31, 2011. There can be no guarantee that such negotiations will result in an agreement. The additional bilateral agreement
covers the period from June 1, 2001 through January 25, 2008.      Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no
assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals.   
  We are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the
United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. Our acquisition activities have
increased our non-income based tax exposures, particularly with our entry into a new hardware systems business resulting from our acquisition of Sun, which increased the volume and complexity of laws and regulations that we are subject to and with
which we must comply.        Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand may not be successful.      We offer Oracle On Demand
outsourcing services for our applications and database technology, delivered at our data center facilities, select partner data   
     
   27   

Table of Contents  

centers or customer facilities. We also offer CRM On Demand, which is a service offering that provides our customers with our CRM software functionality delivered via a hosted solution that we
manage. These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues, develop them into profitable businesses or maintain their profitability. We incur expenses associated with the
infrastructures and marketing of our Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand businesses in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. These businesses are subject to a variety of additional risks, including:

we manage critical customer applications, data and other confidential information through Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand; accordingly, we face
increased exposure to significant damage claims and risk to Oracle s brand and future business prospects in the event of system failures, inadequate disaster recovery or loss or misappropriation of customer confidential information;

we may face regulatory exposure in certain areas such as data privacy, data security and export compliance;      

the laws and regulations applicable to hosted service providers are unsettled, particularly in the areas of privacy and security and use of global
resources; changes in these laws could affect our ability to provide services from or to some locations and could increase both the costs and risks associated with providing the services;      

demand for these services may not meet our expectations and may be affected by customer and media concerns about security risks, international
transfers of data, government or other third-party access to data, and/or use of outsourced services providers more generally; and          

our offerings may require large fixed costs for data centers, computers, network infrastructure, security and otherwise, and we may not be able to
generate sufficient revenues to offset these costs and generate acceptable operating margins from these offerings.      
    Environmental laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and
costs.      Some of our operations acquired from Sun are subject to state, federal and international laws governing protection of the environment, proper handling and disposal of materials used to manufacture our products,
human health and safety, and regulating the use of certain chemical substances. We endeavor to comply with these environmental laws, yet compliance with such laws could increase our product design, development, procurement and manufacturing costs,
limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory, change our sales activities, or otherwise impact future financial results of our hardware systems business. Any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability,
including fines, penalties, and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, and result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operation of our hardware systems business. A
significant portion of Sun s hardware systems revenues historically has come from international sales. Recent environmental legislation within the European Union (EU), including the EU Directive on Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and
Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE Directive), as well as China s regulation on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products may increase our cost of doing business
internationally and impact our hardware systems revenues from EU countries and China as we endeavor to comply with and implement these requirements. In addition, similar environmental legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions,
the cumulative impact of which could be significant.        Our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose
value.      All of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. The timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our
competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. Changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could adversely affect our stock
price. Our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors  or analysts  valuation measures for our stock, our
credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. A significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management s
attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

Item 1B.   
   Unresolved Staff Comments         None.

Item 2.   
   Properties         Our properties consist of
owned and leased office facilities for sales, support, research and development, consulting and administrative personnel. Our headquarters facility consists of approximately 2.0 million square feet in Redwood City, California. We also own or
lease office facilities for current use consisting of approximately 26.0 million square feet in various other locations in the United States and abroad. Approximately 6.1 million square feet or 22% of total owned and leased space is sublet
or is being actively marketed for sublease or disposition.       

Item 3.   
   Legal Proceedings         The material set forth
in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 4.   
   (Removed and Reserved)            
   29   

Table of Contents  

    PART II        

Item 5.   
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities      
  Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol  ORCL  and has been traded on NASDAQ since our initial public
offering in 1986. According to the records of our transfer agent, we had 18,059 stockholders of record as of May 31, 2010. The following table sets forth the low and high sale price of our common stock, based on the last daily sale, in each of
our last eight fiscal quarters.       
    We declared and paid cash dividends
totaling $0.20 per outstanding common share over the course of fiscal 2010. We declared and paid a cash dividend of $0.05 per outstanding common share for the first time in our history during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2009.   
  In June 2010, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share of outstanding common stock payable on August 4, 2010 to
stockholders of record as of the close of business on July 14, 2010. We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record and
payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.      For equity compensation plan information, please refer to
Item 12 in Part III of this Annual Report.        Stock Repurchase Programs     
  Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock. On October 20, 2008, we announced that our Board of
Directors had approved the expansion of our repurchase program by $8.0 billion and as of May 31, 2010, approximately $5.3 billion was available for share repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program.   
  Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working
capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment obligations or repurchases of our debt, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time
through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.   
  The following table summarizes the stock repurchase activity for the three months ended May 31, 2010 and the approximate dollar value of shares that
may yet be purchased pursuant to our stock repurchase program:       
       
   30   

Table of Contents  

     Stock Performance Graph and Cumulative Total Return     
  The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total return of the S P 500 Index, the Dow
Jones U.S. Software Index and the S P Information Technology Index for each of the last five fiscal years ended May 31, 2010, assuming an investment of $100 at the beginning of such period and the reinvestment of any dividends. As a result
of our acquisition of Sun in fiscal 2010, we entered into a new hardware systems business and, for purposes of the stock performance graph below, we have changed one of the indexes to which we compare our cumulative total stockholder return from the
Dow Jones U.S. Software Index to the S P Information Technology Index. For the purposes of comparison, the stock performance graph below includes the new index and the previously reported index. The comparisons in the graphs below are based upon
historical data and are not indicative of, nor intended to forecast, future performance of our common stock.   

*$100 INVESTED ON MAY 31, 2005 IN STOCK OR   
  INDEX-INCLUDING REINVESTMENT OF DIVIDENDS.       
       
   31   

Table of Contents  

      Item 6.    Selected Financial Data    
  The following table sets forth selected financial data as of and for the last five fiscal years. This selected financial data should be read in
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 15 of this Annual Report. Over the last five fiscal years, we have acquired a number of companies including Sun Microsystems, Inc. in fiscal 2010, BEA
Systems, Inc. in fiscal 2008, Hyperion Solutions Corporation in fiscal 2007 and Siebel Systems, Inc. in fiscal 2006. The results of our acquired companies have been included in our consolidated financial statements since their respective dates of
acquisition and have contributed to our growth in revenues, income and earnings per share.       

(1)   
    Total working capital sequentially increased in most periods primarily due to the favorable impact to our net current assets resulting from our net
income generated during these periods and the issuance of $4.5 billion, $5.0 billion and $5.75 billion of long-term senior notes in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2006, respectively. These increases were partially offset by cash used for
acquisitions and repurchases of common stock in all periods presented and repayments of certain of our senior notes in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2007 and dividend payments made in fiscal 2010 and 2009.      

(2)   
    Total assets increased as of May 31, 2010, 2008 and 2007 in comparison to the prior year period primarily due to goodwill and intangible assets
arising from the acquisitions of Sun in fiscal 2010, BEA in fiscal 2008 and Hyperion in fiscal 2007, as well as our profitability in all periods presented. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our
acquisitions.          

(3)   
    Notes payable, current and other current borrowings increased in fiscal 2010 primarily due to the reclassification of $2.2 billion of our senior notes
due January 2011 as a current liability and our outstanding commercial paper notes of $881 million, partially offset by the repayment of $1.0 billion of senior notes that matured in May 2010. Notes payable, current and other current borrowings
remained constant in fiscal 2009 due to repayment of $1.0 billion of senior notes that matured in May 2009 offset by the reclassification of $1.0 billion of senior notes that matured in fiscal 2010. Notes payable, current and other current
borrowings decreased in fiscal 2008 due to repayments of amounts borrowed under our commercial paper program during fiscal 2007 partially offset by the reclassification of $1.0 billion of senior notes as a current liability that matured and were
repaid in fiscal 2009.          

(4)   
    Notes payable and other non-current borrowings generally increased between fiscal 2006 and 2010 due to the issuances of $4.5 billion of long-term
senior notes in fiscal 2010, $5.0 billion of long-term senior notes in fiscal 2008, and $2.0 billion of long-term senior notes in fiscal 2007, partially offset by redemptions of $1.5 billion in fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, $2.2
billion, $1.0 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, of non-current senior notes were reclassified as current liabilities. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our notes payable and other
borrowings.            
   32   

Table of Contents  

      Item 7.    Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations       We begin Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations with an overview of our key operating business segments and significant trends, including changes to our business as a result of our acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun) in fiscal 2010. This overview is followed by a summary of our
critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and
financial condition.       Business Overview    
  We are the world s largest enterprise software company. As a result of our acquisition of Sun in January 2010, we are also a leading provider of
hardware systems products and services. We develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database and middleware software, applications software and hardware systems, consisting primarily of computer server and storage products, which are
designed to help our customers manage and grow their business operations.      Our goal is to be the world s most complete, open and
integrated enterprise software and hardware company. We offer customers scalable, reliable, secure and integrated software and hardware solutions that are designed to improve transactional efficiencies, adapt to an organization s unique needs
and allow better ways to access and manage information and automate business processes at a lower total cost of ownership. We seek to be an industry leader in each of the specific product categories in which we compete and to expand into new and
emerging markets.      We believe our internal, or organic, growth and continued innovation with respect to our software, hardware and services
businesses are the foundation of our long-term strategic plan. In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 we invested $3.3 billion, $2.8 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively, in research and development to enhance our existing portfolio of products and
services and to develop new products, features and services. We also believe that an active acquisition program is an important element of our corporate strategy as it strengthens our competitive position, expands our customer base, provides greater
scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies that add to, are
complementary to or have otherwise enhanced our existing offerings. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy.   
  We are organized into three businesses software, hardware systems and services which are further divided into seven operating segments. Each of
these businesses and operating segments has unique characteristics and faces different opportunities and challenges. Although we report our actual results in U.S. Dollars, we conduct a significant number of transactions in currencies other than U.S.
Dollars. Therefore, we present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. An overview of our three businesses and seven
operating segments follows.         Software Business      
  Our software business, which represented 77%, 81% and 80% of our total revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, is comprised of two operating
segments: (1) new software licenses and (2) software license updates and product support. On a constant currency basis, we expect that our software business  total revenues generally will continue to increase due to continued demand
for our software products and software license updates and product support offerings, including the high percentage of customers that renew their software license updates and product support contracts, and due to our acquisitions, which should allow
us to grow our profits and continue to make investments in research and development.        New Software
Licenses:      We license our database and middleware as well as our applications software to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we
acquired certain software technologies, including Java, which is a global software development platform used in a wide range of computers, networks and devices.         

   33   

Table of Contents  

   The growth in new software license revenues that we report is affected by the strength of general economic
and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, the competitive position of our software products, our acquisitions and foreign currency fluctuations. The substantial majority of our new software license business is also characterized
by long sales cycles. The timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software license revenues. Since our new software license revenues in a particular quarter can be difficult to predict as a
result of the timing of a few large software license transactions, we believe that analysis of new software license revenues on a trailing 4-quarter period (as provided in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q) provides additional visibility into the
underlying performance of our new software license business. New software license revenues represented 28%, 31% and 34% of our total revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The proportion of our new software license revenues relative
to our total revenues in fiscal 2010 was affected by our entry into the hardware systems business as a result of our acquisition of Sun. Our new software license segment s margins have historically trended upward over the course of the four
quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our new software license revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this segment are predominantly fixed in the short term. However,
our new software license segment s margins have been and will continue to be affected by the amortization of intangible assets associated with companies that we have acquired, including Sun.   
    Software License Updates and Product Support:      Customers that purchase software license updates and product support
are granted rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period, as well as technical support assistance. Substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support
contracts annually. The growth of software license updates and product support revenues is primarily influenced by three factors: (1) the percentage of our support contract customer base that renews its support contracts, (2) the amount of
new support contracts sold in connection with the sale of new software licenses, and (3) the amount of support contracts assumed from companies we have acquired.   
  Software license updates and product support revenues, which represented 49%, 50% and 46% of our total revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively, is our highest margin business unit. The proportion of our software license updates and product support revenues relative to our total revenues in fiscal 2010 was affected by our entry into the hardware systems business as a result of
our acquisition of Sun. Support margins during fiscal 2010 were 85% and accounted for 80% of our total margins. Our software license update and product support margins have been affected by fair value adjustments relating to support obligations
assumed in business combinations (described further below) and by amortization of intangible assets. However, over the longer term, we believe that software license updates and product support revenues and margins will grow for the following
reasons:       

substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their support contracts when eligible for renewal;

substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support contracts when they buy new software licenses, resulting in a
further increase in our support contract base. Even if new software license revenues growth was flat, software license updates and product support revenues would continue to grow in comparison to the corresponding prior year periods assuming renewal
and cancellation rates and foreign currency rates remained relatively constant since substantially all new software license transactions result in the sale of software license updates and product support contracts, which add to our support contract
base; and          

our acquisitions have increased our support contract base, as well as the portfolio of products available to be licensed and supported.
        We record adjustments to reduce support obligations assumed in business combinations to their estimated fair values at the
acquisition dates. As a result, as required by business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts that would have been otherwise recorded by the acquired
businesses as independent entities in the amount of $86 million, $243 million and $179 million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. To the extent underlying support contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will
recognize the revenues for the full value of the support contracts over the support periods, the majority of which are one year.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

      Hardware Systems Business      
  As a result of our acquisition of Sun in January 2010, we entered into a new hardware systems business. Our hardware systems business consists of two
operating segments: (1) hardware systems products and (2) hardware systems support. Our hardware business represented 9% of our total revenues in fiscal 2010 and we expect that it will continue to add a significant amount of revenues and
expenses to our results of operations in comparison to our historical operating results. We expect our hardware business to have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues than our software business due to the incremental costs we incur to
produce and distribute these products and to provide support services, including direct materials and labor costs. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services or develop new hardware
products and services.      To produce our hardware products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party
manufacturing partners. Our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of final assembly, test and quality control of enterprise and data center servers and storage systems. For all other manufacturing, we rely on third party manufacturing
partners. We distribute most of our hardware products either from our facilities or partner facilities. One of our main goals is to reduce costs by simplifying our manufacturing processes through increased standardization of components across
product types, through a reduction of the number of assembly and distribution centers we rely on and through our transition to a  build-to-order  process in which products are built only after customers have placed firm orders. In
addition, we are focusing on identifying hardware systems support processes that are intended to proactively identify and solve quality issues and to increase the amount of new hardware systems support contracts sold in connection with the sales of
new hardware products.        Hardware Systems Products:      Our hardware systems products consist primarily of
computer server and storage product offerings and hardware-related software, including our Solaris operating system.      We offer a wide range of
server systems using our SPARC microprocessor. Our SPARC servers are differentiated by their size, cost, form factor or configuration (rack, blade or stand-alone systems) and customer environments that they target (general purpose or specialized
systems). Our mid- and large-size servers are designed to offer greater performance and lower total cost of ownership than mainframe systems for business critical applications and for customers having more computationally intensive needs. Our SPARC
servers run the Solaris operating system and are designed for the most demanding mission critical enterprise environments at any scale.      We
also offer a wide range of x86 servers differentiated by the same features as our SPARC servers. These x86 systems are substantially based upon microprocessor platforms from Intel Corporation and are also compatible with Solaris, Linux, Windows and
other operating systems.      Our storage products are designed to securely manage, protect, archive and restore customers  data assets and
consist of tape, disk and networking solutions for open systems and mainframe server environments.      Prior to our acquisition of Sun, the
majority of Sun s hardware systems products were sold through indirect channels. Although we plan to continue to sell our hardware products through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value added resellers, we have begun
enhancing direct sales coverage for our hardware systems products and intend that our direct sales force will sell proportionately more of our hardware systems products in the future than they do currently.   
  Our operating margins for our hardware systems products segment have been and will be affected by the amortization of intangible assets associated with
our acquisition of Sun. In addition, business combination accounting rules require us to record acquired inventories at fair value, which generally will result in an unfavorable short-term impact to our expenses and operating margins as we sell
these acquired inventories to customers in the post-combination period.      We have limited experience in predicting our quarterly hardware
systems products revenues. The timing of customer orders and delays in our ability to timely manufacture or deliver a few large transactions could substantially affect the amount of hardware systems products revenues, expenses and operating margins
that we report.         
   35   

Table of Contents  

     Hardware Systems Support:      Customers that purchase our hardware systems
products may also elect to purchase our hardware systems support offerings. Our hardware systems support offerings provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of our systems and storage
products, including Solaris, and can include product repairs, maintenance services, and technical support services. Typically, our hardware systems support contract arrangements are invoiced to the customer at the beginning of the support period and
are one year in duration. The growth of our hardware systems support revenues is influenced by a number of factors, including the volume of purchases of hardware products, the mix of hardware products purchased, and the percentage of our hardware
systems support contract customer base that renews its support contracts. All of these factors are heavily influenced by our customers  decisions to either maintain or upgrade their existing hardware systems  infrastructure to newly
developed technologies that are available.      Our hardware systems support margins have been and will be affected by fair value adjustments
relating to hardware systems support obligations assumed through, and by the amortization of intangible assets resulting from, our acquisition of Sun. As required by business combination accounting rules, we recorded adjustments to reduce our
hardware systems support revenues for contracts assumed from our acquisition of Sun to their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date by an aggregate of $128 million for fiscal 2010. This amount would have been recorded as hardware systems
support revenues by Sun as a standalone entity. To the extent underlying hardware systems support contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of the hardware systems support contracts
over the support periods.         Services Business      
  Our services business consists of consulting, On Demand and education. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we expanded and enhanced our customer base
and services offerings, which we believe will increase our revenues and expenses in comparison to recent periods. Our services business, which represented 14%, 19% and 20% of our total revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, has
significantly lower margins than our software business. The proportion of our services revenues relative to our total revenues in fiscal 2010 was affected by our entry into the hardware systems business as a result of our acquisition of Sun.
       Consulting:      Our consulting line of business primarily provides services to customers in enterprise
architecture design and implementation; business/IT strategy alignment; business process simplification; solution integration; and product implementation, enhancements, and upgrades. The amount of consulting revenues recognized tends to lag the
amount of our software and hardware systems products revenues by several quarters since consulting services, if purchased, are typically segmentable from the products with which they relate and are performed after the customer s purchase of the
products. Our consulting revenues are dependent upon general economic conditions and the level of product revenues, in particular the new software license sales of our application products. To the extent we are able to grow our products revenues, in
particular our software application product revenues, we would also generally expect to be able to eventually grow our consulting revenues.   
    On Demand:      On Demand includes our Oracle On Demand and our Advanced Customer Services offerings. As a result of our
acquisition of Sun, we increased the volume and breadth of our On Demand services offerings, primarily with additional Advanced Customer Services offerings, including staff augmentation and managed services, to architect, implement and manage
customer IT environments. We believe that our On Demand offerings provide our customers flexibility in how they manage their IT environments and an additional opportunity to lower their total cost of ownership and can therefore provide us with a
competitive advantage. While we have grown the base of customers that purchase certain of our On Demand services through our organic growth and the acquisition of Sun, we continue to focus on managing our expenses to increase our margins and margins
as a percentage of our revenues. We have made and plan to continue to make investments in our On Demand business to support current and future revenue growth, which historically has negatively impacted On Demand margins and could do so in the
future.        Education:      The purpose of our education services is to further the adoption and usage of our
software and hardware products by our customers and to create opportunities to grow our product revenues. Education revenues are impacted by certain of our acquisitions (including our acquisition of Sun), general economic
        
   36   

Table of Contents  

conditions, personnel reductions in our customers  information technology departments, tighter controls over discretionary spending and greater use of outsourcing solutions. In recent
periods, we believe the global economic environment has unfavorably affected customer demand for our education services, which has negatively impacted our revenues and margins.   
     Acquisitions         An active
acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies including Sun in fiscal 2010 and
BEA Systems, Inc. in fiscal 2008, among others. We believe our acquisition program supports our long-term strategic direction, strengthens our competitive position, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows
our revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included
elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional information related to our recent acquisitions.      We believe we can fund our pending and future
acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, amounts available under our existing debt facilities, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities.
We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition.   
   Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates    
  Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as set forth in the Financial
Accounting Standards Board s Accounting Standards Codification (Codification) and consider the various staff accounting bulletins and other applicable guidance issued by the SEC. GAAP, as set forth within the Codification, requires us to make
certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made.
These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent
there are material differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which
we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following:       

Revenue Recognition          

Business Combinations          

Goodwill and Intangible Assets Impairment Assessments      

Accounting for Income Taxes          

Legal and Other Contingencies          

Stock-Based Compensation          

Allowances for Doubtful Accounts      
  In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require management s judgment in
its application. There are also areas in which management s judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed the below critical accounting policies and
related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.         
   37   

Table of Contents  

     Revenue Recognition     
  Our sources of revenues include: (1) software, which includes new software license revenues and software license updates and product support
revenues; (2) hardware systems, which includes the sale of hardware systems products including computer servers and storage products, and hardware systems support revenues; and (3) services, which include software and hardware related
services including consulting, On Demand and education revenues.       Revenue Recognition for Software Products and Software Related Services
(Software Elements)       New software license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware
and applications software, and exclude revenues derived from software license updates, which are included in software license updates and product support revenues. While the basis for software license revenue recognition is substantially governed by
the accounting guidance contained in ASC 985-605,  Software-Revenue Recognition , we exercise judgment and use estimates in connection with the determination of the amount of software and services revenues to be recognized in each accounting
period.      For software license arrangements that do not require significant modification or customization of the underlying software, we
recognize new software license revenues when: (1) we enter into a legally binding arrangement with a customer for the license of software; (2) we deliver the products; (3) customer payment is deemed fixed or determinable and free of
contingencies or significant uncertainties; and (4) collection is probable. Substantially all of our new software license revenues are recognized in this manner.   
  Substantially all of our software license arrangements do not include acceptance provisions. However, if acceptance provisions exist as part of public
policy, for example, in agreements with government entities where acceptance periods are required by law, or within previously executed terms and conditions that are referenced in the current agreement and are short-term in nature, we generally
recognize revenues upon delivery provided the acceptance terms are perfunctory and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. If acceptance provisions are not perfunctory (for example, acceptance provisions that are long-term in nature or
are not included as standard terms of an arrangement), revenues are recognized upon the earlier of receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period.   
  The vast majority of our software license arrangements include software license updates and product support contracts, which are entered into at the
customer s option and are recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement, typically one year. Software license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during
the term of the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel. Software license updates and product support contracts are generally priced as a
percentage of the net new software license fees. Substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually.   
   Revenue Recognition for Multiple-Element Arrangements Software Products and Software Related Services (Software Arrangements)    
  We often enter into arrangements with customers that purchase both software related products and services from us at the same time, or within close
proximity of one another (referred to as software related multiple-element arrangements). Such software related multiple-element arrangements include the sale of our software products, software license updates and product support contracts and other
software related services whereby software license delivery is followed by the subsequent or contemporaneous delivery of the other elements. For those software related multiple-element arrangements, we have applied the residual method to determine
the amount of license revenues to be recognized pursuant to ASC 985-605. Under the residual method, if fair value exists for undelivered elements in a multiple-element arrangement, such fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred with the
remaining portion of the arrangement consideration recognized upon delivery of the software license or services arrangement. We allocate the fair value of each element of a software related multiple-element arrangement based upon its fair value as
determined by our vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE described further below), with any remaining amount allocated to the software license.         
   38   

Table of Contents  

    Revenue Recognition for Hardware Systems Products and Hardware Systems Related Services (Nonsoftware
Elements)       Revenues from the sale of hardware systems products represent amounts earned primarily from the sale of computer servers and
storage products. Our revenue recognition policy for these nonsoftware deliverables is based upon the accounting guidance contained in ASC 605,  Revenue Recognition , and we exercise judgment and use estimates in connection with the
determination of the amount of hardware systems products and hardware systems related services revenues to be recognized in each accounting period.   
  Revenues from the sales of hardware products are recognized when: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) we deliver the products
and passage of the title to the buyer occurs; (3) the sale price is fixed or determinable; and (4) collection is reasonably assured. Revenues that are not recognized at the time of sale because the foregoing conditions are not met are
recognized when those conditions are subsequently met. When applicable, we reduce revenues for estimated returns or certain other incentive programs where we have the ability to sufficiently estimate the effects of these items. Where an arrangement
is subject to acceptance criteria and the acceptance provisions are not perfunctory (for example, acceptance provisions that are long-term in nature or are not included as standard terms of an arrangement), revenues are recognized upon the earlier
of receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period.      Our hardware systems support offerings generally provide
customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of our systems and storage products and can also include product repairs, maintenance services, and technical support services. Hardware systems
support contracts are entered into at the customer s option and are recognized ratably over the contractual term of the arrangements.   
   Revenue Recognition for Multiple-Element Arrangements Hardware Systems Products and Hardware Systems Related Services (Nonsoftware Arrangements)
      In the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we early adopted the provisions of Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-13,  Revenue
Recognition (Topic 605) Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements  (ASU 2009-13) and Accounting Standards Update 2009-14,  Software (Topic 985) Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements  (ASU 2009-14). ASU 2009-13
amended existing accounting guidance for revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements. To the extent a deliverable within a multiple-element arrangement is not accounted for pursuant to other accounting standards, including ASC 985-605,
 Software-Revenue Recognition,  ASU 2009-13 establishes a selling price hierarchy that allows for the use of an estimated selling price (ESP) to determine the allocation of arrangement consideration to a deliverable in a multiple element
arrangement where neither VSOE nor third-party evidence (TPE) is available for that deliverable. ASU 2009-14 modifies the scope of ASC 985-605 to exclude tangible products containing software components and nonsoftware components that function
together to deliver the product s essential functionality. In addition, ASU 2009-14 provides guidance on how a vendor should allocate arrangement consideration to nonsoftware and software deliverables in an arrangement where the vendor sells
tangible products containing software components that are essential in delivering the tangible product s functionality.      As a result of
our early adoption of ASU 2009-13 and ASU 2009-14, we applied the provisions of these accounting standards updates as of the beginning of fiscal 2010. The impact of our adoption of ASU 2009-13 and ASU 2009-14 was not material to our results of
operations for fiscal 2010.      We enter into arrangements with customers that purchase both nonsoftware related products and services from us at
the same time, or within close proximity of one another (referred to as nonsoftware multiple-element arrangements). Each element within a nonsoftware multiple-element arrangement is accounted for as a separate unit of accounting provided the
following criteria are met: the delivered products or services have value to the customer on a standalone basis; and for an arrangement that includes a general right of return relative to the delivered products or services, delivery or performance
of the undelivered product or service is considered probable and is substantially controlled by us. We consider a deliverable to have standalone value if the product or service is sold separately by us or another vendor or could be resold by the
customer. Further, our revenue arrangements generally do not include a general right of return relative to the delivered products. Where the aforementioned criteria for a separate unit of accounting are not met, the deliverable is combined with the
        
   39   

Table of Contents  

undelivered element(s) and treated as a single unit of accounting for the purposes of allocation of the arrangement consideration and revenue recognition. For those units of accounting that
include more than one deliverable but are treated as a single unit of accounting, we generally recognize revenues over the delivery period. For the purposes of revenue classification of the elements that are accounted for as a single unit of
accounting, we allocate revenue to hardware systems and services based on a rational and consistent methodology utilizing our best estimate of fair value of such elements.   
  For our nonsoftware multiple-element arrangements, we allocate revenue to each element based on a selling price hierarchy at the arrangement inception.
The selling price for each element is based upon the following selling price hierarchy: VSOE if available, TPE if VSOE is not available, or ESP if neither VSOE nor TPE is available (a description as to how we determine VSOE, TPE and ESP is provided
below). If a tangible hardware systems product includes software, we determine whether the tangible hardware systems product and the software work together to deliver the product s essential functionality and, if so, the entire product is
treated as a nonsoftware deliverable. The total arrangement consideration is allocated to each separate unit of accounting for each of the nonsoftware deliverables using the relative selling prices of each unit based on the aforementioned selling
price hierarchy. We limit the amount of revenue recognized for delivered elements to an amount that is not contingent upon future delivery of additional products or services or meeting of any specified performance conditions.   
  To determine the selling price in multiple-element arrangements, we establish VSOE of selling price using the price charged for a deliverable when sold
separately and for software license updates and product support and hardware systems support, based on the renewal rates offered to customers. For nonsoftware multiple element arrangements, TPE is established by evaluating similar and
interchangeable competitor products or services in standalone arrangements with similarly situated customers. If we are unable to determine the selling price because VSOE or TPE doesn t exist, we determine ESP for the purposes of allocating the
arrangement by considering several external and internal factors including, but not limited to, pricing practices, margin objectives, competition, geographies in which we offer our products and services, internal costs and stage of the product
lifecycle. The determination of ESP is made through consultation with and approval by our management, taking into consideration our go-to-market strategy. As our, or our competitors , pricing and go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify
our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes to our determination of VSOE, TPE and ESP. As a result, our future revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements could differ materially from our results in the current
period. Selling prices are analyzed on an annual basis or more frequently if we experience significant changes in our selling prices.   
   Revenue Recognition Policies Applicable to both Software and Nonsoftware Elements    
   Revenue Recognition for Multiple-Element Arrangements  Arrangements with Software and Nonsoftware Elements    
  We also enter into multiple-element arrangements that may include a combination of our various software related and nonsoftware related products and
services offerings including hardware systems products, hardware systems support, new software licenses, software license updates and product support, consulting, On Demand and education. In such arrangements, we first allocate the total arrangement
consideration based on the relative selling prices of the software group of elements as a whole and to the nonsoftware elements. We then further allocate consideration within the software group to the respective elements within that group following
the guidance in ASC 985-605 and our policies described above. After the arrangement consideration has been allocated to the elements, we account for each respective element in the arrangement as described above.   
   Other Revenue Recognition Policies Applicable to Software and Nonsoftware Elements    
  Many of our software arrangements include consulting implementation services sold separately under consulting engagement contracts and are included as a
part of our services business. Consulting revenues from these arrangements are generally accounted for separately from new software license revenues because the arrangements qualify as services transactions as defined in ASC 985-605. The more
significant factors considered in determining whether the revenues should be accounted for separately include the nature of services (i.e. consideration of whether the services are essential to the functionality of the licensed product), degree of
risk, availability of services from other vendors, timing of payments and impact of milestones or acceptance         
   40   

Table of Contents  

criteria on the realizability of the software license fee. Revenues for consulting services are generally recognized as the services are performed. If there is a significant uncertainty about the
project completion or receipt of payment for the consulting services, revenues are deferred until the uncertainty is sufficiently resolved. We estimate the proportional performance on contracts with fixed or  not to exceed  fees on a
monthly basis utilizing hours incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated hours to complete the project. If we do not have a sufficient basis to measure progress towards completion, revenues are recognized when we receive final acceptance
from the customer. When total cost estimates exceed revenues, we accrue for the estimated losses immediately using cost estimates that are based upon an average fully burdened daily rate applicable to the consulting organization delivering the
services. The complexity of the estimation process and factors relating to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the proportional performance method of accounting affects the amounts of revenues and related
expenses reported in our consolidated financial statements. A number of internal and external factors can affect our estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency variances and specification and testing requirement changes.
     On Demand is comprised of Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer Services and is a part of our services business. Oracle On Demand services
are offered as standalone arrangements or as a part of arrangements to customers buying new software licenses or hardware systems products and services. Our On Demand services provide multi-featured software and hardware management and maintenance
services for our software and hardware systems products delivered at our data center facilities, select partner data centers or customer facilities. Advanced Customer Services provide customers with services to architect, implement and manage
customer IT environments including software and hardware systems product management services, industry-specific solution support centers and remote and on-site expert services. Depending upon the nature of the arrangement, revenues from On Demand
services are recognized as services are performed or ratably over the term of the service period, which is generally one year or less.   
  Education revenues are a part of our services business and include instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our software and
hardware products. Education revenues are recognized as the classes or other education offerings are delivered.      If an arrangement contains
multiple elements and does not qualify for separate accounting for the product and service transactions, then new software license revenues and/or hardware systems products revenues, including the costs of hardware systems products, are generally
recognized together with the services based on contract accounting using either the percentage-of-completion or completed-contract method. Contract accounting is applied to any bundled software, hardware systems and services arrangements:
(1) that include milestones or customer specific acceptance criteria that may affect collection of the software license or hardware systems product fees; (2) where consulting services include significant modification or customization of
the software or hardware systems product; (3) where significant consulting services are provided for in the software license contract or hardware systems product contract without additional charge or are substantially discounted; or
(4) where the software license or hardware systems product payment is tied to the performance of consulting services. For the purposes of revenue classification of the elements that are accounted for as a single unit of accounting, we allocate
revenues to software and nonsoftware elements based on a rational and consistent methodology utilizing our best estimate of fair value of such elements.   
  We also evaluate arrangements with governmental entities containing  fiscal funding  or  termination for convenience  provisions, when
such provisions are required by law, to determine the probability of possible cancellation. We consider multiple factors, including the history with the customer in similar transactions, the  essential use  of the software or hardware
systems products and the planning, budgeting and approval processes undertaken by the governmental entity. If we determine upon execution of these arrangements that the likelihood of cancellation is remote, we then recognize revenues once all of the
criteria described above have been met. If such a determination cannot be made, revenues are recognized upon the earlier of cash receipt or approval of the applicable funding provision by the governmental entity.   
  We assess whether fees are fixed or determinable at the time of sale and recognize revenues if all other revenue recognition requirements are met. Our
standard payment terms are net 30 days. However, payment terms may vary based on the country in which the agreement is executed. Payments that are due within six months are   
     
   41   

Table of Contents  

generally deemed to be fixed or determinable based on our successful collection history on such arrangements, and thereby satisfy the required criteria for revenue recognition.   
  While most of our arrangements for sales within our software and hardware systems businesses include short-term payment terms, we have a standard practice
of providing long-term financing to creditworthy customers through our financing division. Since fiscal 1989, when our financing division was formed, we have established a history of collection, without concessions, on these receivables with payment
terms that generally extend up to five years from the contract date. Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize new software license revenues and hardware systems products revenues for these arrangements upon
delivery, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions. We have generally sold receivables financed through our financing division on a non-recourse basis to third party financing institutions and we classify the proceeds from these
sales as cash flows from operating activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. We account for the sales of these receivables as  true sales  as defined in ASC 860,  Transfers and Servicing .   
  In addition, we sell hardware products to leasing companies that, in turn, lease these products to end-users. In transactions where the leasing companies
have no recourse to us in the event of default by the end-user, we recognize revenue at point of shipment or point of delivery, depending on the shipping terms and if all the other revenue recognition criteria have been met. In arrangements where
the leasing companies have more than insignificant recourse to us in the event of default by the end-user (defined as recourse leasing), we recognize both the product revenue and the related cost of the product as the payments are made to the
leasing company by the end-user, generally ratably over the lease term.      Our customers include several of our suppliers and on rare occasion,
we have purchased goods or services for our operations from these vendors at or about the same time that we have sold our products to these same companies (Concurrent Transactions). Software license agreements or sales of hardware systems that occur
within a three-month time period from the date we have purchased goods or services from that same customer are reviewed for appropriate accounting treatment and disclosure. When we acquire goods or services from a customer, we negotiate the purchase
separately from any sales transaction, at terms we consider to be at arm s length, and settle the purchase in cash. We recognize new software license revenues or hardware systems product revenues from Concurrent Transactions if all of our
revenue recognition criteria are met and the goods and services acquired are necessary for our current operations.        Business
Combinations        In fiscal 2010, we adopted ASC 805,  Business Combinations , which revised the accounting guidance that we were
required to apply for our acquisitions in comparison to prior fiscal years. The underlying principles are similar to the previous guidance and require that we recognize separately from goodwill the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at
their acquisition date fair values. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best
estimates and assumptions as a part of the purchase price allocation process to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during
the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final
determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of operations.   
  As a result of adopting the revised accounting guidance provided for by ASC 805 as of the beginning of fiscal 2010, certain of our policies differ when
accounting for acquisitions in fiscal 2010 and prospective periods in comparison to the accounting for acquisitions in fiscal 2009 and prior periods, including:       

the fair value of in-process research and development is recorded as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until the underlying project is completed, at
which time the intangible asset is amortized over its estimated useful life, or abandoned, at which time the intangible asset is expensed (prior to fiscal 2010, in-process research and development was expensed as of the acquisition date);
           
   42   

Table of Contents  

the direct transaction costs associated with a business combination are expensed as incurred (prior to fiscal 2010, direct transaction costs were
included as part of the purchase price);          

the costs to exit or restructure certain activities of an acquired company are accounted for separately from the business combination (prior to fiscal
2010, restructuring and exist costs were included as a part of the assumed obligations in deriving the purchase price allocation); and          

any changes in estimates associated with income tax valuation allowances or uncertain tax positions after the measurement period are generally
recognized as income tax expense with application of this policy also applied prospectively to all of our business combinations regardless of the acquisition date (prior to fiscal 2010, any such changes in estimates associated with income taxes were
generally included as a part of the purchase price allocation indefinitely).         Accounting for business combinations requires
our management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date with respect to intangible assets, support obligations assumed, estimated restructuring liabilities and pre-acquisition contingencies. Although we
believe the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain.
     Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired include but are not limited to:   

future expected cash flows from software license sales, hardware systems product sales, support agreements, consulting contracts, other customer
contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents;          

expected costs to develop the in-process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when
completed;          

the acquired company s brand and competitive position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand will continue to be used
in the combined company s product portfolio; and          

discount rates.      
  Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results.   
  In connection with the purchase price allocations for our acquisitions, we estimate the fair value of both software license updates and product support
and hardware systems support obligations assumed. The estimated fair values of these support obligations are determined utilizing a cost build-up approach. The cost build-up approach determines fair value by estimating the costs related to
fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. The estimated costs to fulfill the support obligations are based on the historical direct costs related to providing the support services and to correct any errors in the products acquired. The
sum of these costs and operating profit approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to assume the support obligation. We do not include any costs associated with selling efforts or research and development or
the related fulfillment margins on these costs. Profit associated with any selling efforts is excluded because the acquired entities would have concluded those selling efforts on the support contracts prior to the acquisition date. We also do not
include the estimated research and development costs in our fair value determinations, as these costs are not deemed to represent a legal obligation at the time of acquisition.   
  As a result, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amounts of $86 million, $243
million and $179 million that would have been otherwise recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, we did not recognize hardware systems support revenues related to hardware
systems support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by Sun as an independent entity in the amount of $128 million for fiscal 2010. Historically, substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew
their software license updates and product support contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal and we intend to focus our efforts on renewing acquired hardware systems support contracts. To the extent software support or hardware systems
support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of the support contracts over the support periods, the substantial majority of which are one year.   
     
   43   

Table of Contents  

   In connection with a business combination, we estimate costs associated with restructuring plans committed
to by our management. Restructuring costs are typically comprised of employee severance costs, costs of consolidating duplicate facilities and contract termination costs. Restructuring expenses are based upon plans that have been committed to by our
management, but may be refined in subsequent periods. As noted above, we account for costs to exit or restructure certain activities of an acquired company separately from the business combination. These costs are accounted for as one-time
termination and exit costs pursuant to ASC 420,  Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations . A liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity is recognized and measured at its fair value in our consolidated statement of operations in
the period in which the liability is incurred. When estimating the fair value of facility restructuring activities, assumptions are applied regarding estimated sub-lease payments to be received, which can differ materially from actual results. This
may require us to revise our initial estimates which may materially affect our results of operations and financial position in the period the revision is made.   
  For a given acquisition, we may identify certain pre-acquisition contingencies as of the acquisition date and may extend our review and evaluation of
these pre-acquisition contingencies throughout the measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition date) in order to obtain sufficient information to assess whether we include these contingencies as a part of the purchase price allocation
and, if so, to determine their estimated amounts.      If we determine that a pre-acquisition contingency (non-income tax related) is probable in
nature and estimable as of the acquisition date, we record our best estimate for such a contingency as a part of the preliminary purchase price allocation. We often continue to gather information for and evaluate our pre-acquisition contingencies
throughout the measurement period and if we make changes to the amounts recorded or if we identify additional pre-acquisition contingencies during the measurement period, such amounts will be included in the purchase price allocation during the
measurement period and, subsequently, in our results of operations.      In addition, uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances
assumed in connection with a business combination are initially estimated as of the acquisition date and we reevaluate these items quarterly with any adjustments to our preliminary estimates being recorded to goodwill provided that we are within the
measurement period and we continue to collect information in order to determine their estimated values. Subsequent to the measurement period or our final determination of the uncertain tax positions estimated value or tax related valuation
allowances, changes to these uncertain tax positions  and tax related valuation allowances will affect our provision for income taxes in our consolidated statement of operations and could have a material impact on our results of operations and
financial position.        Goodwill and Intangible Assets Impairment Assessments     
  We review goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate its carrying value may not be recoverable in
accordance with ASC 350,  Intangibles Goodwill and Other . The provisions of ASC 350 require that a two-step impairment test be performed on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying
value. Our reporting units are consistent with the reportable segments identified in Note16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit,
goodwill is not considered impaired and we are not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the
impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting unit s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then we would record an impairment loss equal to the
difference.      Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and
assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. We base our fair
value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. In addition, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets
and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each of our reporting units. Our most recent annual goodwill impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, did not result in an impairment charge, nor did we
record any goodwill impairment in fiscal 2009 or 2008.         
   44   

Table of Contents  

   We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased finite lived intangible assets whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. Each period we evaluate the estimated remaining useful lives of purchased intangible assets and whether events or changes in circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining periods of
amortization. Recoverability of finite lived intangible assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. We review indefinite lived intangible assets for
impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of indefinite lived intangible assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the future
discounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset.   
  Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives of our intangible and other long-lived assets are complex and subjective. They
can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. Although we believe the historical assumptions and
estimates we have made are reasonable and appropriate, different assumptions and estimates could materially impact our reported financial results. We did not recognize any intangible asset impairment charges in fiscal 2010, 2009 or 2008.   
    Accounting for Income Taxes     
  Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many
transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of revenue sharing and cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities, the process of identifying items of revenues
and expenses that qualify for preferential tax treatment, and segregation of foreign and domestic earnings and expenses to avoid double taxation. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the final tax outcome of these matters could be
different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which such determination is made.   
  Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes have been provided because such earnings are
planned to be indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Remittances of foreign earnings to the U.S. are planned based on projected cash flow, working capital and investment needs of our foreign and domestic operations. Based on these
assumptions, we estimate the amount that will be distributed to the U.S. and provide U.S. federal taxes on these amounts. Material changes in our estimates or tax legislation that limits or restricts the amount of undistributed foreign earnings that
we consider indefinitely reinvested outside the United States could materially impact our income tax provision and effective tax rate.      We
record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in those
jurisdictions where the deferred tax assets are located. We consider future growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate, historical earnings, taxable income in prior years, if
carryback is permitted under the law, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in determining the need for a valuation allowance. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax
assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets valuation allowance would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such a determination, or goodwill would be adjusted at our final determination of the valuation allowance
related to an acquisition within the measurement period. If we later determine that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets would be realized, we would reverse the applicable portion of the previously provided valuation allowance
as an adjustment to earnings at such time.      We calculate our current and deferred tax provision based on estimates and assumptions that could
differ from the actual results reflected in income tax returns filed during the subsequent year. Adjustments based on filed returns are generally recorded in the period when the tax returns are filed and the global tax implications are known, which
can materially impact our effective tax rate.      The amount of income tax we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax
authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Our estimate of the potential outcome for any uncertain tax issue is highly   
     
   45   

Table of Contents  

judgmental. A description of our accounting policies associated with tax related contingencies assumed as a part of a business combination is provided under  Business Combinations 
above. For those tax related contingencies that are not a part of a business combination, we account for these uncertain tax issues pursuant to ASC 740,  Income Taxes , which contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain
tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The first step is to determine if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of any
related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax
positions, no assurance can be given with respect to the final outcome of these matters. We adjust reserves for our uncertain tax positions due to changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, judicial rulings, refinement of
estimates or realization of earnings or deductions that differ from our estimates. To the extent that the final outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences generally will impact our provision for income taxes in
the period in which such a determination is made. Our provisions for income taxes include the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate and also include the related interest and penalties.   
  In addition, as a part of our accounting for business combinations, some of the purchase price is allocated to goodwill and intangible assets. Impairment
charges associated with goodwill are generally not tax deductible and will result in an increased effective income tax rate in the period that any impairment is recorded. Amortization expenses associated with acquired intangible assets are generally
not tax deductible pursuant to our existing tax structure; however, deferred taxes have been recorded for non-deductible amortization expenses as a part of the purchase price allocation process. We have taken into account the allocation of these
identified intangibles among different taxing jurisdictions, including those with nominal or zero percent tax rates, in establishing the related deferred tax liabilities.   
    Legal and Other Contingencies        We
are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. Quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. A description of our accounting policies associated with contingencies assumed as
a part of a business combination is provided under  Business Combinations  above. For legal and other contingencies that are not a part of a business combination, we accrue a liability for an estimated loss if the potential loss from any
claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether the amount of an exposure is reasonably
estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to our pending claims and
litigation and may revise our estimates. Such revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.   
    Stock-Based Compensation        We
account for share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock awards and purchases under employee stock purchase plans in accordance with ASC 718,  Compensation Stock Compensation,  which requires that share-based
payments (to the extent they are compensatory) be recognized in our consolidated statements of operations based on their fair values. In addition, we have applied certain of the provisions of the SEC s guidance contained in ASC 718, in our
accounting for stock-based compensation awards.      We are required to estimate the stock awards that we ultimately expect to vest and to reduce
stock-based compensation expense for the effects of estimated forfeitures of awards over the expense recognition period. Although we estimate the rate of future forfeitures upon historical experience, actual forfeitures in the future may differ. In
addition, to the extent our actual forfeitures are different than our estimates, we record a true-up for the difference in the period that the awards vest, and such true-ups could materially affect our operating results.   
  As required by ASC 718, we recognize stock-based compensation expense for share-based payments that are expected to vest. In determining whether an award
is expected to vest, we use an estimated, forward-looking forfeiture rate based upon our historical forfeiture rates. Stock-based compensation expense recorded using an   
     
   46   

Table of Contents  

estimated forfeiture rate is updated for actual forfeitures quarterly. We also consider on a quarterly basis whether there have been any significant changes in facts and circumstances that would
affect our expected forfeiture rate.      We estimate the fair values of employee stock options using a Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model. The
fair value of an award is affected by our stock price on the date of grant as well as other assumptions including the estimated volatility of our stock price over the term of the awards and the estimated period of time that we expect employees to
hold their stock options. The risk-free interest rate assumption we use is based upon United States treasury interest rates appropriate for the expected life of the awards. We use the implied volatility of our publicly traded, longest-term options
in order to estimate future stock price trends as we believe that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. In order to determine the estimated period of time that we expect employees to hold
their stock options, we have used historical rates of employee groups by seniority of job classification. Our expected dividend rate is based upon an annualized dividend yield based on the per share dividend declared by our Board of Directors. The
aforementioned inputs entered into the option valuation model we use to fair value our stock awards are subjective estimates and changes to these estimates will cause the fair values of our stock awards and related stock-based compensation expense
that we record to vary.      We record deferred tax assets for stock-based awards that result in deductions on our income tax returns, based on the
amount of stock-based compensation recognized and the fair values attributable to the vested portion of stock awards assumed in connection with a business combination, at the statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which we will receive a tax
deduction. Because the deferred tax assets we record are based upon the stock-based compensation expenses in a particular jurisdiction, the aforementioned inputs that affect the fair values of our stock awards may also indirectly affect our income
tax expense. In addition, differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on our income tax returns are recorded in additional paid-in capital. If the tax deduction is
less than the deferred tax asset, the calculated shortfall reduces our pool of excess tax benefits. If the pool of excess tax benefits is reduced to zero, then subsequent shortfalls would increase our income tax expense. Our pool of excess tax
benefits is computed in accordance with the alternative transition method pursuant to ASC 718.      To the extent we change the terms of our
employee stock-based compensation programs, experience market volatility in the pricing of our common stock that increases the implied volatility calculation of our publicly traded, longest-term options, refine different assumptions in future
periods such as forfeiture rates that differ from our current estimates, or assume stock awards from acquired companies that are different in nature than our stock award arrangements, amongst other potential impacts, the stock-based compensation
expense that we record in future periods and the tax benefits that we realize may differ significantly from what we have recorded in previous reporting periods.   
    Allowances for Doubtful Accounts     
  We make judgments as to our ability to collect outstanding receivables and provide allowances for the portion of receivables when collection becomes
doubtful. Provisions are made based upon a specific review of all significant outstanding invoices. For those invoices not specifically reviewed, provisions are provided at differing rates, based upon the age of the receivable, the collection
history associated with the geographic region that the receivable was recorded and current economic trends. If the historical data we use to calculate the allowances for doubtful accounts does not reflect the future ability to collect outstanding
receivables, additional provisions for doubtful accounts may be needed and our future results of operations could be materially affected.   
   Results of Operations         Impact of
Acquisitions        The comparability of our operating results in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 is impacted by our acquisitions,
primarily the acquisition of Sun in our third quarter of fiscal 2010.      The comparability of our operating results in fiscal 2009 compared to
fiscal 2008 is impacted by our acquisitions, primarily the acquisition of BEA Systems, Inc. in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.         
   47   

Table of Contents  

   In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009, and
fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008, we quantify the contribution of our acquired products to the growth in new software license revenues, software license updates and product support revenues, hardware systems products revenues (as applicable) and
hardware systems support revenues (as applicable) for the one year period subsequent to the acquisition date. We also are able to quantify the total incremental expenses associated with our hardware systems products and hardware systems support
operating segments. For fiscal 2010, we include estimates of Sun s contributions to our total revenues and total operating income. These Sun estimates are based in part on management s estimates and allocations of Sun s direct revenue
and expense contributions which cannot be separately identified as a result of our ongoing integration of the Sun and Oracle businesses. The incremental contributions of our other acquisitions to our other businesses and operating segments 
revenues and expenses are not provided as they either were not separately identifiable due to the integration of these operating segments into our existing operations and/or were insignificant to our results of operations during the periods
presented.      We caution readers that, while pre- and post-acquisition comparisons as well as the quantified amounts themselves may provide
indications of general trends, the acquisition information that we provide has inherent limitations for the following reasons:       

the quantifications cannot address the substantial effects attributable to changes in business strategies, including our sales force integration
efforts. We believe that if our acquired companies had operated independently and sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of products sold would have been different; and      

although substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software license updates and product support
contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal and we intend to focus our efforts on renewing hardware systems support contracts, the amounts shown as software license updates and product support deferred revenues and hardware systems support
deferred revenues in our supplemental disclosure related to certain charges and gains (presented below) are not necessarily indicative of revenue improvements we will achieve upon contract renewal to the extent customers do not renew.
          Constant Currency Presentation     
  Our international operations have provided and will continue to provide a significant portion of our total revenues and expenses. As a result, total
revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign
currency fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Annual Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities
reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e. the rates in effect on May 31, 2009, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in
effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on May 31, 2010 and May 31, 2009, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of
$1.22 million in fiscal 2010 (using 1.22 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.39 million in fiscal 2009 (using 1.39 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation would translate
the fiscal 2010 results using the fiscal 2009 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency
and in constant currency.         
   48   

Table of Contents  

     Total Revenues and Operating Expenses     

(1)   
    Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa          

(2)   
    Asia Pacific includes Japan          

*  
  Not meaningful          Fiscal 2010 Compared to
Fiscal 2009:      Our total revenues and operating margin for fiscal 2010 were favorably impacted by the movement of the U.S. Dollar relative to other major currencies. Total revenues increased in fiscal 2010 due to an
estimated $2.8 billion revenue contribution from Sun, primarily in our hardware systems business, and an increase in our total software revenues resulting from growth in our new software licenses revenues and our software license updates and product
support revenues. These increases were partially offset by a constant currency decrease in our total services revenues that we believe was caused by weaker demand for IT services due to the deterioration in global economic conditions in recent
periods. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 55%, EMEA contributed 32% and APAC contributed 13% to our total revenues growth.   
  Excluding the unfavorable effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in total operating expenses in fiscal 2010 was due to additional operating
expenses incurred as a result of our acquisition of Sun, including increased expenses pertaining to hardware systems products sold and related hardware systems support offerings, additional employee related expenses including additional stock-based
compensation, and an increase in intangible asset amortization. In addition, we also incurred increased restructuring expenses resulting from our Sun Restructuring Plan and legacy Oracle-based restructuring plans. These increases were partially
offset by expense reductions in our legacy Oracle-based operations including expense reductions in our services business, reductions in bad debt expenses due to improved collections and reductions to travel expenses due to cost management
initiatives.         
   49   

Table of Contents  

   On a constant currency basis, our operating margin increased during fiscal 2010 due to higher revenues from
our software business, partially offset by an estimated $620 million reduction to our operating income from Sun. Our operating margin as a percentage of revenues declined in fiscal 2010 due to the post-combination expense contributions from our new
hardware systems business and due to our acquisition related expenses, restructuring expenses and amortization of intangible assets, which increased at a faster rate than our total revenues, primarily due to Sun.   
    Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:          Our operating results for fiscal 2009 were unfavorably impacted by
the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to other major international currencies. These currency variances resulted in a reduction to our total revenues growth of 6 percentage points during fiscal 2009. On a constant currency basis, total
revenues increased in fiscal 2009 primarily due to higher software license update and product support revenues in all regions and incremental revenues from our recent acquisitions, primarily our acquisition of BEA. On a constant currency basis, new
software license revenues contributed 5% to the growth in total revenues, software license updates and product support revenues contributed 92% and services revenues contributed 3%. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas
contributed 39% to the increase in total revenues, EMEA contributed 42% and Asia Pacific contributed 19%.      Favorable currency variances
resulted in a reduction to our total operating expense growth of 5 percentage points during fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in operating expenses in fiscal 2009 is primarily due to higher salary expenses
associated with increased headcount levels from acquisitions (primarily BEA) and higher amortization of intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions (primarily BEA). In addition, acquisition related and other expenses increased during fiscal
2009 due to a $57 million gain on property sale recognized in fiscal 2008, which decreased our net operating expenses in that period. These increases were partially offset by constant currency decreases in our variable compensation expenses.
     Currency variances resulted in a reduction of 9 percentage points to our total operating margin growth during fiscal 2009. On a constant
currency basis, total operating margin and total operating margin as a percentage of total revenues increased during fiscal 2009 as the growth rate of our total revenues exceeded the growth rate of our total operating expenses. The growth rate in
our total operating expenses was significantly impacted by the growth rate in our intangible asset amortization, which was primarily due to intangible assets acquired as a part of the BEA transaction, and to a lesser extent, our restructuring
expenses growth.       Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges and Gains and Estimated Sun Margin Contribution    
  To supplement our consolidated financial information we believe the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial
performance and prospects for the future. You should review the introduction under  Impact of Acquisitions  (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information.   
  Our operating results include the following business combination accounting adjustments and expenses related to acquisitions as well as certain other
significant expense and income items:       
       
   50   

Table of Contents  

(1)   
    In connection with purchase price allocations related to our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the software support and hardware
systems support obligations assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by
the acquired businesses as independent entities, in the amounts of $86 million, $243 million and $179 million in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. In addition, we did not recognize hardware systems support revenues related to
hardware systems support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by Sun as an independent entity in the amount of $128 million for fiscal 2010.      
  Approximately $61 million and $25 million of estimated software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts
assumed will not be recognized during fiscal 2011, fiscal 2012 and beyond, respectively, that would have otherwise been recognized by the acquired businesses as independent entities due to the application of these business combination accounting
rules. In addition, approximately $148 million, $35 million and $11 million of estimated hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts assumed will not be recognized during fiscal 2011, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013,
respectively, that would have otherwise been recognized by Sun as an independent entity. To the extent customers renew these support contracts, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contract value over the support renewal period.   

(  2  )
   
    Represents the effects of fair value adjustments to our inventories acquired from Sun that were sold to customers in the periods presented. Business
combination accounting rules require us to account for inventories assumed from our acquisitions at their fair values. The $29 million included in the hardware systems products expenses line in the table above is intended to reflect our hardware
systems products expenses that would have been otherwise recorded by Sun as a standalone entity upon the sale of these inventories. If we acquire inventories in future acquisitions, we will be required to assess their fair values, which may result
in fair value adjustments to those inventories.          

(  3  )
   
    Represents the amortization of intangible assets acquired in connection with our acquisitions, primarily Sun Microsystems, Inc., BEA Systems, Inc.,
Hyperion Solutions Corporation, Siebel Systems, Inc. and PeopleSoft, Inc. As of May 31, 2010, estimated future amortization expenses related to intangible assets were as follows (in millions):      

(  4  )
   
    Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, stock-based
compensation expenses, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments after the measurement period or purchase price allocation period has ended, and certain other operating expenses, net. For fiscal 2008,
acquisition related and other expenses include a gain on property sale of $57 million. As a result of our adoption of ASC 805,  Business Combinations , as of the beginning of fiscal 2010, certain acquisition related and other expenses are now
recorded as expenses in our statements of operations that had been historically included as a part of the consideration transferred and capitalized as a part of our accounting for acquisitions pursuant to previous accounting rules, primarily direct
transaction costs such as professional services fees (see further discussion under  Business Combinations  within the  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  section above).      

(  5  )
   
    Substantially all restructuring expenses during fiscal 2010 relate to employee severance, facility exit costs and contract termination costs in
connection with our Fiscal 2009 Oracle Restructuring Plan and our Sun Restructuring Plan. Restructuring expenses during fiscal 2009 primarily relate to costs incurred pursuant to the Fiscal 2009 Oracle Restructuring Plan and the Fiscal 2008 Oracle
Restructuring Plan. Restructuring expenses incurred during fiscal 2008 primarily relate to costs incurred pursuant to the Fiscal 2008 Oracle Restructuring Plan. As a result of our adoption of ASC 805,  Business Combinations  as of the beginning
of fiscal 2010, in connection with any acquisition that we close we will record involuntary termination and other exit costs associated with the acquisition to restructuring expenses, which is a change in the required accounting in comparison to
fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008. See further discussion regarding certain of our restructuring plans in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.      
     
   51   

Table of Contents  

(  6  )
   
    Stock-based compensation is included in the following operating expense line items of our consolidated statements of operations (in millions):
         
    Stock-based compensation included in acquisition
related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those options and restricted
stock-based awards.       

(  7  )
   
    The income tax effects presented were calculated as if the above described charges were not included in our results of operations for each of the
respective periods presented. Income tax effects were calculated based on the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to the expense and income items within the table above and resulted in an effective tax rate of 27.1% for fiscal 2010 instead
of 25.6%, which represented our effective tax rate as derived per our consolidated statement of operations, due to differences in jurisdictional tax rates and related tax benefits attributable to our restructuring expenses in fiscal 2010. The
difference in fiscal 2010 was also due to income tax effects related to acquired tax exposures. Income tax effects were calculated reflecting an effective tax rate of 28.7% for fiscal 2009 instead of 28.6%, which represented our effective tax rate
as derived per our consolidated statement of operations, due to the exclusion of the tax effect of an adjustment to our non-current deferred tax liability associated with acquired intangible assets. Income tax effects presented for fiscal 2008 were
calculated based on our effective tax rate of 29.5%, which was consistent with our tax rate as derived per our consolidated statement of operations.          

(  8) 
  
    For fiscal 2010, the estimated operating loss contribution from Sun was calculated based upon the margin contribution of our hardware systems business
for fiscal 2010, the allocation of revenues and expenses from our software and services businesses that we estimate were attributable to Sun during fiscal 2010 and the allocation of certain other operating expenses including research and development
expenses, an allocation of general and administrative expenses, amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expenses, an allocation of acquisition related and other expenses and an allocation of restructuring expenses that we
estimated were attributable to Sun during fiscal 2010. Our estimated operating income contribution from Sun, as adjusted, excludes certain of these charges as further presented in the reconciliation below.      
  A reconciliation of the margin contribution of our hardware systems business as presented in our discussion of our operational results to
our measures of estimated operating loss contribution from Sun and our estimated operating income contribution from Sun, as adjusted, was as follows for fiscal 2010 (in millions):   

52   

Table of Contents  

(  a  )
   
    Obtained or derived from the total margin of, and other expenses allocated to, our hardware systems businesses as reported in our results of operations
for our hardware systems business. Our hardware systems business  direct revenues and expenses, net, prior to adjustment include fair value adjustments of $128 million related to our hardware systems support revenues and $29 million related to
our hardware systems products expenses. As adjusted, our hardware systems business  direct revenues and expenses, net, exclude these fair value adjustments and also exclude an allocation of stock-based compensation and amortization of
intangible assets. Refer to footnotes (1), (2), (3) and (6) above for additional discussion related to these excluded items.          

(  b  )
   
    Represents management s estimated allocation of Sun s direct revenues and expenses contributions to our software and services businesses. Our
allocation before adjustments includes the following that we attribute to Sun: amortization of intangible assets of $59 million, fair value adjustments of $41 million related to our software license updates and product support revenues, and
stock-based compensation of $3 million. Our allocation of margin from other Sun businesses, as adjusted, excludes these items. Refer to footnotes (1), (3) and (6) above for additional discussion related to these excluded items.

(  c  )
   
    Represents management s estimated research and development expenses attributable to Sun and management s estimated allocation of general and
administrative expenses and other attributable to Sun, and includes $7 million and $3 million of stock-based compensation, respectively, prior to adjustment. These items were excluded from the as adjusted numbers presented. See further discussion
regarding these excluded items in footnote (6) above.          

(  d  )
   
    Represents management s estimated allocation of Sun acquisition related and other expenses and Sun restructuring expenses, prior to adjustment.
These items were excluded from the as adjusted numbers presented. See further discussion regarding these excluded items in footnotes (4), (5) and (6) above.      
     
   53   

Table of Contents  

    Software Business    
  Our software business consists of our new software licenses segment and software license updates and product support segment.   
    New Software Licenses:      New software license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use
our database and middleware as well as our application software products. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market our products through
indirect channels. Sales and marketing expenses are largely personnel related and include commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our software products, and also include marketing program costs and amortization of intangible assets.

(1)   
    Excluding stock-based compensation          

(2)   
    Included as a component of  Amortization of Intangible Assets  in our consolidated statements of operations      
    Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009:      Excluding the effect of favorable foreign currency rate fluctuations of 2
percentage points, total new software license revenues increased by 4% in fiscal 2010 due to growth in the Americas region and incremental revenues from our acquisitions.   
  In constant currency, database and middleware revenues and applications revenues increased by 4% and 5% in fiscal 2010, respectively, primarily due to
growth in the second half of fiscal 2010 resulting from improved customer demand, our sales force s execution and incremental revenues from our acquisitions. In reported currency, our acquisition of Sun contributed $188 million, GoldenGate
contributed $78 million and other recent acquisitions contributed $21 million to the growth in our database and middleware revenues during fiscal 2010. Our recent acquisitions contributed $39 million to our fiscal 2010 applications revenues growth.
        
   54   

Table of Contents  

   In reported currency, new software license revenues earned from transactions over $0.5 million increased by
2% in fiscal 2010 and represented 49% of our new software license revenues in fiscal 2010 in comparison to 50% in fiscal 2009.      Excluding the
effect of unfavorable foreign currency rate fluctuations, total new software license expenses increased in fiscal 2010 primarily due to higher variable compensation expenses and related payroll taxes resulting from higher revenues and due to
additional operating expenses as a result of the Sun acquisition. These increases were partially offset by lower travel and entertainment expenses and marketing communication expenses as a result of cost management initiatives.   
  Excluding the effect of favorable foreign currency rate fluctuations of 4 percentage points, new software license margin and margin as a percentage of
revenues increased as our revenues increased at a faster rate than our expenses.        Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal
2008:      Our new software license revenues growth was unfavorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total new
software license revenues increased slightly in fiscal 2009 as a result of a 7% increase in database and middleware revenues, partially offset by a 10% decrease in applications revenues. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the EMEA
and Asia Pacific regions increased new software license revenues by 6% and 7%, respectively, and were partially offset by a decrease of 4% in the Americas region.   
  Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations of 7 percentage points, database and middleware revenues grew 7% in fiscal 2009 due primarily to
incremental revenues from BEA and, to a lesser extent, incremental revenues from other recently acquired products. In reported currency, BEA products contributed $459 million, and other recently acquired products contributed $21 million to the total
database and middleware revenues growth in fiscal 2009. The revenue contributions from BEA products, which had been integrated with Oracle s Fusion Middleware and were sold together, were based on our internal allocations consistent with
previous periods.      Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points, application new software license revenues
decreased in fiscal 2009 due to weaker global economic conditions and were partially offset by $60 million of revenues from recently acquired products.   
  In reported currency, new software license revenues earned from transactions over $0.5 million declined by 7% in fiscal 2009, primarily due to unfavorable
currency variations, and decreased to 50% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2009 from 51% in fiscal 2008.      Total sales and marketing
expenses were favorably impacted by 5 percentage points of currency variations during fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, sales and marketing expenses increased in fiscal 2009 primarily due to higher salaries from
increased headcount and higher amortization of intangible assets. These constant currency increases were partially offset by a reduction in our variable compensation expenses.   
  In both reported and constant currency, total new software license margin and margin as a percentage of revenues decreased as our total new software
license expenses growth, in particular higher amortization of intangible assets, exceeded our revenues growth.         
   55   

Table of Contents  

     Software License Updates and Product Support:      Software license updates
grant customers rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content as well as internet and telephone access to technical support
personnel in our global support centers. Expenses associated with our software license updates and product support line of business include the cost of providing the support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our
intangible assets associated with software support contracts and customer relationships obtained from acquisitions.       

(1)   
    Excluding stock-based compensation          

(2)   
    Included as a component of  Amortization of Intangible Assets  in our consolidated statements of operations      
    Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009:      Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and
product support revenues increased in fiscal 2010 as a result of new software licenses sold (with substantially all customers electing to purchase support contracts) during the trailing 4-quarter period, the renewal of substantially all of the
customer base eligible for renewal in the current fiscal year and incremental revenues from recent acquisitions. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 49%, EMEA contributed 39% and Asia Pacific contributed 12%
to the increase in software license updates and product support revenues.      In reported currency, software license updates and product support
revenues in fiscal 2010 included incremental revenues of $88 million from Sun and $56 million from our other recently acquired companies. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce assumed support obligations to their
estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amounts of $86 million, $243 million and $179
million that would have been otherwise recorded by our acquired businesses as independent entities were not recognized in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. Historically, substantially all of our customers, including customers
from acquired companies, renew their software support contracts when such contracts are eligible for renewal. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of these contracts over the
support periods, the substantial majority of which are one year in duration.         
   56   

Table of Contents  

   On a constant currency basis, total software license updates and product support expenses decreased due to
reductions in our bad debt expenses from improved collections during fiscal 2010 and were partially offset by an increase in salary and benefits expenses from increased headcount, including headcount assumed from Sun.   
  Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total software license updates and product support margin and margin as a percentage of total revenues
increased as our total revenues grew while our total expenses declined.        Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal
2008:      The growth in our software license updates and product support revenues was unfavorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 5 percentage points in fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of currency rate
fluctuations, software license updates and product support revenues increased in fiscal 2009 for similar reasons as noted above. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 49%, EMEA contributed 38% and Asia Pacific
contributed 13% to the increase in software license updates and product support revenues.      In reported currency, software license updates and
product support revenues in fiscal 2009 included incremental revenues of $540 million from BEA and $69 million from other recently acquired companies. As described above, the amounts of software license updates and product support revenues that we
recognized in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 were affected by business combination accounting rules.      Total software license updates and product
support expenses were favorably impacted by 3 percentage points of currency variations during fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support expenses increased due to higher salary
expenses associated with increased headcount to support the expansion of our customer base and higher amortization expenses resulting from additional intangible assets acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2008, both of which were primarily
attributable to our acquisition of BEA in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.      Total software license updates and product support margin
increased due to an increase in revenues, while margin as a percentage of revenues decreased slightly as the growth in our amortization of intangible assets exceeded our revenues growth rate.   
   Hardware Systems Business       As a result
of our acquisition of Sun, we entered into a new hardware systems business in fiscal 2010. Our hardware systems business consists of two operating segments: hardware systems products and hardware systems support.   
     
   57   

Table of Contents  

     Hardware Systems Products:      Hardware systems products revenues are
primarily generated from the sales of our computer server and storage products. We market and sell our hardware systems products through our direct sales force and indirect channels such as independent distributors and value added resellers.
Operating expenses associated with our hardware systems products include the cost of hardware systems products, which consist of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third
party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete. Operating expenses associated with our hardware systems products also include
sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware products, and amortization of intangible assets.   

(1)   
    Excluding stock-based compensation          

(2)   
    Included as a component of  Amortization of Intangible Assets  in our consolidated statements of operations      

*   
      Not meaningful      
  Hardware systems products revenues and expenses for fiscal 2010 resulted from our acquisition of Sun. Our hardware systems products expenses were
unfavorably affected by $29 million of fair value adjustments made pursuant to ASC 805,  Business Combinations , for inventories we assumed from Sun and sold to customers in the post-combination period.   
     
   58   

Table of Contents  

     Hardware Systems Support:      Our hardware systems support offerings
provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware systems and storage products and can include product repairs, maintenance services, and technical support services. Expenses
associated with our hardware systems support operating segment include the cost of materials used to repair customer products, the cost of providing support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets
associated with hardware systems support contracts and customer relationships obtained from the Sun acquisition.       

(1)   
    Excluding stock-based compensation          

(2)   
    Included as a component of  Amortization of Intangible Assets  in our consolidated statements of operations      

*  
  Not meaningful        Hardware systems support
revenues and expenses for fiscal 2010 resulted from our acquisition of Sun.      Our hardware systems support revenues were attributable to
hardware systems support contracts that we assumed through our acquisition of Sun and, to a lesser extent, support contracts that were purchased or renewed by customers in the post-combination period. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we
recorded adjustments to reduce assumed hardware systems support obligations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, hardware systems support revenues related to support
contracts in the amount of $128 million that would have been otherwise recorded by Sun as an independent entity were not recognized in fiscal 2010. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the
full value of these contracts over the support periods.         
   59   

Table of Contents  

    Services    
  Services consist of consulting, On Demand and education.   
    Consulting:      Consulting revenues are earned by providing services to customers in the design, implementation,
deployment and upgrade of our database and middleware software products as well as applications software products. The cost of providing consulting services consists primarily of personnel related expenditures.   

(1)   
    Excluding stock-based compensation          

(2)   
    Included as a component of  Amortization of Intangible Assets  in our consolidated statements of operations      
    Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009:      Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, we believe the decline in
our consulting revenues in fiscal 2010 was generally due to weaker demand resulting from reduced IT spending on services by our customers as a result of the deterioration of global economic conditions in recent periods.   
  Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, consulting expenses decreased primarily due to a reduction in employee related expenses resulting from
reduced headcount, including salaries, variable compensation and travel and entertainment and a reduction in external contractor related expenses.   
  On a constant currency basis, consulting margin and margin as a percentage of revenues decreased in fiscal 2010 as our revenues declined at a greater rate
than our expenses.        Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:      Consulting revenues were unfavorably affected by
foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, we believe the decline in our consulting revenues was generally due to similar reasons as noted above.   
  In constant currency, consulting expenses decreased during fiscal 2009 as a result of lower salary expenses due to a decrease in headcount and lower
variable compensation expenses. These decreases were partially offset by higher infrastructure and travel expenses (the majority of consulting travel expenses are billable to customers).   
  On a constant currency basis, consulting margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased in fiscal 2009 as our expenses declined at a greater rate
than our revenues.        On Demand:      On Demand includes our Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer Services
offerings. Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured software and hardware management and maintenance services for customers       
  
   60   

Table of Contents  

that are delivered either at our data center facilities, at select partner data centers, or physically on-site at customer facilities. Advanced Customer Services consists of solution lifecycle
management services, database and application management services, industry-specific solution support centers and remote and on-site expert services. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we increased the volume and breadth of our Advanced Customer
Services offerings, including onsite and remote operations management, hardware systems expert services, and packaged offerings that support the installation and optimization of Sun systems. The cost of providing On Demand services consists
primarily of personnel related expenditures, technology infrastructure expenditures and facilities costs.       

(1)   
    Excluding stock-based compensation          

(2)   
    Included as a component of  Amortization of Intangible Assets  in our consolidated statements of operations      
    Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009:      Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in our On
Demand revenues was primarily due to revenue contributions from Sun and increased revenues from our legacy Advanced Customer Services offerings. These increases were partially offset by modestly lower revenues in our legacy Oracle On Demand
business. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 11%, EMEA contributed 78% and Asia Pacific contributed 11% to the increase in our On Demand revenues.   
  On a constant currency basis, On Demand expenses increased primarily due to Sun and were partially offset by lower expenses from our legacy On Demand
operations, primarily reduced employee related expenses.      On a constant currency basis, On Demand margin increased primarily due to expense
reductions in our legacy On Demand operations.        Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:      On Demand revenue
growth was unfavorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2009. On Demand revenues increased in fiscal 2009 due to an increase in each service category s subscription base as a greater number of
customers engaged us to provide IT services and outsourcing solutions. On a constant currency basis, Advanced Customer Services contributed the majority of our On Demand revenues growth. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the
Americas contributed 52%, EMEA contributed 23% and Asia Pacific contributed 25% to the increase in On Demand revenues.         
   61   

Table of Contents  

   Excluding the effect of favorable currency rate fluctuations of 5 percentage points, On Demand expenses
increased modestly in fiscal 2009 due to higher personnel related costs resulting from additional employees hired to support the increase in On Demand revenues. This expense increase was partially offset by a shift of certain U.S. based costs to
global support centers in lower cost countries.      Total On Demand margin and margin as a percentage of revenues improved primarily as a result
of our Oracle On Demand business, which increased revenues while managing operating expenses to a modest level of growth in comparison to fiscal 2008. Our Advanced Customer Services margin and margin percentages also improved in comparison to fiscal
2008.        Education:      Education revenues are earned by providing instructor-led, media-based and
internet-based training in the use of our software and hardware products. Education expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures, facilities and external contractor costs.   

(1)   
    Excluding stock-based compensation      
    Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009:      On a constant currency basis, education revenues decreased in fiscal 2010 as we
experienced weaker demand for our educational services that we believe was the result of reduced IT spending on services by our customers due to weaker global economic conditions, partially offset by additional revenues from our acquisition of Sun.
On a constant currency basis, education expenses decreased in fiscal 2010 as we reduced our employee related and external contractor expenses. These expense decreases were partially offset by additional expenses, primarily employee related, from our
acquisition of Sun. On a constant currency basis, education margin decreased due to our revenue decrease, while margin as a percentage of revenues increased due to expense reductions.   
    Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:      Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 4 percentage
points, education revenues decreased in fiscal 2009 for a similar reason as the fiscal 2010 decrease noted above. Excluding the effect of favorable currency rate fluctuations of 5 percentage points, education expenses declined in comparison to
fiscal 2008, due to headcount reductions associated with restructuring actions taken and a reduction in other variable costs associated with the decline in business activity. Education margin and margin as a percentage of revenues decreased in
fiscal 2009 due to a decrease in our revenues.         
   62   

Table of Contents  

     Research and Development Expenses:      Research and development expenses
consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position.   

(1)   
    Excluding stock-based compensation      
    Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009:      On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased
during fiscal 2010 primarily due to our acquisition of Sun. We estimate that Sun contributed $476 million to our research and development expenses that were primarily employee related. In addition, our expenses in fiscal 2010 were also impacted by
higher benefits expenses due to an increase in deferred compensation plan obligations (refer to additional discussion under  Non-Operating Income (Expense), net  below) and were partially offset by lower external contractor expenses.
       Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:      Total research and development expenses were favorably affected by 3
percentage points of currency variations during fiscal 2009. On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased as salary expenses from higher headcount and increased stock-based compensation expenses were partially
offset by a decrease in variable compensation expenses.        General and Administrative Expenses:      General and
administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for information technology, finance, legal and human resources support functions.       

(1)   
    Excluding stock-based compensation      
    Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009:      On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses
increased during fiscal 2010 due to additional employee related and professional services expenses resulting from our acquisition of Sun, and higher stock-based compensation expenses primarily resulting from higher fair values of our legacy stock
options that were recognized as expense in the current year period.        Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal
2008:      Total general and administrative expenses were affected by 4 percentage points of favorable currency variations during fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, general and administrative
expenses increased slightly during fiscal 2009 as a result of increased professional services fees and increased stock-based compensation expenses, which were almost entirely offset by decreases in variable compensation expenses and certain of our
benefits expenses.         
   63   

Table of Contents  

     Amortization of Intangible Assets:     

*  
  Not meaningful          Fiscal 2010 Compared to
Fiscal 2009:      Amortization of intangible assets increased in fiscal 2010 due to additional amortization from acquired intangible assets that we acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2009, including from our acquisition
from Sun. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in amortization associated with certain of our developed technology and core technology intangible assets that became fully amortized in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. See Note 7 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional information regarding our intangible assets (including weighted average useful lives) and related amortization.   
    Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:      Amortization of intangible assets increased in fiscal 2009 due to the
amortization of acquired intangibles from BEA and, to a lesser extent, other acquisitions that we consummated since the beginning of fiscal 2008.   
    Acquisition Related and Other Expenses:      Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs for
transitional and certain other employees, stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments after the measurement periods or purchase price allocation periods have ended, and
certain other operating expenses, net. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whereby vesting was
accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the original terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards. As a result of our adoption of the FASB s revised accounting standard for business combinations as of the
beginning of fiscal 2010, certain acquisition related and other expenses were recorded as expenses in our fiscal 2010 statement of operations that had been historically included as a part of the consideration transferred and capitalized as a part of
our accounting for acquisitions pursuant to previous accounting rules, primarily direct transaction costs such as professional services fees.       

*  
  Not meaningful           
   64   

Table of Contents  

     Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009:      On a constant currency basis,
acquisition related and other expenses increased in fiscal 2010 primarily due to higher employee related and professional services expenses resulting from our acquisition of Sun.   
    Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:      On a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other expenses decreased
due to lower stock-based compensation expenses in fiscal 2009 caused primarily by the timing of stock option accelerations for certain former Hyperion and BEA employees that were incurred in the first and fourth quarters of fiscal 2008. This
decrease was almost entirely offset by higher transitional and other employee related expenses resulting primarily from our acquisition of BEA and an increase in certain acquisition related adjustments subsequent to the end of the purchase price
allocation period. In addition, we also recognized a gain on property sale in fiscal 2008, which reduced our net expenses in that period.   
    Restructuring expenses:      Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs and may also include charges for
duplicate facilities and other contract termination costs to improve our cost structure prospectively. Beginning in fiscal 2010, our adoption of the FASB s revised accounting standard for business combinations required that, in connection with
any prospective acquisition, we record involuntary employee termination and other exit costs associated with such acquisition to restructuring expenses in our consolidated financial statements (see further discussion under  Business
Combinations  within the  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  section above). For additional information regarding our Oracle-based and acquired company restructuring plans, see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.       
      Fiscal 2010 Compared to
Fiscal 2009:      Restructuring expenses in fiscal 2010 included expenses associated with the Oracle Fiscal 2009 Restructuring Plan (2009 Plan), which our management approved, committed to and initiated in order to
restructure and further improve efficiencies in our Oracle-based operations. We also incurred restructuring expenses pursuant to our Sun Restructuring Plan, which our management approved, committed to and initiated in order to better align our cost
structure as a result of our acquisition of Sun. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2009 Plan and Sun Restructuring Plan are approximately $453 million and $1.1 billion, respectively, and will be recorded to the
restructuring expense line item within our consolidated statements of operations as the costs are recognized. Restructuring expenses in fiscal 2009 were as noted below. Our estimated costs may be subject to change in future periods.   
    Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:      During fiscal 2009, we recorded $85 million of restructuring expenses in
connection with the 2009 Plan. During the second quarter of fiscal 2008, our management approved, committed to, initiated, and subsequently amended, a plan to restructure and improve efficiencies in our Oracle-based operations (the 2008 Plan). We
incurred expenses of $39 million and $41 million during fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, pursuant to the 2008 Plan.        Interest
Expense:         
      Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal
2009:      Interest expense increased in fiscal 2010 due to higher average borrowings resulting from our issuance of $4.5 billion of senior notes in July 2009 and, to a lesser extent, our issuance of $2.8 billion of
commercial paper notes in fiscal 2010, of which $881 million were outstanding as of May 31, 2010 (see additional discussion in Liquidity and Capital Resources below and Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in
this Annual Report). These increases were partially offset by a reduction in interest expense associated with the maturities and repayments of $1.0 billion of senior notes and related variable to fixed interest rate swap agreements in both May 2009
and May 2010.         
   65   

Table of Contents  

     Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:      Interest expense increased in
fiscal 2009 due to higher average borrowings resulting from our issuance of $5.0 billion of senior notes in April 2008.        Non-Operating
Income (Expense), net:      Non-operating income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange gains (losses), the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned
subsidiaries (Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Japan), and net other income (losses) including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments and net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of
our investment portfolio that we classify as trading.       
      Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009:      On a constant currency basis, we incurred
non-operating expenses, net in fiscal 2010 primarily due to net foreign currency losses relating to our Venezuelan subsidiary s operations. Effective December 1, 2009, we designated our Venezuelan subsidiary as  highly
inflationary  in accordance with ASC 830,  Foreign Currency Matters , and began using the U.S. Dollar as the subsidiary s new functional currency. During our third quarter of fiscal 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued its
currency. As a result of the devaluation, we recognized $81 million of foreign currency losses in fiscal 2010 due to the remeasurement of certain assets and liabilities and conversion of certain cash balances of our Venezuelan subsidiary into U.S.
Dollars. As a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, the amounts and timing of which are variable. Our foreign currency losses, net were partially
offset by interest income, which was lower in fiscal 2010 due to a general decline in market interest rates that resulted in lower yields earned on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances and by an increase in other income, net
resulting from favorable changes in asset values that support our deferred compensation plan obligations that resulted primarily from favorable changes in the values of our marketable securities that we classify as trading and are held to support
our deferred compensation plan obligations. These favorable variances in the asset values of our marketable securities offset the unfavorable variances in the obligations associated with our deferred compensation plan that are included in our
operating expenses such that there is no impact to our income before provision for income taxes during fiscal 2010 or any other period presented.   
    Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:      Non-operating income (expense), net decreased during fiscal 2009 as a result of
a reduction in our interest income, primarily due to lower market rates that affected the yields earned on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, net foreign currency transaction losses of $55 million in comparison to net
foreign currency transaction gains of $40 million in the corresponding prior year and a decrease in other income, net due to a reduction in the value of our investments that we classify as trading that support our deferred compensation plan
obligations (see additional discussion of the accounting for these assets and obligations above).        Provision for Income
Taxes:      Our effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes differs from the tax
computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to state taxes and earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected if earnings are lower than
anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations or by adverse rulings in tax related litigation.       
       
   66   

Table of Contents  

     Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009:      Provision for income taxes
decreased during fiscal 2010 primarily due to recent judicial decisions, including the March 2010 U.S. Court of Appeals Ninth Circuit ruling in  Xilinx v. Commissioner , and settlements with various worldwide tax authorities, offset by higher
income before provision for income taxes, which yielded a higher provision for income taxes which was primarily the result of a lower proportion of our worldwide taxable income being earned in lower tax rate jurisdictions.   
    Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:      Provision for income taxes decreased during fiscal 2009 in comparison to fiscal
2008 due to a lower effective tax rate, which was primarily the result of a higher proportion of our worldwide taxable income being earned in lower tax rate jurisdictions.   
   Liquidity and Capital Resources        
      Working
capital:      The increase in working capital as of May 31, 2010 in comparison to May 31, 2009 was primarily due to the favorable impact to our net current assets resulting from our net income during fiscal 2010
and our issuance of $4.5 billion of long-term senior notes in July 2009. These increases were partially offset by $5.6 billion of net cash used for our acquisition of Sun and other companies, the reclassification of $2.2 billion of our senior notes
due January 2011 as a current liability, $700 million of cash used to repay Sun s legacy convertible notes shortly after the closing of the acquisition (see additional discussion in Liquidity and Capital Resources below and Note 8 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report), repurchases of our common stock and cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our working capital may be impacted by some of the aforementioned factors in future
periods, certain amounts and timing of which are variable.      The increase in working capital as of May 31, 2009 in comparison to
May 31, 2008 was due to the favorable impact to our net current assets resulting from our net income during fiscal 2009. This increase in working capital was partially offset by an increase in our stock repurchases during fiscal 2009 in
comparison to the prior year (we used $4.0 billion of cash for stock repurchases during fiscal 2009 in comparison to $2.0 billion used for stock repurchases during fiscal 2008), cash used for our acquisitions, cash used to repay $1.0 billion of our
senior notes that matured in May 2009 and the reclassification of $1.0 billion of our senior notes due May 2010 as a current liability, cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders for the first time in our history, and the decline in value of our
net current assets held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries as a result of the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar during fiscal 2009 (the offset to which was recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income in our consolidated balance
sheet).        Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities:      Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of
deposits held at major banks, money market funds, Tier-1 commercial paper, U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise obligations, and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less.
Marketable securities primarily consist of time deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper, corporate notes, U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise obligations and certain other securities.
The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at May 31, 2010 in comparison to May 31, 2009 was primarily due to cash generated from our operating activities and our issuance of $4.5 billion of senior notes in July 2009.
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities included $16.6 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries as of May 31, 2010. The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion
of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated other comprehensive
income in our consolidated balance sheet). As the U.S. Dollar strengthened against certain major international currencies as of the end of fiscal 2010, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S.
Dollars for these subsidiaries decreased as of May 31, 2010 relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate as of May 31, 2009. Our increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances were partially
offset by $5.6 billion of net cash used for our acquisition of Sun and         
   67   

Table of Contents  

other companies, the repayment of $700 million of Sun s legacy convertible notes, repurchases of our common stock, and the payment of cash dividends to our stockholders.   
  The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at May 31, 2009 in comparison to May 31, 2008 was due to an increase in cash
generated from our operating activities. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in our reported cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances caused by the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar in comparison to most major
international currencies during fiscal 2009, which reduced the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for our foreign subsidiaries relative to what we would have reported using a constant
currency rate. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances were also partially offset by cash used for our acquisitions, the repayment of $1.0 billion of senior notes in May 2009, the repurchases of our common stock (see
discussion above), and the payment of cash dividends to our stockholders.      Days sales outstanding, which is calculated by dividing period end
accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter, was 53 days at May 31, 2010 compared with 58 days at May 31, 2009. The days sales outstanding calculation excludes the adjustment that reduces our acquired software license
updates and product support obligations and hardware systems support obligations to fair value. Our decrease in days sales outstanding is primarily due to improved cash collections during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 in comparison to the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2009.       
      Cash flows from operating
activities:      Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their software license updates and product support agreements. Payments from customers
for these support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contracts  terms, which are generally one year in length. We also generate significant cash from new software license sales, sales of hardware systems products and
hardware systems support and, to a lesser extent, services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel related expenditures and, as a result of our acquisition of Sun, materials costs related to the manufacturing of our
hardware systems products. We also make cash payments related to taxes and leased facilities.       Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal
2009:     Net cash provided by operating activities increased in fiscal 2010 primarily due to higher net income adjusting for amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation and depreciation and was partially
offset by the operating cash flow effects of an increase to our net trade receivables resulting primarily from an increase in revenues during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2010.   
   Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:      Net cash provided by operating activities increased in fiscal 2009 primarily due to
higher net income adjusting for amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation and other net cash favorable balance sheet movements.   
    Cash flows from investing activities:       The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to
acquisitions and the timing of purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in marketable debt securities. We also use cash to invest in capital and other assets to support our growth.   
   Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009:     Net cash used for investing activities increased in fiscal 2010 due to an increase in
cash used for acquisitions, primarily our acquisition of Sun, and cash used to purchase marketable debt securities (net of proceeds received from sales and maturities).   
   Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:     Net cash used for investing activities decreased in fiscal 2009 due to a decrease in
cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and a decrease in cash used to purchase marketable debt securities, net of proceeds received from sales and maturities.   
    Cash flows from financing activities:      The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to
borrowings and payments under debt facilities as well as stock repurchases, dividend payments and proceeds from stock option exercises.         
   68   

Table of Contents  

    Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009:     Net cash provided by financing activities
in fiscal 2010 increased compared to cash used by financing activities in fiscal 2009 due to our issuance of $4.5 billion of senior notes, our issuances of $2.8 billion of commercial paper notes, net of repayments, and a reduction in our common
stock repurchases. These increases were partially offset by additional cash used for dividend payments and the repayment of $700 million of Sun s legacy convertible notes shortly after the closing of the Sun acquisition.   
   Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:     Net cash used for financing activities in fiscal 2009 increased in comparison to cash
provided by financing activities in fiscal 2008 due to increased stock repurchases and dividend payments and decreased proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options during fiscal 2009. In addition, financing activities provided cash in fiscal
2008 as a result of our issuance of $5.0 billion of long-term senior notes in April 2008 and certain commercial paper issuances, net of repayments.   
    Free cash flow:      To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non-GAAP measures of
cash flows on a trailing 4-quarter basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We believe free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash
flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flows as follows:

(1)   
    Represents capital expenditures as reported in cash flows from investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows presented in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.           Long-Term Customer
Financing:      We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell contracts that we have financed on a
non-recourse basis to financial institutions. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financial assets because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financial assets. In fiscal
2010, 2009 and 2008, $1.2 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.1 billion or approximately 16%, 19% and 15%, respectively, of our new software license revenues were financed through our financing division.   
    Recent Financing Activities     
   Senior Notes        Oracle Senior
Notes:     As of May 31, 2010, we had $13.8 billion of senior notes outstanding including $2.2 billion of senior notes that mature in January 2011. We repaid $1.0 billion of senior notes that matured in May 2010 and $1.0
billion of senior notes that matured in May 2009. In July 2009, we issued $4.5 billion of fixed rate senior notes comprised of $1.5 billion of 3.75% notes due July 2014 (2014 Notes), $1.75 billion of 5.00% notes due July 2019 and $1.25 billion of
6.125% notes due July 2039. We issued these senior notes for general corporate purposes and to finance a portion of the purchase price for our acquisition of Sun. In September 2009, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements related to
our 2014 Notes that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with our 2014 Notes so that the interest obligations became variable based upon a LIBOR-based index. We are accounting for these interest rate swap
agreements as fair value hedges pursuant to ASC 815,  Derivatives and Hedging . Additional details regarding our senior notes and related interest rate swap agreements are included in Note 8 and Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.       Sun Convertible Notes:     Shortly after the closing of our
acquisition of Sun, we repaid, in full, $700 million of Sun s legacy convertible notes during the third quarter of fiscal 2010.         
   69   

Table of Contents  

    Commercial Paper    
   Commercial Paper Program:     On May 11, 2010, we reduced the overall capacity of our commercial paper program from $5.0
billion to $3.0 billion after our 2009 Credit Agreement (as defined below) terminated pursuant to its terms.       Commercial Paper
Notes:     During fiscal 2010, we issued $2.8 billion of unsecured short-term commercial paper notes (Commercial Paper Notes) pursuant to our commercial paper program, which allows us to issue and sell unsecured short-term
promissory notes pursuant to a private placement exemption from the registration requirements under federal and state securities laws. We issued these Commercial Paper Notes to finance a portion of the purchase price for the Sun acquisition, to
assist with the repayment of our $1.0 billion of senior notes that matured in May 2010 and for general corporate purposes. As of May 31, 2010, we had $881 million of Commercial Paper Notes outstanding at a weighted average yield, including
issuance costs, of 0.28% (none outstanding as of May 31, 2009). We back-stop these notes with our revolving credit agreement and therefore, as of May 31, 2010, we consider that we have $2.1 billion of capacity remaining under our 2006
commercial paper program. Additional details of our various debt facilities and obligations are included in the  Contractual Obligations  section below and in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this
Annual Report.       Revolving Credit Agreements :    On March 16, 2010, our $2.0 billion 364-Day Revolving
Credit Agreement dated March 17, 2009, among Oracle; the lenders named therein; Wachovia Bank, National Association, as administrative agent; BNP Paribas as syndication agent; the documentation agents named therein; and Wachovia Capital
Markets, LLC, and BNP Paribas Securities Corp., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners (the 2009 Credit Agreement), terminated pursuant to its terms. No debt was outstanding pursuant to the 2009 Credit Agreement as of its date of termination.
     As of May 31, 2010, we had a $3.0 billion, five-year Revolving Credit Agreement with certain lenders that we entered into in March 2006
(the 2006 Credit Agreement). Additional details regarding the 2006 Credit Agreement are included under the heading  Revolving Credit Agreements  in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual
Report.       Common Stock Repurchases :    Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of
our common stock. On October 20, 2008, we announced that our Board of Directors expanded our repurchase program by $8.0 billion and as of May 31, 2010, $5.3 billion was available for share repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase
program. We repurchased 43.3 million shares for $1.0 billion, 225.6 million shares for $4.0 billion, and 97.3 million shares for $2.0 billion in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our stock repurchase authorization does not
have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend repayments, our debt repayment obligations (described further below), our
stock price, and economic and market conditions. Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or
discontinued at any time.       Cash Dividends :    In fiscal 2010, we declared and paid cash dividends of $0.20 per share
that totaled $1.0 billion, which is an increase in comparison to fiscal 2009 in which we declared and paid the first dividend in our history to our common stockholders of $0.05 per share, which totaled $250 million. In June 2010, our Board of
Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share of outstanding common stock payable on August 4, 2010 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on July 14, 2010. Future declarations of dividends and the
establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.        Contractual
Obligations:      The contractual obligations presented in the table below represent our estimates of future payments under fixed contractual obligations and commitments. Changes in our business needs, cancellation
provisions, changing interest rates and other factors may result in actual payments differing from these estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of payments. We have presented below a summary of the most significant
assumptions used in preparing this information within the context of         
   70   

Table of Contents  

our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The following is a summary of our contractual obligations as of May 31, 2010:   

(1)   
    Our borrowings (excluding capital leases) consist of the following as of May 31, 2010:      

We have entered into certain interest rate swap agreements related to our July 2014 senior notes that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest
obligations associated with these senior notes so that the interest obligations effectively became variable pursuant to a LIBOR-based index. Interest payments on borrowings presented in the contractual obligations table above have been estimated
using an interest rate of 1.44%, which represented our effective interest rate as of May 31, 2010 after consideration of these fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements, and are subject to change in future periods. The changes in fair
value of our debt associated with the interest rate risk that we are hedging pursuant to these agreements are included in notes payable and other non-current borrowings in our consolidated balance sheet and have been included in the above table of
borrowings.         

(2)   
    Represents remaining payments under capital leases, substantially all of which were assumed from our acquisitions.      

(3)   
    Primarily represents leases of facilities and includes future minimum rent payments for facilities that we have vacated pursuant to our restructuring
and merger integration activities. We have approximately $386 million in facility obligations, net of estimated sublease income, accrued restructuring for these locations in our consolidated balance sheet at May 31, 2010.

(4)   
    Represents amounts associated with agreements that are enforceable, legally binding and specify terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be
purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the payment. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we utilize several external manufacturers to manufacture sub-assemblies for our products and to perform final
assembly and testing of finished products. We also obtain individual components for our products from a variety of individual suppliers based on projected demand information. Such purchase commitments are based on our forecasted component and
manufacturing requirements and typically provide for fulfillment within agreed upon lead-times and/or commercially standard lead-times for the particular part or product and have been included in the amount presented in the above contractual
obligations table. Routine arrangements for other materials and goods that are not related to our external manufacturers and certain other suppliers and that are entered into in the ordinary course of business are not included in this amount as they
are generally entered into in order to secure pricing or other negotiated terms and are difficult to quantify in a meaningful way.          

(5)   
    Represents the maximum additional capital we may need to contribute toward our venture fund investments, which are payable upon demand.
           
   71   

Table of Contents  

   As of May 31, 2010, we have $2.5 billion of unrecognized tax benefits recorded on our consolidated
balance sheet. We have reached certain settlement agreements with relevant taxing authorities to pay approximately $79 million of these liabilities (these amounts have been excluded from the table above due to the uncertainty of when they might be
settled). Although it remains unclear as to when payments pursuant to these agreements will be made, some or all may be made in fiscal 2011. We cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period in which the remainder of our unrecognized tax
benefits will be settled or released with the relevant tax authorities, although we believe it is reasonably possible that certain of these liabilities could be settled or released during fiscal 2011.   
  Separately, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we agreed to acquire Phase Forward Incorporated, a provider of applications for life sciences companies
and healthcare providers, for $17.00 per share in cash, amounting to approximately $810 million. Our proposed acquisition of Phase Forward is subject to stockholder and regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions. In addition, we
agreed to acquire certain other companies for amounts that are not material to our business. We intend to finance our proposed acquisitions through a combination of our internally available cash, our cash generated from operations, our existing
available debt capacity, additional borrowings, or from the issuance of additional securities.      We believe that our current cash, cash
equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligations. In addition, we believe we could fund any future acquisitions, dividend
payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, our existing available debt capacity, additional borrowings or from the issuance of
additional securities.        Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements:      We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements
that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to
investors.       Selected Quarterly Financial Data    
  Quarterly revenues, expenses and operating income have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including sales force incentive
compensation plans. In addition, our European operations generally provide lower revenues in our first fiscal quarter because of the reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer. These seasonal factors are common in the high technology
industry. These factors have caused a decrease in our first quarter revenues as compared to revenues in the immediately preceding fourth quarter, which historically has been our highest revenue quarter within a particular fiscal year. Similarly, the
operating income of our business is affected by seasonal factors in a consistent manner as our revenues (in particular, our new software license and hardware systems products businesses) as certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively
fixed in the short term. We expect these trends to continue in fiscal 2011. Our quarterly revenues, expenses and operating income were also impacted in the periods presented in the table below by our acquisition of Sun during the third quarter of
fiscal 2010, which added a significant amount of revenues and expenses to our results of operations in comparison to our historical operating results.   
  The following tables set forth selected unaudited quarterly information for our last eight fiscal quarters. We believe that all necessary adjustments,
which consisted only of normal recurring adjustments, have been included in the amounts stated below to present fairly the results of such periods when read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included
elsewhere in this Annual Report. The sum of the quarterly financial information may vary from the annual data due to rounding.       

72   

Table of Contents  

Stock Options and Restricted
Stock-Based Awards       Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain
certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We historically have granted only stock options to our employees. The restricted stock-based awards included in the table presented below were
assumed as a result of acquisitions.      We recognize that options and restricted stock-based awards dilute existing stockholders and have sought
to control the number of options and restricted stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2007 has been a weighted average
annualized rate of 1.3% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new options or restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of options and restricted stock-based awards forfeited by
employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted average outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all options are exercised and restricted stock-based awards vest. Some of the
outstanding options, which generally have a 10 year exercise period, have exercise prices higher than the current market price of our common stock. At May 31, 2010, 7% of our outstanding stock options had exercise prices in excess of the
current market price. Consistent with our historical practices, we do not expect that dilution from future grants before the effect of our stock repurchase program will exceed 2.0% per year for our ongoing business. In recent years, our stock
repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program; however, we may reduce the level of our stock repurchases in the future as we may use our available cash for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to
repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At May 31, 2010, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding and unexercised stock option and restricted stock-based awards, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether
vested or unvested and including options where the strike price is higher than the current market price, was 7.1%.         
   73   

Table of Contents  

   The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors reviews and approves the organization-wide stock option
grants to selected employees, all stock option grants to executive officers and any individual stock option grants in excess of 100,000 shares. A separate Plan Committee, which is an executive officer committee, approves individual stock option
grants of up to 100,000 shares to non-executive officers and employees. Stock option and restricted stock-based award activity from June 1, 2007 through May 31, 2010 is summarized as follows (shares in millions):   

Options and restricted stock-based awards outstanding at May 31, 2007   
      
  434  

Options granted   
      
  202  

Options and restricted stock-based awards assumed   
      
  66  

Options exercised and restricted stock-based awards vested   
      
  (274  
  )    
 
    Forfeitures, cancellations and other, net   
      
  (72  
  )    

Options and restricted stock-based awards outstanding at May 31, 2010   
      
  356  

Average annualized options and restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of forfeitures   
      
  65  

Average annualized stock repurchases   
      
  (122  
  )    
 
    Shares outstanding at May 31, 2010   
      
  5,026  

Basic weighted average shares outstanding from June 1, 2007 through May 31, 2010   
      
  5,072  

Options and restricted stock-based awards outstanding as a percent of shares outstanding at May 31, 2010   
      
  7.1%  

In the money options and total restricted stock-based awards outstanding (based on the closing price of our common stock on the
last trading day of our fiscal period presented) as a percent of shares outstanding at May 31, 2010   
      
  6.6%  

Weighted average annualized options and restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of forfeitures and before stock
repurchases, as a percent of weighted average shares outstanding from June 1, 2007 through May 31, 2010   
      
  1.3%  

Weighted average annualized options and restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of forfeitures and after stock
repurchases, as a percent of weighted average shares outstanding from June 1, 2007 through May 31, 2010   
      
  -1.1%  
           Our Compensation Committee
approves the annual organization-wide option grants to certain employees. These annual option grants are made during the ten business day period following the second trading day after the announcement of our fiscal fourth quarter earnings report.
      Recent Accounting Pronouncements    
  For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note
1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         Item 7A.    Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk        Cash, Cash Equivalents, Marketable Securities and Interest Income Risk    
  Our bank deposits and money market investments are generally held with a number of large, diverse financial institutions worldwide which we believe
mitigates certain risks. In addition, we purchase high quality debt security investments, substantially all with relatively short maturities (see a description of our debt securities held in Notes 3 and 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements and  Liquidity and Capital Resources  above). Therefore, interest rate movements generally do not materially affect the valuation of our debt security investments. Substantially all of our marketable securities are designated as
available-for-sale.      Changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest income that is generated from our cash, cash
equivalents and marketable securities. For fiscal 2010, total interest income was $122 million with our investments yielding an average 0.59% on a worldwide basis. This interest rate level was down by 164 basis points from 2.23% for fiscal 2009. If
overall interest rates fell by 50 basis points from our average of 0.59%         
   74   

Table of Contents  

during fiscal 2010, our annual interest income would decline by approximately $97 million, assuming consistent investment levels. The table below presents the cash, cash equivalent and marketable
securities balances and the related weighted average interest rates for our investment portfolio at May 31, 2010. The cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances are recorded at their fair values at May 31, 2010.   
   
     Interest Expense Risk    
  Our total borrowings were $14.7 billion as of May 31, 2010, all of which were fixed rate borrowings. In September 2009, we entered into certain fixed
to variable interest rate swap agreements to manage the interest rate and related debt fair value exposures associated with our $1.5 billion of senior notes due July 2014 (2014 Notes) so that the interest payable on the 2014 Notes effectively became
variable based on LIBOR. We do not use interest rate swap arrangements for trading purposes. We have designated these swap agreements as qualifying instruments and are accounting for them as fair value hedges pursuant to the FASB s accounting
standard for derivatives and hedging .  These transactions are characterized as fair value hedges for financial accounting purposes because they protect us against changes in the fair values of our 2014 Notes due to interest rate movements. The
changes in fair values of these interest rate swap agreements will be recognized as interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations with the corresponding amounts included in other assets or other non-current liabilities in our
consolidated balance sheets. The amount of net gain (loss) attributable to the risk being hedged is recognized as interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations with the corresponding amount included in notes payable and other
non-current borrowings. The periodic interest settlements, which occur at the same intervals as the 2014 Notes, are recorded as interest expense.   
  By entering into these interest rate swap arrangements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon LIBOR. Our 2014
Notes had an effective interest rate of 1.44% as of May 31, 2010, after considering the effects of the aforementioned interest rate swap arrangements. Changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest expense that we recognize
in our statements of operations. An interest rate risk sensitivity analysis is used to measure interest rate risk by computing estimated changes in cash flows as a result of assumed changes in market interest rates. As of May 31, 2010,
if LIBOR-based interest rates increased by 100 basis points, the change would increase our interest expense annually by approximately $15 million as it relates to our fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements.   
  In May 2010, we repaid $1.0 billion of floating rate senior notes and settled the variable to fixed interest rate swap agreement that was used to manage
the economic effect of variable interest obligations associated with such floating rate senior notes.       Foreign Currency Risk
        Foreign Currency Transaction Risk     
  We transact business in various foreign currencies and are subject to risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. We have a
program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset these risks. Our program may be suspended from time to time. This program was active for the majority of fiscal 2010 and was suspended during our fourth quarter of fiscal
2010. When the program is active, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the
risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transactions. Our foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees and other intercompany transactions that are expected to be cash settled in the near term.
Although we have suspended our historical foreign currency forward contract program as of May 31, 2010, our subsidiaries continue to enter into cross-currency transactions and create cross-currency exposures via intercompany arrangements and we
expect that these transactions and exposures will continue. Our ultimate         
   75   

Table of Contents  

realized gain or loss with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency transactions that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated
with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and other factors.  
  Historically, we have not used foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes and have not designated these forward contracts as hedging
instruments pursuant to ASC 815. Accordingly, we have recorded the fair value of these historical contracts as of the end of our reporting period to our consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair value recorded to non-operating income
(expense), net in our consolidated statement of operations. As of May 31, 2010, we estimate that certain of our U.S. Dollar and Euro functional subsidiaries have the equivalent of approximately $2.0 billion and approximately
 410 million (approximately $500 million) of net intercompany receivables whereby the amounts to be received by these subsidiaries are in currencies other than U.S. Dollars or Euros, respectively, and are therefore subject to remeasurement
as of each balance sheet date. As of May 31, 2010, we have no financial instruments in place to mitigate the risks associated with these foreign currency exposures. If overall foreign currency exchange rates weaken (strengthen) against both the
U.S. Dollar and Euro by 10%, we estimate that we would incur approximately $250 million of remeasurement losses (gains) in connection with these intercompany balances assuming the balances remained constant with those as of May 31, 2010.
Net foreign exchange transaction (losses) gains included in non-operating income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $(149) million, $(65) million and $17 million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Included in the net foreign exchange transaction losses for fiscal 2010 were foreign currency losses relating to our Venezuelan subsidiary s operations, which are more thoroughly described under  Non-Operating Income (Expense), net 
in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above. As a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, the
amounts and timing of which may vary.        Foreign Currency Translation Risk     
  Fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of
these amounts into U.S. Dollars. In particular, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation variance caused
by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income on our consolidated balance sheet). Periodically, we hedge net assets of
certain international subsidiaries from foreign currency exposure and provide a discussion in  Foreign Currency Net Investment Risk  below.   
  As the U.S. Dollar fluctuated against certain international currencies as of the end of fiscal 2010, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries as of May 31, 2010 declined relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate as of May 31, 2009. As reported in our consolidated statements
of cash flows, the estimated effect of exchange rate changes on our reported cash and cash equivalents balances in U.S. Dollars for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 was a (decrease) increase of $(107) million, $(501) million, and $437 million,
respectively. The following table includes the U.S. Dollar equivalent of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in certain major foreign currencies as of May 31, 2010:   

76   

Table of Contents  

   If overall foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the U.S. Dollar weakened by 10%, the amount
of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in U.S. Dollars would increase by approximately $695 million, assuming constant foreign currency cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances.   
    Foreign Currency Net Investment Risk     
  Periodically, we hedge net assets of certain of our international subsidiaries using foreign currency forward contracts to offset the translation and
economic exposures related to our foreign currency-based investments in these subsidiaries. These contracts have been designated as net investment hedges pursuant to ASC 815. We entered into these net investment hedges for all of fiscal 2009 and the
majority of fiscal 2010. We suspended this program during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and, as of May 31, 2010, we have no contracts outstanding.   
  We used the spot method to measure the effectiveness of our net investment hedges. Under this method for each reporting period, the change in fair value
of the forward contracts attributable to the changes in spot exchange rates (the effective portion) was reported in accumulated other comprehensive income on our consolidated balance sheet and the remaining change in fair value of the forward
contract (the ineffective portion, if any) was recognized in non-operating income (expense), net, in our consolidated statement of operations. We recorded settlements under these forward contracts in a similar manner. The fair values of both the
effective and ineffective portions were recorded to our consolidated balance sheet as prepaid expenses and other current assets for amounts receivable from the counterparties or other current liabilities for amounts payable to the counterparties.
     Net gains (losses) on our net investment hedges reported in stockholders  equity, net of tax effects, were $(131) million, $(41) million
and $(53) million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Net gains on our net investment hedges reported in non-operating income (expense), net were $1 million, $10 million and $23 million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
        Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
  The response to this item is submitted as a separate section of this Annual Report. See Part IV, Item 15.   
     Item 9.    Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
      None.        
 Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures         Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
       As of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with
the participation of our Disclosure Committee and our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e). Disclosure controls are procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, such as this Annual
Report on Form 10-K, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Disclosure controls are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our quarterly evaluation of disclosure controls includes an evaluation of some
components of our internal control over financial reporting. We also perform a separate annual evaluation of internal control over financial reporting for the purpose of providing the management report below.   
  The evaluation of our disclosure controls included a review of their objectives and design, our implementation of the controls and the effect of the
controls on the information generated for use in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the course of the controls evaluation, we reviewed data errors or control problems identified and   
     
   77   

Table of Contents  

sought to confirm that appropriate corrective actions, including process improvements, were being undertaken. This type of evaluation is performed on a quarterly basis so that the conclusions of
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, concerning the effectiveness of the disclosure controls can be reported in our periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K. Many of the components of our disclosure
controls are also evaluated on an ongoing basis by both our internal audit and finance organizations. The overall goals of these various evaluation activities are to monitor our disclosure controls and to modify them as necessary. We intend to
maintain our disclosure controls as dynamic processes and procedures that we adjust as circumstances merit.      Based upon that evaluation, our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.   
    Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting     
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over
financial reporting as of May 31, 2010 based on the guidelines established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Our internal control over
financial reporting includes policies and procedures that provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. We have excluded from our evaluation the internal control over financial reporting of Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun), which we acquired on January 26, 2010, as discussed in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Total revenues subject to Sun s internal control over financial reporting represented 10% of our consolidated total revenues for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2010. Total assets subject
to Sun s internal control over financial reporting represented 6% of our consolidated total assets as of May 31, 2010. As noted below, in addition to Sun s internal control over financial reporting, our internal control over financial
reporting, subsequent to the date of acquisition, includes certain additional internal controls relating to Sun.      Based on the results of our
evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of May 31, 2010. We reviewed the results of management s assessment with our Finance and Audit Committee.   
  The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2010 has been audited by Ernst   Young LLP, an independent
registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report.        Changes
in Internal Control over Financial Reporting        As a result of our acquisition of Sun on January 26, 2010, our internal control over
financial reporting, subsequent to the date of acquisition, includes certain additional internal controls relating to Sun. Except as described above, there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting identified in connection
with the evaluation required by paragraph (d) of Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15 that occurred during our last fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.        Inherent Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls     
  Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, believes that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal
control over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and are effective at the reasonable assurance level. However, our management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or
our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can   
     
   78   

Table of Contents  

provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource
constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of
fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by
the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there
can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures
may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.   
     Item 9B.    Other Information    
  None.         
   79   

Table of Contents  

    PART III    
     Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
  Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the information required by this item relating to our executive officers is included under the caption
 Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I of this report.      The other information required by this Item 10 is incorporated
by reference from the information contained in our Proxy Statement to be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the solicitation of proxies for our 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the  2010 Proxy
Statement ) under the sections entitled  Board of Directors Incumbent Directors,   Board of Directors Committees, Membership and Meetings Fiscal 2010 Committee Memberships,   Board of
Directors Committees, Membership and Meetings The Finance and Audit Committee,   Corporate Governance Employee Matters Code of Conduct  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance .
        Item 11.    Executive Compensation    
  The information required by this Item 11 is incorporated by reference from the information to be contained in our 2010 Proxy Statement under sections
entitled  Board of Directors Committees, Membership and Meetings  The Compensation Committee Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,   Board of Directors Director Compensation  and
 Executive Compensation .         Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters       The information required by this Item 12 is incorporated herein by
reference from the information to be contained in our 2010 Proxy Statement under the sections entitled  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  and  Executive Compensation Equity Compensation Plan
Information .         Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
Director Independence       The information required by this Item 13 is incorporated herein by reference from the information to be
contained in our 2010 Proxy Statement under the sections entitled  Corporate Governance Board of Directors and Director Independence  and  Transactions with Related Persons .   
     Item 14.    Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
  The information required by this Item 14 is incorporated herein by reference from the information to be contained in our 2010 Proxy Statement under
the section entitled  Proposal No. 3: Ratification of Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm .       PART IV
         Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
     (a) 1. Financial Statements    
  The following financial statements are filed as a part of this report:       
       
   80   

Table of Contents  

   All other schedules are omitted because they are not required or the required information is shown in the
financial statements or notes thereto.       (b) Exhibits    
  The following exhibits are filed herewith or are incorporated by reference to exhibits previously filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

81   

Table of Contents  

82   

Table of Contents  

83   

Table of Contents  

*  
  Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.     
     
   84   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Oracle Corporation   
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Oracle Corporation as of May 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 2010. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a) 2. These
financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.   
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements and schedule are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of Oracle Corporation at May 31, 2010 and 2009, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.      As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, under the heading Business Combinations, the Company adopted
Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) 805,  Business Combinations,  effective June 1, 2009.   
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Oracle Corporation s
internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2010, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
June 30, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      /s/ ERNST   YOUNG LLP   
  San Francisco, California      June 30,
2010         
   85   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  
     The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Oracle Corporation   
  We have audited Oracle Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2010 based on criteria established in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Oracle Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  In our opinion, Oracle Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2010,
based on the COSO criteria.      As indicated in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,
management s assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of Oracle America, Inc. (formerly known as Sun Microsystems, Inc.), which is included in the
May 31, 2010 consolidated financial statements of Oracle Corporation and constituted 6 percent and 3 percent of total and net assets, respectively, as of May 31, 2010 and 10 percent of revenues, for the year then ended. Our
audit of internal control over financial reporting of Oracle Corporation also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of Oracle America, Inc.   
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets
of Oracle Corporation as of May 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 2010 and our report dated June 30, 2010 expressed
an unqualified opinion thereon.          /s/ ERNST   YOUNG LLP
     San Francisco, California   
  June 30, 2010         
   86   

Table of Contents  

      ORACLE CORPORATION    
   CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS    
   As of May 31, 2010 and 2009        
    See notes to consolidated financial statements.   
     
   87   

Table of Contents  

      ORACLE CORPORATION    
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS    
   For the Years Ended May 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008    
   
    See notes to consolidated financial statements.   
     
   88   

Table of Contents  

        ORACLE CORPORATION    
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY    
   For the Years Ended May 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008    
   
    See notes to consolidated financial statements.   
     
   89   

Table of Contents  

      ORACLE CORPORATION    
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS    
   For the Years Ended May 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008    
   
    See notes to consolidated financial
statements.         
   90   

Table of Contents  

      ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
   May 31, 2010        

1.   
   ORGANIZATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES      
  We develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database and middleware software as well as applications software designed to help our customers
manage and grow their business operations. Database and middleware software is used for the secure storage, retrieval and manipulation of all forms of software-based data, and for developing and deploying applications on the internet and on
corporate intranets. Applications software is used to automate business processes and to provide business intelligence. We also offer software license updates and product support contracts that provide our customers with rights to unspecified
product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period, as well as technical support assistance.      On January 26, 2010,
we completed our acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun), a provider of hardware systems, software and services, for $7.3 billion. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we entered into a new hardware systems business. Our hardware systems
business consists of two operating segments: (1) hardware systems products, which consists primarily of computer server and storage product offerings, and (2) hardware systems support, which provides customers with unspecified software
updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware systems and storage products and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.   
  We also offer software and non-software related services including consulting, On Demand, and education.   
   Basis of Financial Statements       The
consolidated financial statements include our accounts and the accounts of our wholly- and majority-owned subsidiaries. As a result of our adoption of the Financial Accounting Standards Board s (FASB) new accounting guidance for noncontrolling
interests as contained in ASC 810 , Consolidation,  as of the beginning of fiscal 2010, we retrospectively classified noncontrolling interest positions of certain of our consolidated entities as a separate component of consolidated equity from
the equity attributable to Oracle s stockholders for all periods presented. The noncontrolling interests in our net income were not significant to our consolidated results for the periods presented and therefore have been included as a
component of non-operating income (expense), net in our consolidated statements of operations. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Certain other prior year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current year
presentation. Such reclassifications did not affect total revenues, operating income or net income.       Use of Estimates    
  Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as set forth in the FASB s
Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) and consider the various staff accounting bulletins and other applicable guidance issued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates,
judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates,
judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are material
differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our consolidated financial statements will be affected. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does
not require management s judgment in its application. There are also areas in which management s judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result.   
   Revenue Recognition       Our sources of
revenues include: (1) software, which includes new software license revenues and software license updates and product support revenues; (2) hardware systems, which includes the sale of hardware systems products including computer servers
and storage products, and hardware systems support revenues; and (3) services, which include software and hardware related services including consulting, On Demand and education revenues.   
     
   91   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
     Revenue Recognition for Software Products and Software Related Services (Software Elements)
       New software license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware and applications
software, and exclude revenues derived from software license updates, which are included in software license updates and product support revenues. While the basis for software license revenue recognition is substantially governed by the accounting
guidance contained in ASC 985-605,  Software-Revenue Recognition , we exercise judgment and use estimates in connection with the determination of the amount of software and services revenues to be recognized in each accounting period.
     For software license arrangements that do not require significant modification or customization of the underlying software, we recognize new
software license revenues when: (1) we enter into a legally binding arrangement with a customer for the license of software; (2) we deliver the products; (3) customer payment is deemed fixed or determinable and free of contingencies
or significant uncertainties; and (4) collection is probable. Substantially all of our new software license revenues are recognized in this manner.   
  Substantially all of our software license arrangements do not include acceptance provisions. However, if acceptance provisions exist as part of public
policy, for example, in agreements with government entities where acceptance periods are required by law, or within previously executed terms and conditions that are referenced in the current agreement and are short-term in nature, we generally
recognize revenues upon delivery provided the acceptance terms are perfunctory and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. If acceptance provisions are not perfunctory (for example, acceptance provisions that are long-term in nature or
are not included as standard terms of an arrangement), revenues are recognized upon the earlier of receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period.   
  The vast majority of our software license arrangements include software license updates and product support contracts, which are entered into at the
customer s option and are recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement, typically one year. Software license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during
the term of the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel. Software license updates and product support contracts are generally priced as a
percentage of the net new software license fees. Substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually.   
   Revenue Recognition for Multiple-Element Arrangements   Software Products and Software Related Services (Software Arrangements)    
  We often enter into arrangements with customers that purchase both software related products and services from us at the same time, or within close
proximity of one another (referred to as software related multiple-element arrangements). Such software related multiple-element arrangements include the sale of our software products, software license updates and product support contracts and other
software related services whereby software license delivery is followed by the subsequent or contemporaneous delivery of the other elements. For those software related multiple-element arrangements, we have applied the residual method to determine
the amount of license revenues to be recognized pursuant to ASC 985-605. Under the residual method, if fair value exists for undelivered elements in a multiple-element arrangement, such fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred with the
remaining portion of the arrangement consideration recognized upon delivery of the software license or services arrangement. We allocate the fair value of each element of a software related multiple-element arrangement based upon its fair value as
determined by our vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE   described further below), with any remaining amount allocated to the software license.   
    Revenue Recognition for Hardware Systems Products and Hardware Systems Related Services (Nonsoftware Elements)     
  Revenues from the sale of hardware systems products represent amounts earned primarily from the sale of computer servers and storage products. Our revenue
recognition policy for these nonsoftware deliverables is         
   92   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
based upon the accounting guidance contained in ASC 605,  Revenue Recognition , and we exercise judgment and use estimates in connection with the determination of the amount of hardware
systems products and hardware systems related services revenues to be recognized in each accounting period.      Revenues from the sales of
hardware products are recognized when: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) we deliver the products and passage of the title to the buyer occurs; (3) the sale price is fixed or determinable; and (4) collection is
reasonably assured. Revenues that are not recognized at the time of sale because the foregoing conditions are not met are recognized when those conditions are subsequently met. When applicable, we reduce revenues for estimated returns or certain
other incentive programs where we have the ability to sufficiently estimate the effects of these items. Where an arrangement is subject to acceptance criteria and the acceptance provisions are not perfunctory (for example, acceptance provisions that
are long-term in nature or are not included as standard terms of an arrangement), revenues are recognized upon the earlier of receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period.   
  Our hardware systems support offerings generally provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the
functionality of our systems and storage products and can also include product repairs, maintenance services, and technical support services. Hardware systems support contracts are entered into at the customer s option and are recognized
ratably over the contractual term of the arrangements.       Revenue Recognition for Multiple-Element Arrangements   Hardware Systems
Products and Hardware Systems Related Services (Nonsoftware Arrangements)       In the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we early adopted the
provisions of Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-13,  Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements  (ASU 2009-13) and Accounting Standards Update 2009-14,  Software (Topic 985) Certain Revenue
Arrangements that Include Software Elements  (ASU 2009-14). ASU 2009-13 amended existing accounting guidance for revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements. To the extent a deliverable within a multiple-element arrangement is not
accounted for pursuant to other accounting standards, including ASC 985-605,  Software-Revenue Recognition,  ASU 2009-13 establishes a selling price hierarchy that allows for the use of an estimated selling price (ESP) to determine the
allocation of arrangement consideration to a deliverable in a multiple element arrangement where neither VSOE nor third-party evidence (TPE) is available for that deliverable. ASU 2009-14 modifies the scope of ASC 985-605 to exclude tangible
products containing software components and nonsoftware components that function together to deliver the product s essential functionality. In addition, ASU 2009-14 provides guidance on how a vendor should allocate arrangement consideration to
nonsoftware and software deliverables in an arrangement where the vendor sells tangible products containing software components that are essential in delivering the tangible product s functionality.   
  As a result of our early adoption of ASU 2009-13 and ASU 2009-14, we applied the provisions of these accounting standards updates as of the beginning of
fiscal 2010. The impact of our adoption of ASU 2009-13 and ASU 2009-14 was not material to our results of operations for fiscal 2010.      We enter
into arrangements with customers that purchase both nonsoftware related products and services from us at the same time, or within close proximity of one another (referred to as nonsoftware multiple-element arrangements). Each element within a
nonsoftware multiple-element arrangement is accounted for as a separate unit of accounting provided the following criteria are met: the delivered products or services have value to the customer on a standalone basis; and for an arrangement that
includes a general right of return relative to the delivered products or services, delivery or performance of the undelivered product or service is considered probable and is substantially controlled by us. We consider a deliverable to have
standalone value if the product or service is sold separately by us or another vendor or could be resold by the customer. Further, our revenue arrangements generally do not include a general right of return relative to the delivered products. Where
the aforementioned criteria for a separate unit of accounting are not met, the deliverable is combined with the undelivered element(s) and treated as a single unit of accounting for the purposes of allocation of the
        
   93   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
arrangement consideration and revenue recognition. For those units of accounting that include more than one deliverable but are treated as a single unit of accounting, we generally recognize
revenues over the delivery period. For the purposes of revenue classification of the elements that are accounted for as a single unit of accounting, we allocate revenue to hardware systems and services based on a rational and consistent methodology
utilizing our best estimate of fair value of such elements.      For our nonsoftware multiple-element arrangements, we allocate revenue to each
element based on a selling price hierarchy at the arrangement inception. The selling price for each element is based upon the following selling price hierarchy: VSOE if available, TPE if VSOE is not available, or ESP if neither VSOE nor TPE is
available (a description as to how we determine VSOE, TPE and ESP is provided below). If a tangible hardware systems product includes software, we determine whether the tangible hardware systems product and the software work together to deliver the
product s essential functionality and, if so, the entire product is treated as a nonsoftware deliverable. The total arrangement consideration is allocated to each separate unit of accounting for each of the nonsoftware deliverables using the
relative selling prices of each unit based on the aforementioned selling price hierarchy. We limit the amount of revenue recognized for delivered elements to an amount that is not contingent upon future delivery of additional products or services or
meeting of any specified performance conditions.      To determine the selling price in multiple-element arrangements, we establish VSOE of selling
price using the price charged for a deliverable when sold separately and for software license updates and product support and hardware systems support, based on the renewal rates offered to customers. For nonsoftware multiple element arrangements,
TPE is established by evaluating similar and interchangeable competitor products or services in standalone arrangements with similarly situated customers. If we are unable to determine the selling price because VSOE or TPE doesn t exist, we
determine ESP for the purposes of allocating the arrangement by considering several external and internal factors including, but not limited to, pricing practices, margin objectives, competition, geographies in which we offer our products and
services, internal costs and stage of the product lifecycle. The determination of ESP is made through consultation with and approval by our management, taking into consideration our go-to-market strategy. As our, or our competitors , pricing
and go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes to our determination of VSOE, TPE and ESP. As a result, our future revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements could
differ materially from our results in the current period. Selling prices are analyzed on an annual basis or more frequently if we experience significant changes in our selling prices.   
    Revenue Recognition Policies Applicable to both Software and Nonsoftware Elements     
   Revenue Recognition for Multiple-Element Arrangements  Arrangements with Software and Nonsoftware Elements    
  We also enter into multiple-element arrangements that may include a combination of our various software related and nonsoftware related products and
services offerings including hardware systems products, hardware systems support, new software licenses, software license updates and product support, consulting, On Demand and education. In such arrangements, we first allocate the total arrangement
consideration based on the relative selling prices of the software group of elements as a whole and to the nonsoftware elements. We then further allocate consideration within the software group to the respective elements within that group following
the guidance in ASC 985-605 and our policies described above. After the arrangement consideration has been allocated to the elements, we account for each respective element in the arrangement as described above.   
   Other Revenue Recognition Policies Applicable to Software and Nonsoftware Elements    
  Many of our software arrangements include consulting implementation services sold separately under consulting engagement contracts and are included as a
part of our services business. Consulting revenues from these arrangements are generally accounted for separately from new software license revenues because the arrangements qualify as services transactions as defined in ASC 985-605. The more
significant factors         
   94   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
considered in determining whether the revenues should be accounted for separately include the nature of services (i.e. consideration of whether the services are essential to the functionality of
the licensed product), degree of risk, availability of services from other vendors, timing of payments and impact of milestones or acceptance criteria on the realizability of the software license fee. Revenues for consulting services are generally
recognized as the services are performed. If there is a significant uncertainty about the project completion or receipt of payment for the consulting services, revenues are deferred until the uncertainty is sufficiently resolved. We estimate the
proportional performance on contracts with fixed or  not to exceed  fees on a monthly basis utilizing hours incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated hours to complete the project. If we do not have a sufficient basis to measure
progress towards completion, revenues are recognized when we receive final acceptance from the customer. When total cost estimates exceed revenues, we accrue for the estimated losses immediately using cost estimates that are based upon an average
fully burdened daily rate applicable to the consulting organization delivering the services. The complexity of the estimation process and factors relating to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the proportional
performance method of accounting affects the amounts of revenues and related expenses reported in our consolidated financial statements. A number of internal and external factors can affect our estimates, including labor rates, utilization and
efficiency variances and specification and testing requirement changes.      On Demand is comprised of Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer
Services and is a part of our services business. Oracle On Demand services are offered as standalone arrangements or as a part of arrangements to customers buying new software licenses or hardware systems products and services. Our On Demand
services provide multi-featured software and hardware management and maintenance services for our software and hardware systems products delivered at our data center facilities, select partner data centers or customer facilities. Advanced Customer
Services provide customers with services to architect, implement and manage customer IT environments including software and hardware systems product management services, industry-specific solution support centers and remote and on-site expert
services. Depending upon the nature of the arrangement, revenues from On Demand services are recognized as services are performed or ratably over the term of the service period, which is generally one year or less.   
  Education revenues are a part of our services business and include instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our software and
hardware products. Education revenues are recognized as the classes or other education offerings are delivered.      If an arrangement contains
multiple elements and does not qualify for separate accounting for the product and service transactions, then new software license revenues and/or hardware systems products revenues, including the costs of hardware systems products, are generally
recognized together with the services based on contract accounting using either the percentage-of-completion or completed-contract method. Contract accounting is applied to any bundled software, hardware systems and services arrangements:
(1) that include milestones or customer specific acceptance criteria that may affect collection of the software license or hardware systems product fees; (2) where consulting services include significant modification or customization of
the software or hardware systems product; (3) where significant consulting services are provided for in the software license contract or hardware systems product contract without additional charge or are substantially discounted; or
(4) where the software license or hardware systems product payment is tied to the performance of consulting services. For the purposes of revenue classification of the elements that are accounted for as a single unit of accounting, we allocate
revenues to software and nonsoftware elements based on a rational and consistent methodology utilizing our best estimate of fair value of such elements.   
  We also evaluate arrangements with governmental entities containing  fiscal funding  or  termination for convenience  provisions, when
such provisions are required by law, to determine the probability of possible cancellation. We consider multiple factors, including the history with the customer in similar transactions, the  essential use  of the software or hardware
systems products and the planning, budgeting and approval processes undertaken by the governmental entity. If we determine upon execution of these arrangements that the likelihood   
     
   95   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
of cancellation is remote, we then recognize revenues once all of the criteria described above have been met. If such a determination cannot be made, revenues are recognized upon the earlier of
cash receipt or approval of the applicable funding provision by the governmental entity.      We assess whether fees are fixed or determinable at
the time of sale and recognize revenues if all other revenue recognition requirements are met. Our standard payment terms are net 30 days. However, payment terms may vary based on the country in which the agreement is executed. Payments that are due
within six months are generally deemed to be fixed or determinable based on our successful collection history on such arrangements, and thereby satisfy the required criteria for revenue recognition.   
  While most of our arrangements for sales within our software and hardware systems businesses include short-term payment terms, we have a standard practice
of providing long-term financing to creditworthy customers through our financing division. Since fiscal 1989, when our financing division was formed, we have established a history of collection, without concessions, on these receivables with payment
terms that generally extend up to five years from the contract date. Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize new software license revenues and hardware systems products revenues for these arrangements upon
delivery, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions. We have generally sold receivables financed through our financing division on a non-recourse basis to third party financing institutions and we classify the proceeds from these
sales as cash flows from operating activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. We account for the sales of these receivables as  true sales  as defined in ASC 860,  Transfers and Servicing .   
  In addition, we sell hardware products to leasing companies that, in turn, lease these products to end-users. In transactions where the leasing companies
have no recourse to us in the event of default by the end-user, we recognize revenue at point of shipment or point of delivery, depending on the shipping terms and if all the other revenue recognition criteria have been met. In arrangements where
the leasing companies have more than insignificant recourse to us in the event of default by the end-user (defined as recourse leasing), we recognize both the product revenue and the related cost of the product as the payments are made to the
leasing company by the end-user, generally ratably over the lease term.      Our customers include several of our suppliers and on rare occasion,
we have purchased goods or services for our operations from these vendors at or about the same time that we have sold our products to these same companies (Concurrent Transactions). Software license agreements or sales of hardware systems that occur
within a three-month time period from the date we have purchased goods or services from that same customer are reviewed for appropriate accounting treatment and disclosure. When we acquire goods or services from a customer, we negotiate the purchase
separately from any sales transaction, at terms we consider to be at arm s length, and settle the purchase in cash. We recognize new software license revenues or hardware systems product revenues from Concurrent Transactions if all of our
revenue recognition criteria are met and the goods and services acquired are necessary for our current operations.       Business Combinations
      In fiscal 2010, we adopted ASC 805,  Business Combinations , which revised the accounting guidance that we were required to apply for
our acquisitions in comparison to prior fiscal years. The underlying principles are similar to the previous guidance and require that we recognize separately from goodwill the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, generally at their
acquisition date fair values. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best
estimates and assumptions as a part of the purchase price allocation process to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during
the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final
determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of operations.   
     
   96   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   As a result of adopting the revised accounting guidance provided for by ASC 805 as of the beginning of
fiscal 2010, certain of our policies differ when accounting for acquisitions in fiscal 2010 and prospective periods in comparison to the accounting for acquisitions in fiscal 2009 and prior periods, including:   

the fair value of in-process research and development is recorded as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until the underlying project is completed, at
which time the intangible asset is amortized over its estimated useful life, or abandoned, at which time the intangible asset is expensed (prior to fiscal 2010, in-process research and development was expensed at the acquisition date);

the direct transaction costs associated with the business combination are expensed as incurred (prior to fiscal 2010, direct transaction costs were
included as a part of the purchase price);          

the costs to exit or restructure certain activities of an acquired company are accounted for separately from the business combination (prior to fiscal
2010, these restructuring and exist costs were included as a part of the assumed obligations in deriving the purchase price allocation); and          

any changes in estimates associated with income tax valuation allowances or uncertain tax positions after the measurement period are generally
recognized as income tax expense with application of this policy also applied prospectively to all of our business combinations regardless of the acquisition date (prior to fiscal 2010, any such changes were generally included as a part of the
purchase price allocation indefinitely).         Costs to exit or restructure certain activities of an acquired company or our
internal operations are accounted for as one-time termination and exit costs pursuant to ASC 420,  Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations , and, as noted above, are accounted for separately from the business combination. A liability for a cost
associated with an exit or disposal activity is recognized and measured at its fair value in our consolidated statement of operations in the period in which the liability is incurred. When estimating the fair value of facility restructuring
activities, assumptions are applied regarding estimated sub-lease payments to be received, which can differ materially from actual results. This may require us to revise our initial estimates which may materially affect our results of operations and
financial position in the period the revision is made.      For a given acquisition, we generally identify certain pre-acquisition contingencies as
of the acquisition date and may extend our review and evaluation of these pre-acquisition contingencies throughout the measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition date) in order to obtain sufficient information to assess whether we
include these contingencies as a part of the purchase price allocation and, if so, to determine the estimated amounts.      If we determine that a
pre-acquisition contingency (non-income tax related) is probable in nature and estimable as of the acquisition date, we record our best estimate for such a contingency as a part of the preliminary purchase price allocation. We often continue to
gather information for and evaluate our pre-acquisition contingencies throughout the measurement period and if we make changes to the amounts recorded or if we identify additional pre-acquisition contingencies during the measurement period, such
amounts will be included in the purchase price allocation during the measurement period and, subsequently, in our results of operations.      In
addition, uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances assumed in connection with a business combination are initially estimated as of the acquisition date and we reevaluate these items quarterly with any adjustments to our
preliminary estimates being recorded to goodwill provided that we are within the measurement period and we continue to collect information in order to determine their estimated values. Subsequent to the measurement period or our final determination
of the tax allowance s or contingency s estimated value, changes to these uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances will affect our provision for income taxes in our consolidated statement of operations and could have a
material impact on our results of operations and financial position.         
   97   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
    Marketable and Non-Marketable Securities    
  In accordance with ASC 320,  Investments Debt and Equity Securities,  and based on our intentions regarding these instruments, we classify
substantially all of our marketable debt and equity securities as available-for-sale. Marketable debt and equity securities are reported at fair value, with all unrealized gains (losses) reflected net of tax in stockholders  equity. If we
determine that an investment has an other than temporary decline in fair value, we recognize the investment loss in non-operating income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. We periodically evaluate our
investments to determine if impairment charges are required.      We hold investments in certain non-marketable equity securities in which we do
not have a controlling interest or significant influence. These equity securities are recorded at cost and included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. If based on the terms of our ownership of these non-marketable
securities we determine that we exercise significant influence on these non-marketable securities, we apply the requirements of ASC 323,  Investments Equity Method and Joint Ventures  to account for such investments .  Our
non-marketable securities are subject to periodic impairment reviews and we recorded impairment losses of $17 million related to non-marketable equity securities and other investments in fiscal 2010. Losses related to non-marketable equity
securities and other investments were nominal in fiscal 2009 and 2008.       Fair Value of Financial Instruments    
  We apply the provisions of ASC 820,  Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , to our financial instruments that we are required to carry at fair
value pursuant to other accounting standards, including our marketable debt and equity securities and our derivative financial instruments. We have not applied the fair value option to those financial instruments that we are not required to carry at
fair value pursuant to other accounting standards, including our senior notes outstanding.      The additional disclosures regarding our fair value
measurements are included in Note 4.       Allowances for Doubtful Accounts    
  We record allowances for doubtful accounts based upon a specific review of all significant outstanding invoices. For those invoices not specifically
reviewed, provisions are provided at differing rates, based upon the age of the receivable, the collection history associated with the geographic region that the receivable was recorded in and current economic trends.   
   Concentrations of Credit Risk       Financial
instruments that are potentially subject to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and trade receivables. Our cash and cash equivalents are generally held with a number of large, diverse
financial institutions worldwide to reduce the amount of exposure to any single financial institution. Investment policies have been implemented that limit purchases of marketable debt securities to investment grade securities. We do not require
collateral to secure accounts receivable. The risk with respect to trade receivables is mitigated by credit evaluations we perform on our customers, the short duration of our payment terms for the significant majority of our customer contracts and
by the diversification of our customer base. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 or 2008.   
   Inventories       Inventories are stated at
the lower of cost or market value. Cost is computed using standard cost, which approximates actual cost, on a first-in, first-out basis. We evaluate our ending inventories for estimated excess quantities and obsolescence. This evaluation includes
analysis of sales levels by product and projections of future         
   98   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
demand within specific time horizons (generally six months or less). Inventories in excess of future demand are written down and charged to the provision for inventories, which is a component of
hardware systems products expenses. In addition, we assess the impact of changing technology to our inventories and we write down inventories that are considered obsolete. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower-cost basis for that
inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis.   
   Other Receivables       Other receivables
represent value-added tax and sales tax receivables associated with the sale of our products and services to third parties. Other receivables are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets in our consolidated balance sheets and totaled
$733 million and $555 million at May 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.       Property, Plant and Equipment    
  Property, plant and equipment is stated at the lower of cost or realizable value, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed using the
straight-line method based on estimated useful lives of the assets, which range from one to fifty years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of estimated useful lives or lease terms, as appropriate. Property, plant and equipment is
periodically reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We did not recognize any significant property impairment charges in fiscal 2010, 2009 or 2008.
      Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairment Assessments    
  Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price in a business combination over the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired.
Intangible assets that are not considered to have an indefinite useful life are amortized over their useful lives, which range from one to ten years. Each period we evaluate the estimated remaining useful life of purchased intangible assets and
whether events or changes in circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization.      The carrying amounts of these assets
are periodically reviewed for impairment (at least annually for goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets) and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. The goodwill
impairment analysis is comprised of two steps. In the first step, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. Our reporting units are consistent with the reportable segments identified in Note 16 below. If the fair value
of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not considered impaired and we are not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit
exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting unit s goodwill
exceeds its implied fair value, then we would record an impairment loss equal to the difference. Recoverability of finite lived intangible assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of each asset to the future undiscounted cash flows
the asset is expected to generate. Recoverability of indefinite lived intangible assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the future discounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If the asset is considered
to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset. We did not recognize any goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in fiscal 2010, 2009 or 2008.
      Derivative Financial Instruments    
  During fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, we used derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency and interest rate risks. We account for these
instruments in accordance with ASC 815,  Derivatives and Hedging , which requires that every derivative instrument be recorded on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability   
     
   99   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
measured at its fair value as of the reporting date. ASC 815 also requires that changes in our derivatives  fair values be recognized in earnings, unless specific hedge accounting and
documentation criteria are met (i.e. the instruments are accounted for as hedges). We recorded the effective portions of the gain or loss on derivative financial instruments that were designated as cash flow hedges or net investment hedges in
accumulated other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The offset to gain or loss on derivative financial instruments that were designated as fair value hedges were recorded to the item for which the risk is being
hedged. Any ineffective or excluded portion of a designated cash flow hedge or net investment hedge, and gains or losses on our fair value hedges are recognized in earnings.   
  We adopted the disclosure requirements of ASC 815 during fiscal 2009 and have provided these disclosures prospectively from the year of adoption in Note
11.       Legal Contingencies       We
are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. Quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. For legal and other contingencies that are not a part of a business combination,
if the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. A description of our accounting policies associated with contingencies assumed
as a part of a business combination is provided under  Business Combinations  above.       Shipping Costs    
  Our shipping and handling costs for hardware systems products sales are included in hardware systems products expenses for all periods presented.
      Foreign Currency       We
transact business in various foreign currencies. In general, the functional currency of a foreign operation is the local country s currency. Consequently, revenues and expenses of operations outside the United States are translated into U.S.
Dollars using weighted average exchange rates while assets and liabilities of operations outside the United States are translated into U.S. Dollars using exchange rates at the balance sheet date. The effects of foreign currency translation
adjustments are included in stockholders  equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Foreign currency transaction (losses) gains, net which include the effects of our
derivative financial instruments, are included in non-operating income (expenses), net in our consolidated statements of operations and were $(148) million, $(55) million and $40 million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
   Stock-Based Compensation       We account for
share-based payments, including grants of employee stock options and restricted stock-based awards and purchases under employee stock purchase plans, in accordance with ASC 718,  Compensation-Stock Compensation,  which requires that share-based
payments (to the extent they are compensatory) be recognized in our consolidated statements of operations based on their fair values and the estimated number of shares we ultimately expect will vest. In addition, we have applied certain of the
provisions of the SEC s Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (Topic 14), as amended, that is also made a part of ASC 718, in our accounting for stock-based compensation. We recognize stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis
over the service period of the award, which is generally four years.      We record deferred tax assets for stock-based compensation plan awards
that result in deductions on our income tax returns based on the amount of stock-based compensation recognized and the statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which we will receive a tax deduction. We have adopted and apply the alternative
transition         
   100   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
method as defined within ASC 718 to calculate the excess tax benefits available for use in offsetting future tax shortfalls and to determine the excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation
that we reclassify as cash flows from financing activities.       Advertising    
  All advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expenses, which are included within sales and marketing expenses, were $75 million, $71
million and $81 million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.       Research and Development    
  All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Costs eligible for capitalization under ASC 985-20,  Software-Costs of Software to be Sold,
Leased or Marketed , were not material to our consolidated financial statements in fiscal 2010, 2009 or 2008.       Acquisition Related and
Other Expenses       Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees,
stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments after the measurement period or purchase price allocation period has ended, and certain other operating expenses (income), net.
Stock-based compensation included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested options or restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whereby vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the
original terms of those options or restricted stock-based awards. As a result of our adoption of the FASB s revised accounting guidance for business combinations as of the beginning of fiscal 2010, certain acquisition related and other expenses
are now recorded as expenses in our statements of operations that would previously have been included as a part of the consideration transferred and capitalized as a part of the accounting for our acquisitions pursuant to previous accounting rules,
primarily direct transaction costs such as professional services fees.       
    In fiscal 2008, we sold certain of our land and buildings for $153 million in cash. Concurrent with the sale, we
leased the property back from the buyer for a period of up to three years. We have accounted for this transaction in accordance with ASC 840,  Leases  and ASC 360,  Property, Plant and Equipment.  We deferred $19 million of the gain on the
sale representing the present value of the operating lease commitment and recognized a gain of approximately $57 million for fiscal 2008. The deferred portion of the gain was recognized as a reduction of rent expense over the operating lease term.
      Non-Operating Income (Expense), net    
  Non-operating income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange gains (losses), the noncontrolling interests in
the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Japan), and net other income (losses), including net realized gains and   
     
   101   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
losses related to all of our investments and net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio that we classify as trading.   
   
    Included in non-operating income (expense), net were net foreign currency losses in fiscal 2010 relating to our Venezuelan
subsidiary s operations. Effective December 1, 2009, we designated our Venezuelan subsidiary as  highly inflationary  in accordance with ASC 830,  Foreign Currency Matters , and began using the U.S. Dollar as the
subsidiary s new functional currency. During fiscal 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency and we recognized $81 million of foreign currency losses due to the remeasurement of certain assets and liabilities and conversion of
certain cash balances of our Venezuelan subsidiary into U.S. Dollars.       Income Taxes    
  We account for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740,  Income Taxes . Deferred income taxes are recorded for the expected tax consequences of
temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and amounts recognized for income tax purposes. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount of future tax
benefit that is more likely than not to be realized.      At the beginning of fiscal 2008, we adopted revised guidance contained in ASC 740 to
account for our uncertain tax positions. The revised guidance contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The first step is to determine if the weight of available
evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained in an audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is
more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in our provision for income taxes line of our consolidated statements of operations.   
  A description of our accounting policies associated with tax related contingencies and valuation allowances assumed as a part of a business combination is
provided under  Business Combinations  above.       Recent Accounting Pronouncements    
      Milestone Method of Revenue Recognition:        In April 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update
No. 2010-17,    Revenue Recognition Milestone Method (Topic 605)         Revenue Recognition    (ASU 2010-17). ASU 2010-17 provides guidance on defining the milestone and determining when the use of the
milestone method of revenue recognition for research or development transactions is appropriate. It provides criteria for evaluating if the milestone is substantive and clarifies that a vendor can recognize consideration that is contingent upon
achievement of a milestone as revenue in the period in which the milestone is achieved, if the milestone meets all the criteria to be considered substantive. ASU 2010-17 is effective for us in fiscal 2012 and should be applied prospectively. Early
adoption is permitted. If we were to adopt ASU 2010-17 prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we must apply it retrospectively to the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption and to all interim periods presented. We are currently evaluating the
impact of the pending adoption of ASU 2010-17 on our consolidated financial statements.           Disclosure Requirements Related to Fair
Value Measurements:      In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2010-06,      Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements (Topic   
   820)           Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures      (ASU 2010-06), to add additional disclosures about the       
     
   102   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
     
  different classes of assets and liabilities measured at fair value, the valuation techniques and inputs used, the activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, and the transfers between
Levels 1, 2, and 3 (as defined in Note 4 below). Certain provisions of this update will be effective for us in fiscal 2012 and we are currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of this standards update on our consolidated financial
statements.              Transfers of Financial Assets:        In June 2009, the FASB issued and
subsequently codified Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-16,    Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860)       Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets    (ASU 2009-16). ASU 2009-16 eliminates the concept of
a  qualifying special-purpose entity  with regards to transfer of financial assets and changes the requirements for derecognizing financial assets. We will adopt this new accounting standards update in fiscal 2011 and are currently
evaluating the impact of its pending adoption on our consolidated financial statements.          Variable Interest
Entities:      In June 2009, the FASB issued and subsequently codified Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-17,  Consolidations (Topic 810) Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with
Variable Interest Entities  (ASU 2009-17). ASU 2009-17 amends the evaluation criteria to identify the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity as provided pursuant to existing accounting standards and requires ongoing reassessments of
whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of the variable interest entity. We will adopt ASU 2009-17 in fiscal 2011 and are currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption on our consolidated financial statements.   

2.   
   ACQUISITIONS          Acquisition of Sun
Microsystems, Inc.       On January 26, 2010 we completed our acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc., a provider of hardware systems,
software and services, by means of a merger of one of our wholly owned subsidiaries with and into Sun such that Sun became a wholly owned subsidiary of Oracle. We acquired Sun to, among other things, expand our product offerings by adding Sun s
existing hardware systems business and broadening our software and services offerings. We have included the financial results of Sun in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. For fiscal 2010, we estimate that Sun s
contribution to our total revenues was $2.8 billion, which included allocations of revenues from our software and services businesses that were not separately identifiable due to our integration activities. For fiscal 2010, Sun reduced our operating
income by $620 million, which included management s allocations and estimates of revenues and expenses that were not separately identifiable due to our integration activities, intangible asset amortization, restructuring expenses and
stock-based compensation expenses.      The total purchase price for Sun was approximately $7.3 billion and was comprised of:   

(in millions, except per share amounts)    

Acquisition of approximately 757 million shares of outstanding common stock of Sun at $9.50 per share in
cash   
      
  $  
    7,196   
 
    Fair values of stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed   

99   

Total purchase price   
      
  $  
  7,295   

The fair values of stock options assumed were estimated using a
Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model. The fair values of unvested Sun stock options and restricted stock-based awards as they relate to post combination services will be recorded as operating expense over the remaining service periods, while
the fair values of vested stock options and restricted stock-based awards, as they relate to pre combination services, are included in the total purchase price.   
    Preliminary Purchase Price Allocation     
  Pursuant to our business combinations accounting policy, the total purchase price for Sun was allocated to the preliminary net tangible and intangible
assets based upon their preliminary fair values as of January 26, 2010 as         
   103   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
set forth below. The excess of the purchase price over the preliminary net tangible assets and intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. The preliminary allocation of the purchase price was
based upon a preliminary valuation and our estimates and assumptions are subject to change within the measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition date). The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocation that are not yet
finalized relate to the fair values of certain tangible assets and liabilities acquired, certain legal matters, income and non-income based taxes and residual goodwill. We expect to continue to obtain information to assist us in determining the fair
values of the net assets acquired at the acquisition date during the measurement period. Our preliminary purchase price allocation for Sun is as follows:       
    We generally do not expect the goodwill recognized to be deductible for income tax purposes.   
    Valuations of Intangible Assets Acquired     
  The following table sets forth the components of intangible assets acquired in connection with the Sun acquisition:   
   
    Hardware systems support agreements and related relationships and customer relationships represent the fair values
of the underlying relationships and agreements with Sun s customers. Developed technology represents the fair values of Sun products that have reached technological feasibility and are a part of Sun s product lines. Core technology
represents the fair values of the Sun processes, patents and trade secrets related to the design and development of Sun s products. This proprietary know-how can be leveraged to develop new technology and improve our existing products.
Trademarks represent the fair values of brand and name recognition associated with the marketing of Sun s products and services. In-process research and development represents the fair values of incomplete Sun research and development projects
that had not reached technological feasibility as of the date of acquisition.         
   104   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
     Preliminary Pre-Acquisition Contingencies Assumed     
  We have evaluated and continue to evaluate pre-acquisition contingencies relating to Sun that existed as of the acquisition date. We have preliminarily
determined that certain of these pre-acquisition contingencies are probable in nature and estimable as of the acquisition date and, accordingly, have preliminarily recorded our best estimates for these contingencies as a part of the preliminary
purchase price allocation for Sun. We continue to gather information for and evaluate substantially all pre-acquisition contingencies that we have assumed from Sun. If we make changes to the amounts recorded or identify additional pre-acquisition
contingencies during the remainder of the measurement period, such amounts recorded will be included in the purchase price allocation during the measurement period and, subsequently, in our results of operations.   
   Other Fiscal 2010 Acquisitions and Proposed Acquisition of Phase Forward Incorporated and Others    
  During fiscal 2010, we acquired other companies and purchased certain technology and development assets to expand our product and services offerings.
These acquisitions were not significant individually or in the aggregate. We have included the financial results of these companies in our consolidated results from their respective acquisition dates. The preliminary purchase price allocations for
each of these acquisitions were based upon a preliminary valuation and our estimates and assumptions for certain of these acquisitions are subject to change as we obtain additional information for our estimates during the respective measurement
periods. The primary areas of those purchase price allocations that are not yet finalized relate to identifiable intangible assets, certain legal matters, income and non-income based taxes and residual goodwill.   
  Separately, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we agreed to acquire Phase Forward Incorporated, a provider of applications for life sciences companies
and healthcare providers, for $17.00 per share in cash, amounting to approximately $810 million. Our proposed acquisition of Phase Forward is subject to stockholder and regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions. In addition, we
agreed to acquire certain other companies for amounts that are not material to our business.       Fiscal 2009 Acquisitions    
  During fiscal 2009, we acquired several companies and purchased certain technology and development assets to expand our product offerings. These
acquisitions were not individually significant. We have included the financial results of these companies in our consolidated results from their respective acquisition dates. In the aggregate, the total purchase price for these acquisitions was
approximately $1.2 billion, which consisted of approximately $1.2 billion in cash, $1 million for the fair value of stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed and $13 million for transaction costs. In allocating the total purchase price
for these acquisitions based on estimated fair values, we recorded $708 million of goodwill, $587 million of identifiable intangible assets, $96 million of net tangible liabilities (resulting primarily from deferred tax and restructuring liabilities
assumed as a part of these transactions) and $10 million of in-process research and development.       Fiscal 2008 Acquisitions    
    BEA Systems, Inc.        We acquired BEA
Systems, Inc. on April 29, 2008 by means of a merger of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries with and into BEA such that BEA became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oracle. We acquired BEA to, among other things, expand our offering of middleware
products. We have included the financial results of BEA in our consolidated financial results effective April 29, 2008.      The total
purchase price for BEA was $8.6 billion which consisted of $8.3 billion in cash paid to acquire the outstanding common stock of BEA, $225 million for the fair value of BEA stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed and $10 million for
acquisition related transaction costs. In allocating the purchase price based on estimated fair values, we recorded approximately $4.5 billion of goodwill, $3.3 billion of identifiable intangible assets, $733 million of net tangible assets and $17
million of in-process research and development.         
   105   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
     Other Fiscal 2008 Acquisitions     
  During fiscal 2008, we acquired several other companies and purchased certain technology and development assets. Our fiscal 2008 acquisitions, other than
BEA, were not significant individually or in the aggregate. We have included the effects of these transactions in our results of operations prospectively from the respective dates of the acquisitions.   
   Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information    
  The unaudited pro forma financial information in the table below summarizes the combined results of operations for Oracle, Sun and certain other companies
that we acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2009 (which were collectively significant for the purposes of unaudited pro forma financial information disclosure) as though the companies were combined as of the beginning of fiscal 2009. The pro
forma financial information for all periods presented also includes the business combination accounting effects resulting from these acquisitions including our amortization charges from acquired intangible assets (certain of which are preliminary),
the elimination of certain goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges incurred by Sun, stock-based compensation charges for unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed, adjustments to interest expense for borrowings and
the related tax effects as though the aforementioned companies were combined as of the beginning of fiscal 2009. The pro forma financial information as presented below is for informational purposes only and is not indicative of the results of
operations that would have been achieved if the acquisitions and any borrowings undertaken to finance these acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of fiscal 2009.   
  The unaudited pro forma financial information for fiscal 2010 combined the historical results of Oracle for fiscal 2010, the historical results of Sun for
the eight months ended September 27, 2009 (due to differences in reporting periods) and the historical results for certain other companies that we acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2010 based upon their respective previous reporting
periods, the dates that these companies were acquired by us, and the effects of the pro forma adjustments listed above.      The unaudited pro
forma financial information for fiscal 2009 combined the historical results of Oracle for fiscal 2009, the historical results of Sun for the year ended June 30, 2009 (due to differences in reporting periods) and the historical results of
certain other companies that we acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2009 based upon their respective previous reporting periods and the dates these companies were acquired by us, and the effects of the pro forma adjustments listed above. The
unaudited pro forma financial information was as follows for fiscal 2010 and 2009:       

3.   
   CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES      
  Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, money market funds, Tier-1 commercial paper, U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S.
government agency and government sponsored enterprise obligations, and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities primarily consist of time deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper, corporate
notes, U.S. Treasury obligations and U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise debt obligations and certain other securities.   
  The amortized principal amounts of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities approximated their fair values at May 31, 2010 and 2009. We
use the specific identification method to determine any realized gains or losses from the sale of our marketable securities classified as available-for-sale. Such realized gains and losses   
     
   106   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
were insignificant for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008. The following table summarizes the components of our cash equivalents and marketable securities held, substantially all of which were classified
as available-for-sale:       
    Substantially all of our marketable security investments held as of
May 31, 2010 mature within one year. Our investment portfolio is subject to market risk due to changes in interest rates. We place our investments with high credit quality issuers as described above and, by policy, limit the amount of credit
exposure to any one issuer. As stated in our investment policy, we are averse to principal loss and seek to preserve our invested funds by limiting default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk.   

4.   
   FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS         We perform fair
value measurements in accordance with the guidance provided by ASC 820,  Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures . ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we
would transact and consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions, and risk of nonperformance.   
  ASC 820 establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs
when measuring fair value. An asset s or liability s categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. ASC 820 establishes three levels of inputs that
may be used to measure fair value:       

Level 1:    quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;      

Level 2:    inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices in active markets
for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of
the assets or liabilities; or          

Level 3:    unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair values of
the assets or liabilities.            
   107   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
    Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis    
  Our assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, excluding accrued interest components, consisted of the following types of
instruments (Level 1 and 2 inputs are defined above):       
    Our valuation techniques used to measure the fair values of our money
market funds and U.S. Treasury, U.S. government and U.S. government agency debt securities, that were classified as Level 1 in the table above, were derived from quoted market prices as substantially all of these instruments have maturity dates (if
any) within one year from our date of purchase and active markets for these instruments exist. Our valuation techniques used to measure the fair values of all other instruments listed in the table above, generally all of which mature within one year
and the counterparties to which have high credit ratings, were derived from the following: non-binding market consensus prices that are corroborated by observable market data, quoted market prices for similar instruments, or pricing models, such as
discounted cash flow techniques, with all significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. Our discounted cash flow techniques used observable market inputs, such as LIBOR-based yield curves, and currency spot and forward
rates.      Our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and derivative financial instruments are recognized and measured at fair value in
our consolidated financial statements. Based on the trading prices of our $14.62 billion and $10.25 billion borrowings, which included senior notes and commercial paper notes, that were outstanding as of May 31, 2010 and May 31, 2009,
respectively, and the interest rates we could obtain for other borrowings with similar terms at those dates, the estimated fair values of our borrowings at May 31, 2010 and May 31, 2009 were $15.90 billion and $10.79 billion, respectively.

5.   
   INVENTORIES         Inventories consisted of the
following as of May 31, 2010 (insignificant as of May 31, 2009):       
       
   108   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          

6.   
   PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT         Property,
plant and equipment, net consisted of the following:       

7.   
   INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL         The
changes in intangible assets for fiscal 2010 and the net book value of intangible assets at May 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows:       
    Total amortization expense related to our intangible assets was $2.0 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.2 billion in
fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As of May 31, 2010, estimated future amortization expense related to our intangible assets subject to amortization was $2.3 billion in fiscal 2011, $2.0 billion in fiscal 2012, $1.6 billion in fiscal
2013, $1.4 billion in fiscal 2014, $1.0 billion in fiscal 2015 and $638 million thereafter.         
   109   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   The changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill, which is generally not deductible for tax purposes, by
operating segment for fiscal 2010 and 2009 were as follows:       

(1)   
    Represents the goodwill allocation associated with certain acquisitions that was allocated to our software business operating segments and services
business upon the completion of certain valuations.          

(2)   
    Pursuant to our business combinations accounting policy, we record goodwill adjustments for the effect on goodwill of changes to net assets acquired
during the measurement or purchase price allocation period (either of which can be up to one year from the date of an acquisition). Goodwill adjustments for our services business includes $82 million that primarily relates to the reclassification of
goodwill associated with certain acquired product offerings to our new software licenses operating segment. Goodwill adjustments for acquisitions consummated since the beginning of fiscal 2010 were generally balance sheet related with insignificant
effects to our previously reported operating results.          

8.   
   NOTES PAYABLE AND OTHER BORROWINGS         Notes
payable and other borrowings consisted of the following:       

(1)   
    Refer to Note 11 for a description of our accounting for fair value hedges      
     
   110   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
    Senior Notes and Other    
  In July 2009, we issued $4.5 billion of fixed rate senior notes comprised of $1.5 billion of 3.75% notes due July 2014 (2014 Notes), $1.75 billion of
5.00% notes due July 2019 (2019 Notes) and $1.25 billion of 6.125% notes due July 2039 (2039 Notes). We issued these senior notes for general corporate purposes and for our acquisition of Sun and acquisition related expenses.   
  In April 2008, we issued $5.0 billion of fixed rate senior notes, of which $1.25 billion of 4.95% senior notes is due April 2013 (2013 Notes), $2.5
billion of 5.75% senior notes is due April 2018 (2018 Notes), and $1.25 billion of 6.50% senior notes is due April 2038 (2038 Notes). We issued these senior notes to finance the acquisition of BEA and for general corporate purposes.   
  In May 2007, we issued $2.0 billion of floating rate senior notes, of which $1.0 billion was due and paid in May 2009 and $1.0 billion was due and paid in
May 2010. We had also entered into certain variable to fixed interest rate swap agreements related to these senior notes, which settled as of the same dates the notes were repaid (see Note 11).   
  In January 2006, we issued $5.75 billion of senior notes, of which $2.25 billion of 5.00% senior notes due 2011 (2011 Notes) and $2.0 billion of 5.25%
senior notes due 2016 (2016 Notes and together with the 2011 Notes, Original Senior Notes) remained outstanding as of May 31, 2010 and 2009. In June 2006, we completed a registered exchange offer with substantially identical terms to the
Original Senior Notes.      The effective interest yields of the 2011 Notes, 2013 Notes, 2014 Notes, 2016 Notes, 2018 Notes, 2019 Notes, 2038 Notes
and 2039 Notes (collectively, the Senior Notes) at May 31, 2010 were 5.08%, 4.96%, 3.75%, 5.32%, 5.76%, 5.05%, 6.52% and 6.19%, respectively. Interest is payable semi-annually for the Senior Notes. In September 2009, we entered into interest
rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with the 2014 Notes so that the interest payable on these notes effectively became variable (1.44% at May 31, 2010; see Note 11 for
additional information). All of the Senior Notes may be redeemed at any time, subject to payment of a make-whole premium.      The Senior Notes
rank pari passu with the Commercial Paper Notes (defined below) that we have issued, any other notes we may issue in the future pursuant to the CP Program described below and all existing and future senior indebtedness of Oracle Corporation. All
existing and future liabilities of the subsidiaries of Oracle Corporation will be effectively senior to the Senior Notes and our Commercial Paper Notes.   
  Separately, shortly after the closing of our acquisition of Sun we repaid, in full, $700 million of Sun s legacy convertible notes in the third
quarter of fiscal 2010.      We were in compliance with all debt-related covenants at May 31, 2010. Future principal payments for all of our
borrowings, including borrowings pursuant to our CP Program described below, at May 31, 2010 were as follows: $3.1 billion in fiscal 2011, none in fiscal 2012, $1.3 billion in fiscal 2013, none in fiscal 2014, $1.5 billion in fiscal 2015 and
$8.8 billion thereafter.       Commercial Paper Program   Commercial Paper Notes    
  We entered into a commercial paper program in February 2006 (amended in May 2008) via dealer agreements with Banc of America Securities LLC and JP Morgan
Securities, Inc. and an Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement entered into in February 2006 with JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (CP Program). On May 11, 2010, we reduced the overall capacity of our CP Program from $5.0 billion to $3.0
billion after our March 17, 2009 $2.0 billion 364-day revolving credit agreement terminated pursuant to its terms (see additional discussion below).   
  During fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, we issued $2.8 billion, none and $1.2 billion of unsecured short-term commercial paper notes (Commercial Paper Notes),
respectively, pursuant to the CP Program, which allows us to issue and sell unsecured short-term promissory notes pursuant to a private placement exemption from the   
     
   111   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
registration requirements under federal and state securities laws. As of May 31, 2010, we had $881 million of Commercial Paper Notes outstanding at a weighted average yield, including
issuance costs, of 0.28% that mature at various dates through July 15, 2010 (none outstanding as of May 31, 2009). We back-stop these notes with our revolving credit agreement and therefore, as of May 31, 2010, we consider that we
have $2.1 billion of capacity remaining under our reduced CP Program.       Revolving Credit Agreements    
  On March 16, 2010, our $2.0 billion, 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement dated March 17, 2009, among Oracle; the lenders named therein; Wachovia
Bank, National Association, as administrative agent; BNP Paribas as syndication agent; the documentation agents named therein; and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, and BNP Paribas Securities Corp., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners (the
2009 Credit Agreement), terminated pursuant to its terms. No debt was outstanding pursuant to the 2009 Credit Agreement as of its date of termination.   
  As of May 31, 2010, we had a $3.0 billion, five-year Revolving Credit Agreement with certain lenders that we entered into in March 2006 (the 2006
Credit Agreement). The 2006 Credit Agreement provides for unsecured revolving credit facilities, which can also be used to back-stop any Commercial Paper Notes (defined above) that we may issue and for working capital and other general corporate
purposes. Subject to certain conditions stated in the 2006 Credit Agreement, we may borrow, prepay and re-borrow amounts under the facilities at any time during the term of the 2006 Credit Agreement. Interest for the 2006 Credit Agreement is based
on either (a) a LIBOR-based formula or (b) a formula based on Wells Fargo s prime rate or on the federal funds effective rate. Any amounts drawn pursuant to the 2006 Credit Agreement are due on March 14, 2011. No amounts were
outstanding pursuant to the 2006 Credit Agreement as of May 31, 2010 and 2009 and a total of $3.0 billion remained available.      The 2006
Credit Agreement contains certain customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default, including the requirement that our total net debt to total capitalization ratio not exceed 45%. If any of the events of default occur and
are not cured within applicable grace periods or waived, any unpaid amounts under the 2006 Credit Agreement may be declared immediately due and payable and the 2006 Credit Agreement may be terminated. We were in compliance with the Credit
Agreements  covenants as of May 31, 2010.       

9.   
   RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES          Sun
Restructuring Plan       During the third quarter of fiscal 2010, our management approved, committed to and initiated a plan to restructure our
operations due to our acquisition of Sun (the Sun Restructuring Plan) in order to improve the cost efficiencies in our merged operations. Our management subsequently amended the Sun Restructuring Plan to reflect additional actions that we expect to
take to improve the cost efficiencies in our merged operations. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the Sun Restructuring Plan are $1.1 billion consisting primarily of employee severance expenses, abandoned facilities obligations
and contract termination costs. The restructuring costs will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our consolidated statements of operations as they are recognized. We recorded $342 million of restructuring expenses in connection
with the Sun Restructuring Plan during fiscal 2010 and we expect to incur the majority of the approximately $755 million of remaining expenses pursuant to the Sun Restructuring Plan through the calendar year 2011. Any changes to the estimates of
executing the Sun Restructuring Plan will be reflected in our future results of operations.       Fiscal 2009 Oracle Restructuring Plan  
     During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, our management approved, committed to and initiated plans to restructure and further improve
efficiencies in our operations (the 2009 Plan). Our management subsequently amended the 2009 Plan to reflect additional actions that we implemented over the course of fiscal 2010. The total estimated
        
   112   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
restructuring costs associated with the 2009 Plan are $453 million and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our consolidated statements of operations as they are
recognized. In fiscal 2010, we recorded $286 million of restructuring expenses and in fiscal 2009 we recorded $85 million of restructuring expenses in connection with the 2009 Plan. We expect to incur the remaining $82 million during our fiscal
2011. Any changes to the estimates of executing the 2009 Plan will be reflected in our future results of operations.       Acquisition Related
Restructuring Plans Adopted Prior to Fiscal 2010       Included in the other restructuring plans line in the fiscal 2010 and 2009 activity
tables below and in the total restructuring plans line for the fiscal 2008 activity table below are certain restructuring plans that relate to companies that we acquired prior to our adoption of the revised business combinations accounting guidance
contained in ASC 805 as of the beginning of fiscal 2010. Costs related to these restructuring plans were originally recognized as liabilities assumed in each of the respective business combinations and included in the allocation of the cost to
acquire these companies and, accordingly, have resulted in an increase to goodwill. Our restructuring expenses may change as our management executes the approved plans. Future decreases to the estimates of executing these acquisitions related
restructuring plans will be recorded as an adjustment to goodwill indefinitely. Increases to the estimates of the acquisition related restructuring plans will be recorded to operating expenses.   
   Summary of All Plans         Fiscal 2010
Activity         
       
   113   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
     Fiscal 2009 Activity     

(1)   
    Other includes severance costs related to operating segments that were not individually or collectively significant, facilities related restructuring
expenses and contract termination costs.          

(3)   
      Initial costs recorded for the respective restructuring plans.

(4)   
    All plan adjustments are changes in estimates whereby all increases in costs are generally recorded to operating expenses in the period of adjustment
with decreases in the costs of our Oracle-based plans and the Sun Restructuring Plan being recorded to operating expenses and decreases in costs of our acquisition related plans adopted prior to fiscal 2010 or assumed from Sun recorded as
adjustments to goodwill.          

(5)   
    Represents foreign currency translation, other adjustments and accrued restructuring plan liabilities of $275 million that were assumed from our
acquisition of Sun during fiscal 2010.          

(6)   
      Restructuring plans included in this footnote represent those plans that
management has deemed the most significant.          
    Deferred revenues
consisted of the following:       
    Deferred software license updates and product support revenues and
deferred hardware systems support revenues represent customer payments made in advance for annual support contracts. Software license updates and product   
     
   114   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
support contracts and hardware systems support contracts are typically billed on a per annum basis in advance and revenues are recognized ratably over the support periods. Deferred services
revenues include prepayments for consulting, On Demand and education services. Revenue for these services is recognized as the services are performed. Deferred new software license revenues typically result from undelivered products or specified
enhancements, customer specific acceptance provisions, software license transactions that cannot be segmented from consulting services, amongst other reasons. Deferred hardware systems product revenues typically result from sales to customers,
including channel partners and resellers, where revenue recognition criteria have not been met, transactions involving customer specific acceptance provisions or transactions that cannot be segmented from consulting services.   
  In connection with the purchase price allocations related to our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the support obligations assumed. The
estimated fair values of the support obligations assumed were determined using a cost build-up approach. The cost build-up approach determines fair value by estimating the costs relating to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. The
sum of the costs and operating profit approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to assume the support obligations. These fair value adjustments reduce the revenues recognized over the support contract term of
our acquired contracts.       

11.   
   DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS         We
adopted the disclosure requirements of ASC 815 during fiscal 2009 and have provided these disclosures prospectively from the year of adoption.   
   Interest Rate Swap Agreements    
    Fair Value Hedges        In September
2009, we entered into interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with the 2014 Notes (as defined in Note 8) so that the interest payable on these notes effectively became
variable based on LIBOR. The critical terms of the interest rate swap agreements and the 2014 Notes match, including the notional amounts and maturity dates. Accordingly, we have designated these swap agreements as qualifying hedging instruments and
are accounting for them as fair value hedges pursuant to ASC 815. These transactions are characterized as fair value hedges for financial accounting purposes because they protect us against changes in the fair value of our fixed rate borrowings due
to benchmark interest rate movements. The changes in fair values of these interest rate swap agreements are recognized as interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations with the corresponding amounts included in other assets or other
non-current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. The amount of net gain (loss) attributable to the risk being hedged is recognized as interest expense in our consolidated statement of operations with the corresponding amount included in
notes payable and other non-current borrowings. The periodic interest settlements, which occur at the same interval as the 2014 Notes, are recorded as interest expense.   
  We do not use any interest rate swap agreements for trading purposes.   
    Cash Flow Hedges        In relation to
the variable interest obligations associated with our senior notes that were due and paid in May 2010 and May 2009 (Floating Rate Notes), we entered into certain variable to fixed interest rate swap agreements to manage the economic effects of the
variable interest obligations and designated these agreements as qualifying cash flow hedges. Upon payment of the Floating Rate Notes in May 2010 and May 2009, we also settled the interest rate swap agreements associated with these notes and no
arrangements were outstanding as of May 31, 2010. The unrealized losses on these interest rate swap agreements were included in accumulated other comprehensive income and the corresponding fair value payables were included in other current
liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. The periodic interest settlements, which occurred at the same interval as the Floating Rate Notes were recorded as interest expense.   
     
   115   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
    Net Investment Hedges    
  Periodically, we hedge net assets of certain of our international subsidiaries using foreign currency forward contracts to offset the translation and
economic exposures related to our foreign currency-based investments in these subsidiaries. These contracts have been designated as net investment hedges pursuant to ASC 815. We entered into these net investment hedges for all of fiscal 2009 and the
majority of fiscal 2010. We suspended this program during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and, as of May 31, 2010, we have no contracts outstanding (one contract was outstanding as of May 31, 2009 in Japanese Yen with a nominal fair
value and notional amount of $694 million).      We used the spot method to measure the effectiveness of our net investment hedges. Under this
method for each reporting period, the change in fair value of the forward contracts attributable to the changes in spot exchange rates (the effective portion) was reported in accumulated other comprehensive income on our consolidated balance sheet
and the remaining change in fair value of the forward contract (the ineffective portion, if any) was recognized in non-operating income (expense), net, in our consolidated statement of operations. We recorded settlements under these forward
contracts in a similar manner. The fair values of both the effective and ineffective portions were recorded to our consolidated balance sheet as prepaid expenses and other current assets for amounts receivable from the counterparties or other
current liabilities for amounts payable to the counterparties.       Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Not Designated as Hedges    
  We transact business in various foreign currencies and are subject to risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. We have a
program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset these risks associated with foreign currency exposures. Our program may be suspended from time to time. This program was active for the majority of fiscal 2010 and was
suspended during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. When this program is active, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency
forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transactions. Our foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees and other intercompany transactions that are expected
to be cash settled in the near term. Although we have suspended our historical foreign currency forward contract program as of May 31, 2010, our subsidiaries continue to enter into cross-currency transactions and create cross-currency exposures
via intercompany arrangements and we expect that these transactions and exposures will continue. Our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency transactions that
we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and other factors.  
  Historically, we have neither used these foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes nor have designated these forward contracts as hedging
instruments pursuant to ASC 815. Accordingly, we recorded the fair value of these contracts as of the end of our reporting period to our consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair value recorded in our consolidated statement of operations. The
balance sheet classification for the fair values of these forward contracts was prepaid expenses and other current assets for unrealized gains and other current liabilities for unrealized losses. The statement of operations classification for the
fair values of these forward contracts was non-operating income (expense), net, for both realized and unrealized gains and losses.      As of
May 31, 2010, we had a nominal amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding. As of May 31, 2009, the notional amounts of the forward contracts we held to purchase and sell U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international
currencies were $860 million and $1.1 billion, respectively, and the notional amounts of the foreign currency forward contracts we held to purchase European Euros in exchange for other major international currencies were  142 million ($198
million).         
   116   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   The effects of derivative instruments on our consolidated financial statements were as follows as of or
for each of the respective periods presented below (amounts presented exclude any income tax effects):       Fair Value of Derivative
Instruments in Consolidated Balance Sheets        

May 31, 2010    
     
     May 31, 2009     
 
     (in millions)    
     
     Balance Sheet Location    
     
   Fair Value   
     
     Balance Sheet Location    
     
   Fair Value    
 
    Interest rate swap agreement designated as cash flow hedge   
     
  Not applicable  
     
  $  

Other current liabilities  
     
  $  
  35   

Interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges   
     
  Other assets  
     
  $  
  33  
     
  Not applicable  
     
  $  

Foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedges   
     
    Prepaid expenses and other current assets   
     
  $  

Other current liabilities  
     
  $  

Effects of Derivative Instruments on Income and Other Comprehensive
Income (OCI)        

Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in Accumulated OCI on
Derivative (Effective Portion)   

Location and Amount of Gain (Loss) Reclassified from Accumulated OCI
into Income (Effective Portion)   

Location and Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in Income on
Derivative (Ineffective Portion and Amount Excluded from Effectiveness Testing)    

Year Ended May 31,   

Year Ended May 31,   

Year Ended May 31,    
 
     (in millions)    
      
     2010     

2009     

2010         

2009        

2010         
      
         2009          
 
     Cash flow hedges:    

Interest rate swap   
      
  $  

$  
  3  

Interest       expense   
      
  $  
  (41  
  )   
     
  $  
  (47  
  )   
     
  Non operating       income  
    (expense), net   
      
  $  

$  

Net investment hedges:    

Foreign currency forward contract   
      
  $  
  (37  
  )   
     
  $  
  (63  
  )   
     
  Not       applicable   
      
  $  

$  

Non-operating       income  
    (expense), net   
      
  $  
  1  
      
  $  
  10   

Location and Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in Income 
on Derivative   
        
   Location and Amount of Gain (Loss) on Hedged Item 
Recognized in Income Attributable to Risk Being Hedged   

(in millions)    

Year Ended     May 31,
2010   

Year Ended     May 31,
2010   

Fair value hedges:    

Interest rate swaps   
      
  Interest expense  
      
  $  
        33  
        
  Interest expense  
      
  $  
      (33  
  )    

Location and Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in Income on Derivative    

Year Ended May 31,    
 
     (in millions)    

2010         

2009          
 
     Derivatives not designated as hedges:    

Foreign currency forward contracts   
     
  Non-operating       income  
    (expense), net   
     
  $  
  (35  
  )   
     
  $  
  3   

117   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
    12. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES    
   Lease Commitments       We lease certain
facilities, furniture and equipment under operating leases. As of May 31, 2010, future minimum annual operating lease payments and future minimum payments to be received from non-cancelable subleases were as follows:   
   
    Lease commitments include future minimum rent payments for facilities that we have vacated pursuant to our restructuring and
merger integration activities, as discussed in Note 9. We have approximately $386 million in facility obligations, net of estimated sublease income and other costs, in accrued restructuring for these locations in our consolidated balance sheet at
May 31, 2010.      Rent expense was $318 million, $293 million and $276 million for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, net of sublease
income of approximately $73 million, $69 million and $57 million, respectively. Certain lease agreements contain renewal options providing for an extension of the lease term.   
   Unconditional Purchase Obligations       In
the ordinary course of business, we enter into certain unconditional purchase obligations with our suppliers, which are agreements that are enforceable, legally binding and specify terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased;
fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the payment. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we utilize several external manufacturers to manufacture sub-assemblies for our products and to perform final assembly and
testing of finished products. We also obtain individual components for our products from a variety of individual suppliers based on projected demand information. Such purchase commitments are based on our forecasted component and manufacturing
requirements and typically provide for fulfillment within agreed upon lead-times and/or commercially standard lead-times for the particular part or product and have been included in this amount. Routine arrangements for other materials and goods
that are not related to our external manufacturers and certain other suppliers and that are entered into in the ordinary course of business are not included in the amounts below as they are generally entered into in order to secure pricing or other
negotiated terms and are difficult to quantify in a meaningful way.      As of May 31, 2010, our unconditional purchase obligations
approximate to $684 million for fiscal 2011, $27 million for fiscal 2012, $19 million for fiscal 2013, $6 million for fiscal 2014, $3 million for fiscal 2015 and $3 million thereafter.   
  As described in Note 2, we also have a commitment to acquire certain companies for cash consideration that we expect to pay upon the closing of these
acquisitions. As described in Note 8, we have notes payable and other borrowings outstanding of $14.7 billion that mature at various future dates.         
   118   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
    Guarantees    
  Our software and hardware systems product sales agreements generally include certain provisions for indemnifying customers against liabilities if our
products infringe a third party s intellectual property rights. To date, we have not incurred any material costs as a result of such indemnifications and have not accrued any liabilities related to such obligations in our consolidated financial
statements. Certain of our product sales agreements also include provisions indemnifying customers against liabilities in the event we breach confidentiality or service level requirements. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount
under these indemnification agreements due to our limited and infrequent history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.   
  Our software license and hardware systems products agreements also generally include a warranty that our products will substantially operate as described
in the applicable program documentation for a period of one year after delivery. We also warrant that services we perform will be provided in a manner consistent with industry standards for a period of 90 days from performance of the service.
     We occasionally are required, for various reasons, to enter into financial guarantees with third parties in the ordinary course of
our business including, among others, guarantees related to foreign exchange trades, taxes, import licenses and letters of credit on behalf of parties we conduct business with. Such agreements have not had a material effect on our results
of operations, financial position or cash flows.       13. STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY    
   Stock Repurchases       Our Board of Directors
has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock. On October 20, 2008, we announced that our Board of Directors approved the expansion of our repurchase program by $8.0 billion and as of May 31, 2010, approximately
$5.3 billion was available for share repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program. We repurchased 43.3 million shares for $1.0 billion (including 0.5 million shares for $12 million that were repurchased but not settled),
225.6 million shares for $4.0 billion and 97.3 million shares for $2.0 billion in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively under the applicable repurchase programs authorized.   
  Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working
capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment obligations or repurchase of our debt, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time
through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.   
   Dividends on Common Stock       During fiscal
2010, our Board of Directors declared cash dividends of $0.20 per share of our outstanding common stock, which we paid during the same period.   
  In June 2010, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share of outstanding common stock payable on August 4, 2010 to
stockholders of record as of the close of business on July 14, 2010. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.   
     
   119   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
    Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income    
  The following table summarizes, as of each balance sheet date, the components of our accumulated other comprehensive income, net of income taxes (income
tax effects were insignificant for all periods presented):       
     14. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS    
   Stock-based Compensation Plans    
    Stock Option Plans        In fiscal
2001, we adopted the 2000 Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan (the 2000 Plan), which replaced the 1991 Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan (the 1991 Plan) and provides for the issuance of non-qualified stock options and incentive stock options, as well as
stock purchase rights, stock appreciation rights and long-term performance awards to our eligible employees, officers, and directors who are also employees or consultants, independent consultants and advisers. Under the terms of the 2000 Plan,
options to purchase common stock generally are granted at not less than fair market value, become exercisable as established by the Board (generally 25% annually over four years under our current practice), and generally expire no more than ten
years from the date of grant. Options granted under the 1991 Plan were granted with similar terms. If options outstanding under the 1991 Plan are forfeited, repurchased, or otherwise terminate without the issuance of stock, the shares underlying
such options will also become available for future awards under the 2000 Plan. As of May 31, 2010, options to purchase 301 million shares of common stock were outstanding under both plans, of which 144 million were vested.
Approximately 197 million shares of common stock were available for future awards under the 2000 Plan. To date, we have not issued any stock purchase rights, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock-based awards or long-term performance
awards under the 2000 Plan.      In fiscal 1993, the Board adopted the 1993 Directors  Stock Option Plan (the Directors  Plan), which
provides for the issuance of non-qualified stock options to non-employee directors. The Director s Plan has from time to time been amended and restated. In fiscal 2010, the Director s Plan was further amended to increase the amounts of
annual stock option grants to the Chair of the Compensation Committee of the Board. Under the terms of the Directors  Plan, options to purchase 8 million shares of common stock were reserved for issuance, options are granted at not less
than fair market value, become exercisable over four years, and expire no more than ten years from the date of grant. The Directors  Plan provides for automatic grants of options to each non-employee director upon first becoming a director and
thereafter on an annual basis, as well as automatic nondiscretionary grants for chairing certain Board committees. The Board has the discretion to replace any automatic option grant under the Directors  Plan with awards of restricted stock,
restricted stock units or other stock-based awards. The number of shares subject to any such stock award will be no more than the equivalent value of the options, as determined on any reasonable basis by the Board, which would otherwise have been
granted under the applicable automatic option grant. The Board will determine the particular terms of any such stock awards at the time of grant, but the terms will be consistent with those of options, as described below, granted under the
Directors  Plan with respect to vesting or forfeiture schedules and treatment on termination of status as a director. At May 31, 2010, options to purchase approximately 3 million shares of common stock were outstanding under the 1993
Directors  Plan, of which approximately 2 million were vested. Approximately 2 million shares are available for future option awards under this plan of which a lesser portion than the total may be used for grants other than options.
        
   120   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   In connection with certain of our acquisitions, including Sun, BEA, PeopleSoft, Siebel and Hyperion, we
assumed all of the outstanding stock options and other stock awards of each acquiree s respective stock plans. These stock options and other stock awards generally retain all of the rights, terms and conditions of the respective plans under
which they were originally granted. As of May 31, 2010, options to purchase 48 million shares of common stock and 4 million shares of restricted stock were outstanding under these plans.   
  The following table summarizes stock option activity for our last three fiscal years ended May 31, 2010:   
   
    Options outstanding that have vested and that are expected to vest as of May 31, 2010 are as follows:

(1)   
    The aggregate intrinsic value was calculated based on the gross difference between our closing stock price on the last trading day of fiscal 2010 of
$22.57 and the exercise prices for all in-the-money options outstanding, excluding tax effects.          

(2)   
    The unrecognized compensation expense calculated under the fair value method for shares expected to vest (unvested shares net of expected forfeitures)
as of May 31, 2010 was approximately $709 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.56 years. Approximately 15 million shares outstanding as of May 31, 2010 are not expected to vest.
           
   121   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
    Stock-Based Compensation Expense and Valuation of Stock Options and Restricted Stock-Based Awards
      Stock-based compensation is included in the following operating expense line items in our consolidated statements of operations:
      
    We estimate the fair value of our share-based payments using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model, which was
developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. Option valuation models, including the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model, require the input of assumptions,
including stock price volatility. Changes in the input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimates and ultimately how much we recognize as stock-based compensation expense. The fair values of our stock options were estimated at the
date of grant or date of acquisition for options assumed in a business combination. The weighted average input assumptions used and resulting fair values were as follows for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008:   
   
    The expected life input is based on
historical exercise patterns and post-vesting termination behavior, the risk-free interest rate input is based on United States Treasury instruments and the volatility input is calculated based on the implied volatility of our longest-term, traded
options. Our expected dividend yield was zero prior to our first dividend declaration on March 18, 2009 as we did not historically pay cash dividends on our common stock and did not anticipate doing so for the foreseeable future for grants
issued prior to March 18, 2009. For grants issued subsequent to March 18, 2009, we used an annualized dividend yield based on the per share dividend declared by our Board of Directors.   
   Tax Benefits from Exercise of Stock Options and Vesting of Restricted Stock-Based Awards    
  Total cash received as a result of option exercises was approximately $812 million, $696 million and $1.2 billion for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised and vesting of restricted stock-based awards was $647 million, $807 million and $2.0 billion for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In connection with these exercises and
vesting of restricted stock-based awards, the tax benefits         
   122   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
realized by us were $203 million, $252 million and $588 million for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Of the total tax benefits received, we classified excess tax benefits from
stock-based compensation of $110 million, $194 million and $454 million as cash flows from financing activities rather than cash flows from operating activities for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
    Employee Stock Purchase Plan        We
have an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (Purchase Plan) and have amended the Purchase Plan such that employees can purchase shares of common stock at a price per share that is 95% of the fair market value of Oracle stock as of the end of the
semi-annual option period. As of May 31, 2010, 75 million shares were reserved for future issuances under the Purchase Plan. We issued 3 million shares under the Purchase Plan in each of fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008.   
   Defined Contribution and Other Postretirement Plans    
  We offer various defined contribution plans for our U.S. and non-U.S. employees. Total defined contribution plan expense was $282 million, $258 million
and $234 million for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The number of plan participants in our defined contribution plans has generally increased in recent years primarily as a result of additional eligible employees from our acquisitions.
     In the United States, regular employees can participate in the Oracle Corporation 401(k) Savings and Investment Plan (Oracle 401(k) Plan).
Participants can generally contribute up to 40% of their eligible compensation on a per- pay-period basis as defined by the plan document or by the section 402(g) limit as defined by the United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS). We match a
portion of employee contributions, currently 50% up to 6% of compensation each pay period, subject to maximum aggregate matching amounts. Our contributions to the plan, net of forfeitures, were $90 million, $78 million and $80 million in fiscal
2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.      We also offer non-qualified deferred compensation plans to certain key employees whereby they may defer a
portion of their annual base and/or variable compensation until retirement or a date specified by the employee in accordance with the plans. Deferred compensation plan assets and liabilities were approximately $216 million and $176 million as of
May 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and are presented in other assets and other non-current liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.   
  We sponsor certain defined benefit pension plans that are offered primarily by certain of our foreign subsidiaries. Many of these plans were assumed
through our acquisitions. We deposit funds for these plans with insurance companies, third-party trustees, or into government-managed accounts consistent with local regulatory requirements, as applicable. Our total defined benefit plan pension
expense was $29 million for fiscal 2010 (insignificant for fiscal 2009 and 2008). The aggregate projected benefit obligation and aggregate net funded status (net liability) of our defined benefit plans were $636 million and $196 million as of
May 31, 2010, respectively.       15. INCOME TAXES    
  The following is a geographical breakdown of income before the provision for income taxes:   

123   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   The provision for income taxes consisted of the following:   
   
    The provision for income taxes
differed from the amount computed by applying the federal statutory rate to our income before provision for income taxes as follows:       
       
   124   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   The components of our deferred tax liabilities and assets were as follows:   
   
    We provide for United States income taxes on the undistributed earnings and the other outside basis temporary differences of
foreign subsidiaries unless they are considered indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. At May 31, 2010, the amount of temporary differences related to undistributed earnings and other outside basis temporary differences of
investments in foreign subsidiaries upon which United States income taxes have not been provided was approximately $13.0 billion and $4.7 billion, respectively. If these undistributed earnings were repatriated to the United States, or if the other
outside basis differences were recognized in a taxable transaction, they would generate foreign tax credits that would reduce the federal tax liability associated with the foreign dividend or the otherwise taxable transaction. Assuming a full
utilization of the foreign tax credits, the potential deferred tax liability associated with these temporary differences of undistributed earnings and other outside basis temporary differences would be approximately $3.6 billion and $1.5 billion,
respectively.      Our net deferred tax assets increased from $282 million as of May 31, 2009 to $1.9 billion as of May 31, 2010,
primarily as a result of our acquisition of Sun. We believe it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets will be realized in the foreseeable future. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent upon our generation of
sufficient taxable income in future years in appropriate tax jurisdictions to obtain benefit from the reversal of temporary differences, net operating loss carryforwards, and tax credit carryforwards. The amount of deferred tax assets considered
realizable is subject to adjustment in future periods if estimates of future taxable income change.      The valuation allowance was $649 million
at May 31, 2010 and $137 million at May 31, 2009. The net increase is primarily attributable to deferred taxes of Sun, principally state and foreign attributes. Substantially all of the
        
   125   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
valuation allowance relates to tax assets established in purchase accounting. Any subsequent reduction of that portion of the valuation allowance and the recognition of the associated tax
benefits associated with our acquisitions will be recorded to our provision for income taxes subsequent to our final determination of the valuation allowance or the conclusion of the measurement period (as defined above), whichever comes first.
     At May 31, 2010, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $1.6 billion. These losses expire in various years
between fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2029, and are subject to limitations on their utilization. We had state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $3.8 billion, which expire between fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2029, and are subject to limitations
on their utilization. We had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $1.3 billion, which are subject to limitations on their utilization. Approximately $1.2 billion of these net operating losses are not currently subject to
expiration dates. The remainder, approximately $90 million, expires between fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2030. We had tax credit carryforwards of approximately $1.2 billion, which are subject to limitations on their utilization. Approximately $405
million of these tax credit carryforwards are not currently subject to expiration dates. The remainder, approximately $791 million, expires in various years between fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2029.   
  We classify our unrecognized tax benefits as either current or non-current income taxes payable in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The
aggregate changes in the balance of our gross unrecognized tax benefits, including acquisitions, were as follows:       
    As of May 31, 2010, $1.9 billion of unrecognized benefits would affect our effective tax rate if recognized. We
recognized interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in our provision for income taxes line of our consolidated statements of operations of $3 million during fiscal 2010. The amount of interest and penalties accrued as of
May 31, 2010 was $576 million.      During fiscal 2010, the provision for income taxes was reduced due to recent judicial decisions, including
the March 2010 U.S. Court of Appeals Ninth Circuit ruling in  Xilinx v. Commissioner , and settlements with various worldwide tax authorities.   
  Domestically, U.S. federal and state taxing authorities are currently examining income tax returns of Oracle and various acquired entities for years
through fiscal 2008. Many issues are at an advanced stage in the examination process, the most significant of which include the deductibility of certain royalty payments, issues related to certain capital gains and losses, extraterritorial income
exemptions, domestic production activity deductions, stewardship deductions, stock-based compensation and foreign tax credits taken. Other issues are related to years with expiring statutes of limitation. With all of these domestic audit issues
considered in the aggregate, we believe it was reasonably possible that, as of May 31, 2010, the gross unrecognized tax benefits related to these audits could decrease (whether by payment, release, or a combination of both) in the next 12
months by as much as $399 million ($353 million net of offsetting tax benefits). Our U.S. federal and, with some exceptions, our state income tax returns have been examined for all years prior to fiscal 2000, and we are no longer subject to audit
for those periods.         
   126   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   Internationally, tax authorities for numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions are also examining returns
affecting our unrecognized tax benefits. We believe it was reasonably possible that, as of May 31, 2010, the gross unrecognized tax benefits, could decrease (whether by payment, release, or a combination of both) by as much as $187 million ($53
million net of offsetting tax benefits) in the next 12 months, related primarily to transfer pricing and a technical matter of corporate restructuring, which would be affected by the possible passage of favorable legislation. With some exceptions,
we are generally no longer subject to tax examinations in non-U.S. jurisdictions for years prior to fiscal 1998.      We believe that we have
adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcomes related to our tax audits and that any settlement will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. However, there can be no
assurances as to the possible outcomes.      We previously negotiated three successive unilateral Advance Pricing Agreements with the IRS that
cover many of our intercompany transfer pricing issues and preclude the IRS from making a transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of the agreements. These agreements are effective for fiscal years through May 31, 2006. We have submitted to
the IRS a request for another renewal of this Advance Pricing Agreement for the years ending May 31, 2007 through May 31, 2011. However, these agreements do not cover all elements of our transfer pricing and do not bind tax authorities
outside the United States. We have finalized two bilateral Advance Pricing Agreements, one of which was effective for the years ending May 31, 2002 through May 31, 2006 and we have submitted a request for a renewal of this agreement for
the years ending May 31, 2007 through May 31, 2011. There can be no guarantee that such negotiations will result in an agreement. The additional bilateral agreement covers the period from June 1, 2001 through January 25, 2008.

16.   
   SEGMENT INFORMATION         ASC 280,  Segment
Reporting , establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief
operating decision maker, or decision making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. Our chief operating decision maker is our Chief Executive Officer. We are organized geographically and by line of business. While
our Chief Executive Officer evaluates results in a number of different ways, the line of business management structure is the primary basis for which the allocation of resources and financial results are assessed. As a result of our acquisition of
Sun, we entered into a new hardware systems business with two operating segments as described further below. We have three businesses software, hardware systems and services which are further divided into seven operating segments. Our
software business is comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software licenses and (2) software license updates and product support. Our hardware systems business is comprised of two operating segments: (1) hardware systems
products and (2) hardware systems support. Our services business is comprised of three operating segments: (1) consulting, (2) On Demand and (3) education.   
  The new software licenses line of business is engaged in the licensing of database and middleware software as well as our applications software. Database
and middleware software includes database management software, application server software, business intelligence software, identification and access management software, content management software, portal and user interaction software,
Service-Oriented Architecture and business process management software, data integration software and development tools. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we acquired certain software technologies that expanded and enhanced our existing
database and middleware software product offerings, including Java, which is a global software development platform used in a wide range of computers, networks and devices. Applications software provides enterprise information that enables companies
to manage their business cycles and provide intelligence in functional areas such as customer relationship management, financials, human resources, maintenance management, manufacturing, marketing, order fulfillment, product lifecycle management,
enterprise project portfolio management, enterprise performance management, procurement, sales, services, enterprise resource planning and supply chain planning.   
     
   127   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
The software license updates and product support line of business provides customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases, internet access to technical
content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel during the support period.      The hardware systems products line
of business consists primarily of computer server and storage product offerings. Most of our computer servers are based on our SPARC family of microprocessors and on Intel Xeon microprocessors. Our servers range from high performance computing
servers to cost efficient, entry-level servers, and run with our Solaris Operating System, Linux and certain other operating systems environments. Our storage products are designed to securely manage, protect, archive and restore customers 
data assets and consist of tape, disk and networking solutions for open systems and mainframe server environments. Customers that purchase our hardware systems products may also elect to purchase our hardware systems support offerings. Our hardware
systems support offerings provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware systems and storage products and can include product repairs, maintenance services, and technical
support services.      The consulting line of business primarily provides services to customers in business strategy and analysis, business process
simplification, solutions integration and the implementation, enhancement and upgrade of our database, middleware and applications software. On Demand includes Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer Services. Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured
software and hardware management and maintenance services for customers that are delivered at our data center facilities, select partner data centers or customer facilities. Advanced Customer Services consists of solution lifecycle management
services, industry-specific solution support centers, hardware systems expert services, packaged offerings that support the installation and optimization of our hardware products and remote and on-site expert services. The education line of business
provides instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our software and hardware products.      We do not track our assets
by operating segments. Consequently, it is not practical to show assets by operating segments results.         
   128   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   The following table presents a summary of our businesses  and operating segments  results:

129   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          

(1)   
    Operating segment revenues differ from the external reporting classifications due to certain software license products that are classified as service
revenues for management reporting purposes. Software license updates and product support revenues for management reporting included $86 million, $243 million and $179 million of revenues that we did not recognize in the accompanying consolidated
statements of operations in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, we did not recognize hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by Sun as an independent
entity, in the amount of $128 million in fiscal 2010. See Note 10 for an explanation of these adjustments and the following table for a reconciliation of operating segment revenues to total revenues.      

(2)   
    The margins reported reflect only the direct controllable costs of each line of business and do not include allocations of product development,
information technology, marketing and partner programs, and corporate and general and administrative expenses incurred in support of the lines of business. Additionally, the margins do not reflect the amortization of intangible assets, acquisition
related and other expenses, restructuring costs, or stock-based compensation.         The following table reconciles operating
segment revenues to total revenues as well as operating segment margin to income before provision for income taxes:       

(1)  
  Software license updates and product support revenues for management reporting include $86 million, $243 million and $179 million of revenues that we did not recognize
in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, we did not recognize hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts that would have
otherwise been recorded by Sun as an independent entity, in the amount of $128 million for fiscal 2010. See Note 10 for an explanation of these adjustments and this table for a reconciliation of operating segment revenues to total revenues.

(2)  
  Represents the effects of fair value adjustments to our inventories acquired from Sun that were sold to customers in the periods presented. Business combination
accounting rules require us to account for inventories assumed from our acquisitions at their fair values. The amount included in hardware systems products expenses above is intended to adjust these expenses to the hardware systems products expenses
that would have been otherwise recorded by Sun as a standalone entity upon the sale of these inventories. If we assume inventories in future acquisitions, we will be required to assess their fair values, which may result in fair value adjustments to
those inventories.           
   130   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
    Geographic Information    
  Disclosed in the table below is geographic information for each country that comprised greater than three percent of our total revenues for fiscal 2010,
2009 or 2008.       

(1)   
    Long-lived assets exclude goodwill, intangible assets, equity investments and deferred taxes, which are not allocated to specific geographic locations
as it is impracticable to do so.          
    Basic earnings per
share is computed by dividing net income for the period by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income for the period by the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding during the period, plus the dilutive effect of outstanding stock options and restricted stock-based awards and shares issuable under the employee stock purchase plan using the treasury stock method. The following table sets
forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share:       

(1)   
    These weighted shares relate to anti-dilutive stock options and restricted stock-based awards as calculated using the treasury stock method (described
above) and could be dilutive in the future. See Note 14 for information regarding the exercise prices of our outstanding, unexercised options.          
     Securities Class
Action       Stockholder class actions were filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against us and our
Chief Executive Officer on and after March 9, 2001. Between March 2002 and March 2003,         
   131   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
the court dismissed plaintiffs  consolidated complaint, first amended complaint and a revised second amended complaint. The last dismissal was with prejudice. On September 1, 2004, the
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the dismissal order and remanded the case for further proceedings. The revised second amended complaint named our Chief Executive Officer, our then Chief Financial Officer (who currently
is Chairman of our Board of Directors) and a former Executive Vice President as defendants. This complaint was brought on behalf of purchasers of our stock during the period from December 14, 2000 through March 1, 2001. Plaintiffs alleged
that the defendants made false and misleading statements about our actual and expected financial performance and the performance of certain of our applications products, while certain individual defendants were selling Oracle stock in violation of
federal securities laws. Plaintiffs further alleged that certain individual defendants sold Oracle stock while in possession of material non-public information. Plaintiffs also allege that the defendants engaged in accounting violations. On
July 26, 2007, defendants filed a motion for summary judgment, and plaintiffs filed a motion for partial summary judgment against all defendants and a motion for summary judgment against our Chief Executive Officer. On August 7, 2007,
plaintiffs filed amended versions of these motions. On October 5, 2007, plaintiffs filed a motion seeking a default judgment against defendants or various other sanctions because of defendants  alleged destruction of evidence. A hearing on
all these motions was held on December 20, 2007. On April 7, 2008, the case was reassigned to a new judge. On June 27, 2008, the court ordered supplemental briefing on plaintiffs  sanctions motion. On September 2, 2008, the
court issued an order denying plaintiffs  motion for partial summary judgment against all defendants. The order also denied in part and granted in part plaintiffs  motion for sanctions. The court denied plaintiffs  request that
judgment be entered in plaintiffs  favor due to the alleged destruction of evidence, and the court found that no sanctions were appropriate for several categories of evidence. The court found that sanctions in the form of adverse inferences
were appropriate for two categories of evidence: e-mails from our Chief Executive Officer s account, and materials that had been created in connection with a book regarding our Chief Executive Officer. The court then denied defendants 
motion for summary judgment and plaintiffs  motion for summary judgment against our Chief Executive Officer and directed the parties to revise and re-file these motions to clearly specify the precise contours of the adverse inferences that
should be drawn, and to take these inferences into account with regard to the propriety of summary judgment. The court also directed the parties to address certain legal issues in the briefing.   
  On October 13, 2008, the parties participated in a court-ordered mediation, which did not result in a settlement. On October 20, 2008,
defendants filed a motion for summary judgment, and plaintiffs filed a motion for summary judgment against our Chief Executive Officer. The parties also filed several motions challenging the admissibility of the testimony of various expert
witnesses. Opposition briefs were filed on November 17, 2008, and reply briefs were filed on December 12, 2008. A hearing on all these motions was held on February 13, 2009.   
  On June 16, 2009, the court issued an order granting defendants  motion for summary judgment and denying plaintiffs  motion for summary
judgment against our Chief Executive Officer, and it entered a judgment dismissing the entire case with prejudice. On July 14, 2009, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal. Plaintiffs filed their opening appellate brief on November 30, 2009.
Defendants filed their opposition brief on February 4, 2010, and plaintiffs filed their reply on March 15, 2010. The court has scheduled oral argument on this appeal for July 13, 2010. Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages plus
interest, attorneys  fees and costs, and equitable and injunctive relief. We believe that we have meritorious defenses against this action, and we will continue to vigorously defend it.   
   EpicRealm/Parallel Networks Intellectual Property Litigation    
  On June 30, 2006, we filed a declaratory judgment action against EpicRealm Licensing, LP ( EpicRealm ) in the United States District Court,
District of Delaware, seeking a judicial declaration of noninfringement and invalidity of U.S. Patent Nos. 5,894,554 (the  554 Patent) and 6,415,335B1 (the  335 Patent). We filed the
        
   132   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
lawsuit following the resolution of an indemnification claim by one of our customers related to EpicRealm s assertion of the  554 Patent and  335 Patent against the customer in a
patent infringement case in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.      On April 13, 2007, EpicRealm filed an
Answer and Counterclaim in which it: (1) denies our noninfringement and invalidity allegations; (2) alleges that we have willfully infringed, and are willfully infringing, the  554 Patent and  335 Patent; and (3) requests a
permanent injunction, an award of unspecified money damages, interest, attorneys  fees, and costs. On May 7, 2007, we filed an Answer to EpicRealm s infringement counterclaim, denying EpicRealm s infringement allegations and
asserting affirmative defenses. In August 2007, the patents-in-suit were sold to Parallel Networks, LLC, which thereafter substituted in as the defendant in place of EpicRealm.   
  The parties have completed discovery and filed briefing on claim construction and summary judgment motions. A Markman hearing and oral argument on summary
judgment motions were held October 3, 2008. A court-ordered mediation was held on October 8, 2008, which did not result in a settlement. On December 4, 2008, the court issued an order granting summary judgment that our Web Cache,
Internet Application Server, and RAC Database do not infringe the patents. The court also denied our motion for summary judgment that the patents are invalid, and denied in part and granted in part Parallel Networks s motion for summary
judgment that certain prior art references do not invalidate the patents through anticipation. Trial was scheduled to begin on January 12, 2009, on issues of invalidity and inequitable conduct. On December 23, 2008, the parties reached an
agreement allowing Parallel Networks to immediately appeal the court s summary judgment order and preserving Oracle s invalidity and inequitable conduct claims in the event that the matter is remanded for trial at a later time. On
January 23, 2009, Parallel Networks filed a notice of appeal. A court-ordered mediation was held on June 1, 2009, which did not result in a settlement. The appellate court heard oral argument on December 10, 2009 after full briefing.
On April 28, 2010, the Federal Circuit issued a decision vacating the district court s grant of summary judgment of noninfringement in Oracle s favor and remanding the case to the district court for further proceedings. On
May 28, 2010, Oracle filed a Petition for Rehearing with the Federal Circuit which was denied on June 11, 2010. We believe that we have meritorious defenses against this action, and we will continue to vigorously defend it.   
   SAP Intellectual Property Litigation       On
March 22, 2007, Oracle Corporation, Oracle USA, Inc. and Oracle International Corporation (collectively, Oracle) filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against SAP AG, its wholly owned
subsidiary, SAP America, Inc., and its wholly owned subsidiary, TomorrowNow, Inc., (collectively, the SAP Defendants) alleging violations of the Federal Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and the California Computer Data Access and Fraud Act, civil
conspiracy, trespass, conversion, violation of the California Unfair Business Practices Act, and intentional and negligent interference with prospective economic advantage. Oracle alleged that SAP unlawfully accessed Oracle s Customer
Connection support website and improperly took and used Oracle s intellectual property, including software code and knowledge management solutions. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and preliminary and permanent injunctive relief. On
June 1, 2007, Oracle filed its First Amended Complaint, adding claims for infringement of the federal Copyright Act and breach of contract, and dropping the conversion and separately pled conspiracy claims. On July 2, 2007 the SAP
Defendants  filed their Answer and Affirmative Defenses, acknowledging that TomorrowNow had made some  inappropriate downloads  and otherwise denying the claims alleged in the First Amended Complaint. The parties are engaged in
discovery and continue to negotiate a Preservation Order. At case management conferences held on February 12, 2008 and April 24, 2008, Oracle advised the Court that Oracle intended to file a Second Amended Complaint, based on new facts
learned during the course of discovery.      On July 28, 2008, Oracle filed a Second Amended Complaint, which added additional allegations
based on facts learned during discovery. Among the new allegations contained in the Second Amended Complaint, Oracle   
     
   133   

Table of Contents  

ORACLE CORPORATION    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   May 31, 2010          
   
alleges that TomorrowNow s business model relied on illegal copies of Oracle s underlying software applications and that TomorrowNow used these copies as generic software environments
that TomorrowNow then used to create fixes and updates, to service customers and to train employees. The Second Amended Complaint also alleges that these practices may have extended to other Oracle products, including Siebel products.   
  On October 8, 2008, Oracle filed a Third Amended Complaint pursuant to stipulation. The Third Amended Complaint made some changes relating to the
Oracle plaintiff entities (removing Oracle Corporation and adding Oracle Systems Corporation, Oracle EMEA Ltd., and J.D. Edwards Europe Ltd.) but did not change the substantive allegations. On October 15, 2008, the SAP Defendants filed a motion
to dismiss portions of the Third Amended Complaint, and after full briefing, the court heard oral argument on November 26, 2008. On December 15, 2008, the court issued an order granting in part and denying in part the motion. The court
dismissed with prejudice the claims asserted by plaintiffs JD Edwards Europe Ltd. and Oracle Systems Corporation, and denied the motion in all other respects. The parties are in the process of concluding discovery.   
  On July 15, 2009, Oracle filed a motion for leave to file a Fourth Amended Complaint to add claims for infringement of Oracle s Siebel software
and database programs. The Court granted Oracle s motion and Oracle filed its Fourth Amended Complaint on August 18, 2009. The SAP Defendants filed an Answer to Oracle s Fourth Amended Complaint on August 26, 2009.   
  On August 26, 2009, the SAP Defendants filed an early motion for summary judgment directed to Oracle s damages theory. After full briefing, the
motion was heard on October 28, 2009. By order dated January 28, 2010, SAP s motion for partial summary judgment was denied.      On
March 3, 2010, the SAP Defendants and Oracle each filed motions for partial summary judgment. Opposition briefs were filed on March 31, 2010, and reply briefs were filed April 14, 2010. The Court heard oral argument on the motions for
partial summary judgment on May 5, 2010, but has not yet ruled on the motions.      Trial is scheduled to begin on November 1, 2010.
      Other Litigation       We are
party to various other legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted, which arise in the ordinary course of business, including proceedings and claims that relate to acquisitions we have completed or to companies we have acquired or
are attempting to acquire. While the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe that the outcome of any of these claims or any of the above mentioned legal matters will have a materially adverse effect on our
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.         
   134   

Table of Contents  

      SCHEDULE II    
   ORACLE CORPORATION    
   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        
       
   135   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

ORACLE CORPORATION    

Date: June 30, 2010  

By:  
     
    /s/    L AWRENCE  J.
E LLISON             

Lawrence J. Ellison   

Chief Executive Officer and Director       Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.   

Name    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/ S /    L AWRENCE  J. E LLISON 
             Lawrence J. Ellison   
      
    Chief Executive Officer and Director  
  (Principal Executive Officer)   
     
  June 30, 2010   

/ S /    J EFF 
E PSTEIN              Jeff Epstein   
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
  (Principal Financial Officer)   
     
  June 30, 2010   

/ S /    W ILLIAM  C OREY 
W EST              William Corey West   
      
    Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer  
  (Principal Accounting Officer)   
     
  June 30, 2010   

/ S /    J EFFREY  O.
H ENLEY              Jeffrey O.
Henley   
      
  Chairman of the Board of Directors  
     
  June 30, 2010   

/ S /    J EFFREY  S.
B ERG              Jeffrey S. Berg   
      
  Director  
     
  June 30, 2010   

/ S /    H. R AYMOND 
B INGHAM              H. Raymond
Bingham   
      
  Director  
     
  June 30, 2010   

/ S /    M ICHAEL  J.
B OSKIN              Michael J.
Boskin   
      
  Director  
     
  June 30, 2010   

/ S /    S AFRA  A.
C ATZ              Safra A. Catz   
      
  President and Director  
     
  June 30, 2010   

/ S /    B RUCE  R.
C HIZEN              Bruce R. Chizen   
      
  Director  
     
  June 30, 2010   

/ S /    G EORGE  H.
C ONRADES              George H.
Conrades   
      
  Director  
     
  June 30, 2010   

/ S /    H ECTOR 
G ARCIA -M OLINA              Hector
Garcia-Molina   
      
  Director  
     
  June 30, 2010   

/ S /    D ONALD  L.
L UCAS              Donald L. Lucas   
      
  Director  
     
  June 30, 2010   

/ S /    C HARLES  E. P HILLIPS ,
J R .             Charles E. Phillips,
Jr.   
      
  President and Director  
     
  June 30, 2010   

/ S /    N AOMI  O.
S ELIGMAN              Naomi O.
Seligman   
      
  Director  
     
  June 30, 2010          
   136   

Table of Contents  

    ORACLE CORPORATION    
   INDEX OF EXHIBITS        
       
   137   

Table of Contents  

138   

Table of Contents  

139   

Table of Contents  

*  
  Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.     
     
   140   

<EX-10.02>
 2
 dex1002.htm
 ORACLE CORPORATION EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

Oracle Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan 

Exhibit 10.02    
   AMENDED AND RESTATED    
   ORACLE CORPORATION    
   EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN (1992)    
   (as amended and restated on October 1, 2009)    
  The following constitute the provisions of the Amended and Restated Oracle Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan (1992), which was originally adopted
on August 24, 1992, and was amended and restated on March 22, 2002, February 8, 2005 and October 1, 2009. This version of the Plan is effective on and after October 1, 2009. For Offering Periods under the Plan ending on
or before September 30, 2009, refer to the version of the Plan as in effect for the applicable Offering Period.       1. PURPOSE
      This Plan is established to provide employees of the Company with an opportunity to purchase Common Stock through
accumulated payroll deductions. It is the intention of Oracle that the Plan qualify as an  Employee Stock Purchase Plan  under Section 423 of the Code. The provisions of the Plan shall, accordingly, be construed so as to extend and
limit participation in a manner consistent with the requirements of that section of the Code. In addition, this Plan document authorizes the grant of options under a non-423 plan which do not qualify under Section 423 of the Code pursuant to
rules, procedures or sub-plans adopted by the Company designed to achieve desired tax or other objectives in particular locations outside the United States. The term  Plan  used herein applies to both the Section 423 plan and the
non-423 plan.       2. DEFINITIONS        

(a)  
    Affiliate   means (i) any Subsidiary and (ii) any other entity in which the Company has an equity interest.     

(b)  
    Board   means the Board of Directors of Oracle or committees appointed by such Board.     

(c)  
    Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.     

(d)  
    Common Stock   means the Common Stock, $0.01 par value, of Oracle.     

(e)  
    Company   means, together, Oracle, Participating Subsidiaries and Participating Affiliates.     

(f)  
    Compensation   means all base salary, wages, commissions, overtime, shift premiums and bonuses, plus draws against commissions.
          
   1   

(g)  
    Employee   means any person, including an officer, who is customarily employed for more than twenty (20) hours per week and more than five
(5) months in a calendar year by the Company. In the case of individuals who perform services for the Company in jurisdictions in which local law prohibits the Company from discriminating in its granting of benefits on the basis of number of
hours worked, the determination of who is an employee shall be made without regard to the number of hours worked.         

(h)  
    Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.     

(i)  
    Exercise Date   means the last day of each Offering Period of the Plan.     

(j)  
    New Exercise Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 18 hereof.     

(m)  
    Offering Date   means the first day of each Offering Period of the Plan.     

(n)  
    Offering Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4 hereof.     

(o)  
    Oracle   means Oracle Corporation, a Delaware corporation.     

(p)  
    Participating Affiliate   means any Affiliate designated from time to time by the Board whose employees are eligible to participate in the Plan for
purposes of the grant of options that do not qualify under Section 423 of the Code pursuant to rules, procedures or sub-plans adopted by the Board designed to achieve desired tax or other objectives in particular locations outside the United
States.         

(q)  
    Participating Subsidiaries   means any Subsidiary which has not been excluded by the Board in its sole discretion as eligible to participate in the
Plan.         

(r)  
    Plan   means this Employee Stock Purchase Plan.         

(s)  
    Reserves   has the meaning set forth in Section 18 hereof.     

(t)  
    Rule 16b-3   means Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, or any successor provision.     

(u)  
    Section 16(b)   means Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, or any successor provision.     

(v)  
    Subsidiary   means any corporation (other than Oracle) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with Oracle if, at the time of granting options
under the Plan, each of the corporations (other than the last corporation) in the unbroken chain owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
          
   2   

3. ELIGIBILITY    
  (a) Any Employee who shall be employed by the Company on the date his or her participation in the Plan is effective shall be eligible to
participate in the Plan, subject to limitations imposed by Section 423(b) of the Code, without regard to paragraph (4) of that section.   
  (b) Unless expressly excluded from participation in the Plan by the Board, any eligible employee of any Participating Subsidiary is
eligible to participate in the Plan. Any eligible employee of any Participating Affiliate so designated by the Board is also eligible to participate in the Plan. Any such exclusions or designations by the Board will comply with Section 16.
     (c) Any provisions of the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, no Employee shall be granted an option under the Plan
(i) if, immediately after the grant, such Employee (or any other person whose stock would be attributed to such Employee pursuant to Section 424(d) of the Code) would own stock and/or hold outstanding options to purchase stock possessing
five percent (5%) or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of stock of Oracle or of any Subsidiary of Oracle, or (ii) which permits his or her rights to purchase stock under all employee stock purchase plans of
Oracle and its Subsidiaries to accrue at a rate which exceeds Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) of fair market value of such stock (determined at the time such option is granted) for each calendar year in which such option is outstanding at any
time. The determination of the accrual of the right to purchase stock shall be made in accordance with Section 423(b)(8) of the Code and the regulations thereunder.   
   4. OFFERING PERIODS       The
Plan shall be implemented by two offerings during each year of the Plan, commencing on or about October 1 and April 1 of each year, or as otherwise determined by the Board, and continuing thereafter for a period of six (6) months
(each, an  Offering Period ). The first Offering Period under the Plan shall commence on October 1, 1992. The Board shall have the power to change the duration of Offering Periods (both before and after any such Offering Period has
commenced) with respect to future offerings without stockholder approval. In no event, however, will any such Offering Period be longer than twenty-seven (27) months.   
   5. PARTICIPATION       (a) An
eligible Employee may become a participant in the Plan by completing a subscription agreement authorizing payroll deductions on the form provided by the Company (or by following an electronic or other enrollment process as prescribed by the
        
   3   

Board) and filing it no later than the first day of an applicable Offering Period (or such earlier time as may be set by the Company s employee stock services department for administrative
purposes) with (i) the Company s employee stock services department for eligible Employees employed by Oracle or (ii) the officer of the applicable Participating Subsidiary or Participating Affiliate responsible for administering the
Plan on Oracle s behalf for eligible Employees employed by any such Participating Subsidiary or Participating Affiliate. Subscription agreements filed by the participants under the 1987 Plan may be used to satisfy the subscription agreement
requirements of the Plan. Once an Employee becomes a participant in the Plan, such Employee will automatically participate in successive Offering Periods until such time as such Employee withdraws from the Plan, and is not required to file any
additional subscription amendments for subsequent Offering Periods to continue participation in the Plan.      (b) Payroll
deductions for a participant shall commence on the first payday following the Offering Date and shall end on the last payday before the Exercise Date of the Offering Period to which such authorization is applicable, unless sooner terminated by the
participant as provided in Section 10 or unless payroll deductions are determined by the Board to not be feasible in countries outside the United States.   
   6. PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS    
  (a) At the time a participant files his or her subscription agreement, he or she shall elect to have payroll deductions made on each
payday during the Offering Period in an amount not less than one percent (1%) and not exceeding any whole number percentage up to ten percent (10%) (or such greater percentage, as specified by the Board) of the Compensation which he or she
receives on each payday during the Offering Period. If the Board determines that payroll deductions are not feasible in a particular country outside the United States, the Board may permit an eligible Employee to participate in the Plan by an
alternative means, such as by check; however, the percentage of Compensation available for contributions must comply with the first sentence of this Section 6(a).   
  (b) No interest shall be paid or credited to the participant with respect to such payroll deductions except where required by local law
as determined by the Board.      (c) All payroll deductions made by a participant shall be credited to his or her account under
the Plan. A participant may not make any additional payments into such account, except as authorized by the Board in countries where payroll deductions are determined by the Board to not be feasible.   
  (d) Unless otherwise specified by the Board, payroll deductions made with respect to Employees paid in currencies other than U.S. dollars
shall be accumulated in local (non-U.S.) currency and converted to U.S. dollars as of the Exercise Date.         
   4   

(e) A participant may discontinue his or her participation in the Plan as provided in
Section 10, or may increase or decrease the rate of his or her payroll deductions during the Offering Period by completing and filing with the Company a new authorization for payroll deduction; provided that the Board may limit the number of
times during any Offering Period that a participant may so increase or decrease such participant s deductions. The change in rate shall be effective on the later of (i) fifteen (15) days after the Company s receipt of the new
authorization, or (ii) the first payday after the Company s receipt of the new authorization.      (f) Notwithstanding
the foregoing, an Employee s payroll deductions (and/or direct contributions, if applicable) shall be decreased down to 0% during any Offering Period to the extent necessary to comply with Section 423(b)(8) of the Code. Any other provision
of the Plan notwithstanding, no participant shall purchase shares of Common Stock under this Plan and all other employee stock purchase plans of the Company or any parent or Subsidiary of the Company with an aggregate fair market value (measured as
of the applicable Offering Date) in excess of $25,000, as determined in accordance with Section 423(b)(8) of the Code and the regulations thereunder.   
  (g) The limitation set forth in Section 6(f) may be adjusted by the Board in its discretion to the extent necessary to comply with
Section 423 of the Code.      (h) In the event payroll deductions are decreased pursuant to Section 6(f) hereof, payroll
deductions shall recommence at the rate provided in such participant s subscription agreement at the beginning of the first Offering Period which is scheduled to end in the following calendar year, unless terminated by the participant as
provided in Section 10. At any time, the Company may withhold from the participant s Compensation the amount necessary for the Company to meet applicable withholding obligations, including any withholding required to make available to the
Company any tax deductions or benefit attributable to sale or early disposition of Common Stock by the Employee.       7. GRANT OF OPTION  
     (a) On the Offering Date of each Offering Period, each eligible Employee participating in the Plan shall be granted an option
to purchase (at the per share option price) up to a number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing such Employee s payroll deductions or contributions to be accumulated during such Offering Period by ninety-five percent (95%) of
the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the Exercise Date, provided that the number of shares subject to the option will be limited to 200% of the number of shares determined by dividing the amount accumulated in the employees 
payroll deductions/contribution account by 95% of the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the Offering Date, subject to the limitations set forth in Sections 3(b) and 11 hereof. The fair market value of a share of Common Stock shall be
determined as provided in Section 7(b) hereof.      (b) The option price per share of the shares offered in a given Offering
Period shall be 95% of the fair market value of a share of the Common Stock on the Exercise Date. The fair market value of Common Stock on a given date shall be the closing price from the previous day s trading on the Nasdaq National Market.
        
   5   

8. EXERCISE OPTION    
  Unless a participant withdraws from the Plan as provided in Section 10, his or her option for the purchase of shares will be
exercised automatically on the Exercise Date of the Offering Period and the maximum number of full shares subject to option will be purchased for him or her at the applicable option price with the accumulated payroll deductions or contributions in
his or her account. During his or her lifetime, a participant s option to purchase shares hereunder is exercisable only by him or her.   
   9. DELIVERY       (a) As
promptly as practicable after the Exercise Date of each Offering Period, the Company shall arrange for the electronic delivery to each participant, as appropriate, of the shares purchased upon exercise of his or her option. Any cash remaining to the
credit of a participant s account under the Plan after a purchase by him or her of shares at the termination of each Offering Period under the Plan which is insufficient to purchase a full share of Common Stock, will be refunded, without
interest, to him or her as soon as practicable. The Board also may return cash remaining in each participant s payroll deduction or contribution account if a purchase of shares will not occur because the Board determines such purchase is not
feasible or that the conditions for the issuance of shares have not been met.      (b) In the event that insufficient shares of
Common Stock are available under the Plan for delivery to all participants in an Offering Period for shares of Common Stock representing a full allocation of all payroll deductions or contributions for such Offering Period, the Board, in its
discretion, may authorize either (i) the delivery of shares of Common Stock representing a pro rata allocation of the shares remaining available for distribution and the return of cash remaining in each participant s payroll deduction
account in accordance with Section 9(c), or (ii) an increase in the number of shares that may be issued under the Plan subject to stockholder approval, and, in such event, the option price applicable to such shares shall be for purposes of
Section 7(b) the option price for such Offering Period, and the Company shall deliver to participants such shares as set forth in Sections 7, 8, and 9, after approval of the stockholders of Oracle has been obtained in
accordance with Section 21. If the stockholders of Oracle vote against any such proposed increase, Oracle shall make a pro rata allocation of the shares available for distribution and return cash remaining in each participant s payroll
deduction or contribution account, without interest unless required by local law as determined by the Board.      (c) In the event
of a pro rata allocation of shares in accordance with Section 9(b), the Company shall give written notice of such reduction of the number of shares subject to the option to each Employee affected thereby and, at the discretion of the Board,
shall terminate or reduce payroll deductions before the Exercise Date if the Board has         
   6   

determined that insufficient shares are available for a full allocation. Any cash remaining in a participant s payroll deduction/contribution account due to an insufficient number of shares
remaining in the Plan for distribution to all participating Employees shall be returned to him or her as soon as administratively feasible.   
   10. WITHDRAWAL: TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT    
  (a) A participant may withdraw all but not less than all the payroll deductions credited to his or her account under the Plan at any time
prior to the Exercise Date of the Offering Period by returning to the Company an enrollment form indicating such withdrawal prior to the fifteenth (15th) day of the last month of the Offering Period. If such form is received by the Company
before such date, all of the participant s payroll deductions credited to his or her account will be refunded, without interest (except where required by local law as determined by the Board), to him or her as soon as practicable, his or her
option for the then current Offering Period will be automatically terminated, and no further payroll deductions for the purchase of shares will be made during the Offering Period. If such form is received by the Company after such date, the
participant s payroll deductions credited to his or her account will be used to purchase stock on the next Exercise Date and his or her participation will end at the beginning of the next Offering Period.   
  (b) In the event that a participant s employment terminates for any reason (including death, disability, or retirement), or if a
participant becomes ineligible to participate in the Plan, in either case, on or prior to the fifteenth (15th) day of the last month of an Offering Period, the payroll deductions credited to his or her account will be returned promptly and
without interest (except where required by local law as determined by the Board) to him or her or, in the case of his or her death, to the executor or administrator of the estate of the participant, and his or her option will be automatically
terminated. In the event that a participant s employment terminates for any reason or a participant becomes ineligible to participate in the Plan after such date, the participant s payroll deductions credited to his or her account will be
used to purchase stock on the Exercise Date for that Offering Period and his or her participation will end at the beginning of the next Offering Period.   
  (c) In the event an Employee fails to remain an Employee during the entire Offering Period, other than as set forth in Section 10(d)
below, he or she will be deemed to have elected to withdraw from the Plan and the payroll deductions credited to his or her account will be returned to him or her promptly and without interest (except where required by local law as determined by the
Board) and his or her option will be automatically terminated.      (d) In the event that an Employee takes an unpaid leave of
absence, his or her payroll deductions shall automatically cease (and no additional contributions to the Plan may be made unless participation is required by local law while on unpaid leave); any amounts remaining in his or her payroll deduction
account shall be used to purchase stock on the next Exercise Date. Paid leaves of absence shall have no effect an Employee s participation in the Plan.         
   7   

(e) A participant s withdrawal from an Offering Period will not have any effect upon
his or her eligibility to participate in a succeeding Offering Period, or in any similar plan period, which may hereafter be adopted by the Company.   
  (f) The Board may specify a date prior to each Exercise Date, which date will be no more than thirty (30) days prior to such
Exercise Date, after which a participant may not withdraw for any reason.       11. STOCK    
  (a) The maximum number of shares of Common Stock which shall be made available for sale under the Plan shall be 405,000,000 shares (plus
any shares available under the 1987 Plan as of September 30, 1992) subject to adjustment upon changes in capitalization of Oracle as provided in Section 18.   
  (b) The participant will have no interest or voting right in shares covered by his or her option until such option has been exercised.
     (c) Shares to be delivered to a participant under the Plan will be registered in the name of the participant.   
   12. ADMINISTRATION       (a)
The Plan shall be administered by the Board or a committee appointed by the Board. The Board or its committee shall have full and exclusive discretionary authority to construe, interpret and apply the terms of the Plan, to determine eligibility and
to adjudicate all disputed claims filed under the Plan. The Board s discretionary authority under the Plan shall include, without limitation, the authority to (i) change the Offering Periods, (ii) limit the frequency and/or number of
changes in the amount withheld during Offering Periods, (iii) establish the exchange ratio applicable to amounts withheld in a currency other than United States dollars, (iv) permit payroll withholding in excess of the amount designated by
a participant in order to adjust for delays or mistakes in the Company s processing of properly completed withholding elections, (v) establish reasonable waiting and adjustment periods and/or accounting and crediting procedures to ensure
that amounts applied toward the purchase of Common Stock for each participant properly correspond with amounts withheld from the participant s Compensation, and (vi) establish such other limitations or procedures as the Board determines in
its sole discretion advisable. Every finding, decision and determination made by the Board shall, to the full extent permitted by law, be final and binding upon all parties. Members of the Board who are eligible Employees are permitted to
participate in the Plan except to the extent limited by Subsection (b) of this Section 12. All references in this Plan to the Board shall mean the committee(s) appointed by the Board, if any.   
     
   8   

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (a) of this Section 12, in the
event that Rule 16b-3 provides specific requirements for the administrators of plans of this type, and the Board determines that compliance with such provisions is reasonable, the Plan (or, if permitted by Rule 16b-3, transactions in the Plan by
persons who are subject to Section 16(b)) shall be administered only by such a body and in such a manner as shall comply with the applicable requirements of Rule 16b-3. Unless permitted by Rule 16b-3, no discretion concerning decisions
regarding the Plan (or, if permitted by Rule 16b-3, transactions in the Plan by persons who are subject to Section 16(b)) shall be afforded to any committee or person that is not  disinterested  as such term is defined in Rule 16b-3.
      13. TRANSFERABILITY    
  Neither payroll deductions credited to a participant s account nor any rights with regard to the exercise of an option or to receive
shares under the Plan may be assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise disposed of in any way (other than by will, the laws of descent and distribution) by the participant. Any such attempt at assignment, transfer, pledge or other disposition
shall be without effect, except that the Company may treat such act as an election to withdraw funds in accordance with Section 10.   
   14. USE OF FUNDS       All
payroll deductions received or held by the Company under the Plan may be used by the Company for any corporate purpose, and the Company shall not be obligated to segregate such payroll deductions unless required by local law.   
   15. REPORTS       Individual
accounts will be maintained for each participant in the Plan. Statements of account will be available at the Plan broker to participating Employees as soon as practicable following the Exercise Date, which statements will set forth the amounts of
payroll deductions/contributions, the number of shares purchased, the per share purchase price and the remaining cash balance, if any.       16.
EQUAL RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES       All eligible Employees participating in the Code Section 423 plan shall have equal rights
and privileges with respect to the Plan so that the Plan qualifies as an  employee stock purchase plan  within the meaning of Section 423 or any successor provision of the Code and the related regulations. Any provision of the Plan
which, is intended to be part of the Code Section 423 plan and is inconsistent with Section 423 or any successor provision of the Code shall without further act or amendment by the Company or the Board be reformed to comply with the
requirements of Section 423. This Section 16 shall take precedence over all other provisions in the Plan with respect to the Section 423 plan, but shall not prevent the grant of options under a non-423 plan which do not qualify under
Section 423 of the Code pursuant to rules, procedures or sub-plans adopted by the Board designed to achieve desired tax or other objectives in particular locations outside the United States as described in Section 23 herein.   
     
   9   

17. APPLICABLE LAW    
  The Plan shall be governed by the substantive laws (excluding the conflict of laws rules) of the State of California.   
   18. ADJUSTMENTS UPON CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION, DISSOLUTION, MERGER OR ASSET SALE    
  (a) Subject to any required action by the stockholders of Oracle, the number of shares of Common Stock covered by each option under the
Plan which has not yet been exercised and the number of shares of Common Stock which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan, but have not yet been placed under option (collectively, the  Reserves ) as well as the price per share
of Common Stock covered by each option under the Plan which has not yet been exercised, shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split,
combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or the payment of a dividend payable in shares of Oracle s capital stock (but only on the Common Stock) or any other increase or decrease in the number of shares of Common Stock effected
without receipt of consideration by Oracle; provided, however, that conversion of any convertible securities of Oracle shall not be deemed to have been  effected without receipt of consideration.  Such adjustment shall be made by the
Board, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive. Except as expressly provided herein, no issue by Oracle of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect,
and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of Common Stock subject to an option. The Board may, if it so determines in the exercise of its sole discretion, make provision for adjusting the
Reserves, as well as the price per share of Common Stock covered by each outstanding option, in the event Oracle effects one or more reorganizations, recapitalizations, rights offerings or other increases or reductions of shares of its outstanding
Common Stock.      (b) In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of Oracle, the Offering Period will terminate
immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed dissolution or liquidation, unless otherwise provided by the Board, and the Company shall return to each participant, to the extent permitted by law, any amounts without interest (unless
required by local law as determined by the Board) remaining in his or her payroll deduction account.      (c) In the event of a
proposed sale of all or substantially all of the assets of Oracle, or the merger of Oracle with or into another corporation, each option under the Plan shall be assumed or an equivalent option shall be substituted by such successor corporation or a
parent or subsidiary of such successor corporation, unless the Board determines, in the         
   10   

exercise of its sole discretion and in lieu of such assumption or substitution to shorten an Offering Period then in progress by setting a new Exercise Date (the  New Exercise Date ).
If the Board shortens the Offering Period then in progress in lieu of assumption or substitution in the event of a merger or sale of assets, the Board shall notify each participant in writing, at least ten (10) days prior to the New Exercise
Date, that the Exercise Date for his or her option (including for purposes of determining the option price per share under Section 7(b)) has been changed to the New Exercise Date and that his or her option will be exercised automatically on the
New Exercise Date, unless prior to such date he or she has withdrawn from the Offering Period as provided in Section 10. For purposes of this Section, an option granted under the Plan shall be deemed to be assumed if, following the sale of
assets or merger, the option confers the right to purchase, for each share of Common Stock subject to the option immediately prior to the sale of assets or merger, the consideration (whether stock, cash or other securities or property) received in
the sale of assets or merger by holders of Common Stock for each share of Common Stock held on the effective date of the transaction (and if such holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a
majority of the outstanding shares of Common Stock); provided, however, that if such consideration received in the sale of assets or merger was not solely common stock of the successor corporation or its parent (as defined in Section 424(e) of
the Code), the Board may, with the consent of the successor corporation, provide for the consideration to be received upon exercise of the option to be solely common stock of the successor corporation or its parent equal in fair market value to the
per share consideration received by holders of Common Stock as a result of the sale of assets or merger.       19. AMENDMENT, SUSPENSION OR
TERMINATION OF PLAN       The Board may at any time and for any reason terminate, suspend or amend the Plan. Except as provided
in Section 18, no such termination can affect options previously granted, provided that an Offering Period may be terminated by the Board on any Exercise Date if the Board determines that the termination of the Plan is in the best interests of
the Company and its stockholders. Except as provided in Section 18, no amendment may make any change in any option previously granted which adversely affects the rights of any participant without the consent of the participant, except to the
extent as may be necessary to qualify the Plan as an employee stock purchase plan pursuant to Code Section 423 or to comply with any applicable law, regulation or rule.   
   20. NOTICES       All notices
or other communications by a participant to the Company under or in connection with the Plan shall be deemed to have been duly given when received in the form specified by the Company at the location, or by the person, designated by the Company for
the receipt thereof.         
   11   

21. STOCKHOLDER APPROVAL    
  The Plan shall become effective upon the earlier to occur of its adoption by the Board or its approval by the stockholders of Oracle. If
stockholder approval of the Plan is not obtained prior to the Exercise Date for the first Offering Period under the Plan, all options previously granted under the Plan shall terminate on the Exercise Date and all amounts accrued in each
participant s account shall be refunded promptly, without interest, to each participant. Whenever stockholder approval is sought under the Plan, either for its initial approval or for a subsequent amendment, it may be obtained in any manner
permitted by applicable corporate law. If stockholder approval is required under the Code for an amendment to the Plan adopted or proposed to be adopted by the Board, such stockholder approval shall be obtained in any manner and within the time
periods required by the Code. The Board, in its discretion, also may obtain stockholder approval for any amendment to the Plan adopted by or proposed to be adopted by the Board to the extent desirable to maintain compliance with Rule 16b-3.
      22. CONDITIONS UPON ISSUANCE OF SHARES    
  Shares shall not be issued with respect to an option unless the exercise of such option and the issuance and delivery of such shares
pursuant thereto shall comply with all applicable provisions of law, domestic or foreign, including, without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the requirements
of any stock exchange upon which the shares may then be listed, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance. As a condition to the exercise of an option, the Company may require the person
exercising such option to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise that the shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the
Company, such a representation is required by any of the aforementioned applicable provisions of law.       23. RULES FOR FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS
      (a) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Plan, the Board may adopt rules or procedures relating to the
operation and administration of the Plan to accommodate the specific requirements of local laws and procedures. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Board is specifically authorized to adopt rules and procedures regarding the
definition of Compensation, handling of payroll deductions, making of contributions to the Plan in forms other than payroll deductions, establishment of bank or trust accounts to hold payroll deductions, payment of interest, conversion of local
currency, obligations to pay payroll tax, withholding procedures and delivery of shares which vary with local requirements.         
   12   

(b) The Board may also adopt rules, procedures or sub-plans applicable to particular
Participating Subsidiaries or Participating Affiliates or locations, which sub-plans may be designed to be outside the scope of Code Section 423. The rules of such sub-plans may take precedence over other provisions of this Plan, with the
exception of Sections 11 and 21, but unless otherwise superseded by the terms of such sub-plan, the provisions of this Plan shall govern the operation of such sub-plan. To the extent inconsistent with the requirements of Code Section 423,
such sub-plans shall be considered part of the non-423 Plan, and the options granted thereunder shall not be considered to comply with Section 423.         
   13   

</EX-10.02>

<EX-12.01>
 3
 dex1201.htm
 CONSOLIDATED RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Consolidated Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12.01    
   ORACLE CORPORATION    
   Consolidated Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges    
   (Unaudited)        

(1)   
    
         The term  earnings  means
the amounts resulting from the following: (a) our income before provision for income taxes, plus (b) the noncontrolling interests in the net income of our majority owned subsidiaries, plus (c) our fixed charges, less (d) our
share of our equity investee s income before provision for income taxes.           

(2)   
    
         The term  fixed charges 
means the amounts resulting from the following: (a) our interest expensed, plus (b) our estimate of the interest component of rent expense.       
  We do not report any shares of preferred stock outstanding in our consolidated financial statements because our outstanding preferred stock is owned by
one or more of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. Our ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred dividends for any given period is equivalent to our ratio of earnings to fixed charges.   

</EX-12.01>

<EX-21.01>
 4
 dex2101.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Exhibit 21.01    
   ORACLE CORPORATION    
   Subsidiaries of the Registrant        

Domestic Subsidiaries    
      
     Place of Incorporation     
 
    GoldenGate Software Worldwide LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Logical Applications, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Logical Apps, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Milano Acquisition Corporation   
      
  California   
 
    Oracle Credit Corporation   
      
  California   
 
    Oracle Education Foundation   
      
  California   
 
    Oracle International Corporation   
      
  California   
 
    Oracle International Distribution, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Oracle International Technology Corporation   
      
  California   
 
    Oracle Siebel Scholars Foundation   
      
  California   
 
    Sun Microsystems International, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Sun Microsystems LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Sun Microsystems Management Services Corporation   
      
  California   
 
    Upshot Corporation   
      
  California   
 
    Vaau, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    MOHR Development, Inc.   
      
  Connecticut   
 
    Agile Software Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BEA Crossgain, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BEA Systems Holding B, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BEA Systems, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Business Online, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Castek, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Castek RGB, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Castek Software Factory, Ltd.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ECTone, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Flashline, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fuego, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Hyperion Solutions Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Hyperion Solutions Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    i-flex Processing Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    InterActive WorkPlace, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Istante Software, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Jade Acquisition Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Janna Systems (US) Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mantas, Inc.   
      
  Delaware    

Domestic Subsidiaries    
      
     Place of Incorporation     
 
    MetaSolv, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Moonshot Acquisition Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MySQL Americas, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Niwot Acquisition Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Octet String, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    OIC Acquisition I Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    OIC Acquisition II Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    OIC Acquisition VIII Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    OnTarget Acquisition Sub LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    OnTarget Acquisition Sub II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    OnTarget Acquisition Sub III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle Acquisition I Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle Acquisition II Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle America, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle Americas Investment 2 LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle Americas Investment 3 LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle Americas Investment LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle BEA Spain Holding LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle Financial Services Software America, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle Financial Services Software, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle Global Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle GKS Hungary LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle Japan Holding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle Mauritius Holding Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle OTC Holdings General Partnership   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle OTC Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle Systems Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oracle Taiwan LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Orchestream USA, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pine Acquisition Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Plumtree Software, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Q-Layer, Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    RSIB, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Siebel Helpline.com, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Siebel Systems Holdings, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Siebel Systems International LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Siebel Systems International LP   
      
  Delaware    

Domestic Subsidiaries    
      
     Place of Incorporation     
 
    Siebel Systems, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Siebel Systems Ireland Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SLP2 LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sotas, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SPL WorldGroup Holdings, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SPL WorldGroup, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    StorageTek International Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Stratford Acquisition Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sun Microsystems Exchange, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sun Microsystems Global Financial Services, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    The Theory Center, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Strategic Processing Corporation   
      
  Illinois   
 
    Monaco Acquisition Corporation   
      
  Maryland   
 
    Lodestar Corporation   
      
  Massachusetts   
 
    RogersGrant LLP   
      
  Massachusetts   
 
    nquire Software, Inc.   
      
  Minnesota   
 
    Stellent, Inc.   
      
  Minnesota   
 
    Delphi Asset Management Corporation   
      
  Nevada   
 
    Reliaty, Inc.   
      
  New Hampshire   
 
    Nomadic Systems, Inc.   
      
  New Jersey   
 
    ISOPIA Corp.   
      
  New York   
 
    Softport Systems, Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    The 20-20 Group, Ltd.   
      
  Ohio   
 
    Primavera Software, Inc.   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Primavera Systems, Inc.   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Prodika, Inc.   
      
  Texas    

International Subsidiaries    
      
     Place of Incorporation     
 
    Oracle Argentina, S.A.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Sun Microsystems de Argentina, S.A.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    A.C.N.# 075-333596   
      
  Australia   
 
    BEA Systems Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    edocs Asia-Pacific Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Eontec Australia Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    G-Log Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Haley (Australia) Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Hyperion Solutions Australia Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    IQMS Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    J.D. Edwards Australia Pty. Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    J.D. Edwards World Solutions Company Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    LODESTAR Solutions Australia Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    MetaSolv Australia Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    MySQL Australia Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Oracle Australia Holdings Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Oracle Australia Property Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Oracle Consolidation Australia Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Oracle Corporation Australia Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Oracle Superannuation Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    PeopleSoft Australia Pty. Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Portal Software International Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Retek Information Systems Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    RuleBurst Holdings Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    SeeBeyond Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Sidewinder Asia Pacific Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Siebel Systems Australia Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    SPL (Australia) Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    SPL WorldGroup (Australia) Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    SPL WorldGroup Holdings (Australia) Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Statute Technologies Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Stellent Asia Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Sun Microsystems Australia Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Vantive Australia Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Oracle Austria GmbH   
      
  Austria   
 
    Sun Microsystems Ges.m.b.H.   
      
  Austria   
 
    BEA Systems (FSC) Inc.   
      
  Barbados   
 
    Hyperion Foreign Sales Corporation   
      
  Barbados    

International Subsidiaries    
      
     Place of Incorporation     
 
    J.D. Edwards   Company Foreign Sales, Inc.   
      
  Barbados   
 
    Crest Group N.V.   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Oracle Belgium B.V.B.A/SPRL.   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Q-Layer BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Sun Microsystems Belgium N.V./S.A.   
      
  Belgium   
 
    GoldenGate Software Worldwide LP   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Hyperion Solutions Technologies, LP   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Solaris Indemnity, Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    StorageTek (Bermuda) Finance Limited   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Sun Microsystems Technology Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Oracle BH d.o.o. Sarajevo   
      
  Bosnia   Herzegovina   
 
    Oracle do Brasil Sistemas Limitada   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Sun Microsystems do Brasil Industria e Comercio Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    PSFT (BVI) Holding Corporation   
      
  British Virgin Islands   
 
    PeopleSoft China Holding Corporation   
      
  British Virgin Islands   
 
    3055855 Nova Scotia Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    514713 N.B. Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    BEA Systems, Ltd.   
      
  Canada   
 
    i-flex Solutions Inc. (Canada)   
      
  Canada   
 
    ISOPIA Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    GoldenGate Software Canada Ltd.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Oracle Canada ULC   
      
  Canada   
 
    Oracle Nova Scotia Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    Oracle Numetrix Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    Star Acquisition ULC   
      
  Canada   
 
    Steltor Corporation   
      
  Canada   
 
    Steltor General Partnership   
      
  Canada   
 
    Steltor Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Sun Microsystems (B.C.) ULC   
      
  Canada   
 
    WebGain (Nova Scotia) Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    WebGain Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    BEA CrossGain International   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    BEA International (fka BEA Cayman Holding III)   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Oracle International Holding Company   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    SPL WorldGroup International Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Sun Microsystems (U.A.E.) Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Centro de Capacitacion Oracle Ltda.   
      
  Chile   
 
    Oracle Financial Services Software Chile Ltda.   
      
  Chile    

International Subsidiaries    
      
     Place of Incorporation     
 
    Sistemas Oracle de Chile, S.A.   
      
  Chile   
 
    Sun Microsystems de Chile, S.A.   
      
  Chile   
 
    Agile Software (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    BEA Systems (China) Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    BEA Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Hyperion Solutions (China) Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    J.D. Edwards Software (Beijing) Co. Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Oracle (China) Software Systems Company Limited   
      
  China   
 
    Oracle Financial Services Software (Shanghai) Limited   
      
  China   
 
    Oracle Research   Development Center, Shenzhen, Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Oracle Research   Development Center, Beijing, Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    PeopleSoft (Beijing) Software Co. Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    StorageTek (China) Services Company Limited   
      
  China   
 
    Sun Microsystems (China) Co. Limited   
      
  China   
 
    Sun Microsystems Consulting Limited   
      
  China   
 
    Sun Microsystems Products, Limited   
      
  China   
 
    Oracle Colombia Limitada   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Sun Microsystems de Colombia, S.A.   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Oracle CR SSC, S.A.   
      
  Costa Rica   
 
    Oracle de Centroam rica, S.A.   
      
  Costa Rica   
 
    Oracle Hrvatska d.o.o.   
      
  Croatia   
 
    Oracle Systems Limited   
      
  Cyprus   
 
    Sun Microsystems (Cyprus) Limited   
      
  Cyprus   
 
    Oracle Czech s.r.o.   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Sun Microsystems Czech s.r.o.   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Oracle Danmark ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Sun Microsystems Danmark A/S   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Oracle Egypt Ltd.   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Sun Microsystems (Egypt) Ltd.   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Innobase OY   
      
  Finland   
 
    Oracle Finland OY   
      
  Finland   
 
    Sun Microsystems OY   
      
  Finland   
 
    Oracle France, S.A.S.   
      
  France   
 
    Retek Information Systems S.A.   
      
  France   
 
    Sun Microsystems France S.A.S.   
      
  France   
 
    Sun Microsystems Services France S.A.S.   
      
  France   
 
    Blitz F09-eins GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    G-Log GmbH   
      
  Germany    

International Subsidiaries    
      
     Place of Incorporation     
 
    innotek GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Oracle Deutschland GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    PeopleSoft Unterst tzungskasse GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Sun Microsystems GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Oracle Financial Services Software S.A.   
      
  Greece   
 
    Oracle Hellas, S.A.   
      
  Greece   
 
    Sun Microsystems (Hellas) S.A.   
      
  Greece   
 
    BEA Systems Hong Kong Ltd.   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Hyperion Solutions (Hong Kong) Ltd.   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Oracle Hong Kong Holdings Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Oracle Systems Hong Kong Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    PeopleSoft Hong Kong Ltd.   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Portal Software (Asia Pacific) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    RuleBurst (Asia) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Sun Microsystems China Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Sun Microsystems of California Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Oracle Hungary Kft.   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Qualification Development Sz m t stechnikai Korl tolt Felel ss g 
T rsas g   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Sun Microsystems Kft.   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Agile Software Enterprise Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    AmberPoint Technology India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    BEA Systems India Private Ltd.   
      
  India   
 
    BEA Systems India Technology Center Private Ltd.   
      
  India   
 
    ECTone (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    GoldenGate Technologies South Asia Pte Ltd.   
      
  India   
 
    Hyperion Solutions India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    J.D. Edwards India Software Pvt. Ltd.   
      
  India   
 
    Logical Apps Solutions Pvt. Ltd.   
      
  India   
 
    Mantas (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    mValent Technologies Pvt. Ltd.   
      
  India   
 
    Oracle Financial Services Software Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Oracle India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Oracle (OFSS) ASP Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Oracle (OFSS) BPO Services Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Oracle (OFSS) Processing Services Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Oracle Solution Services (India) Private Ltd.   
      
  India   
 
    PeopleSoft India Private Ltd.   
      
  India    

International Subsidiaries    
      
     Place of Incorporation     
 
    Portal Information Technology India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    ProfitLogic Software Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Relsys (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Siebel Systems Software (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Sophoi Technologies Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Sunday Bazaar Internet Sales   
      
  India   
 
    Sun Microsystems India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    PT Oracle Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    BEA Systems Ireland Holding Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    BEA Systems Ireland Sales Support   Services Ltd   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Eontec Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    J.D. Edwards Europe Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MySQL Ireland Ltd.   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Netsure Telecom Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    OCAPAC Distributor Partner   
      
  Ireland   
 
    OCAPAC Holding Company   
      
  Ireland   
 
    OCAPAC Korea Holding Company   
      
  Ireland   
 
    OCAPAC NIH1 Company   
      
  Ireland   
 
    OCAPAC NIH3 Company   
      
  Ireland   
 
    OCAPAC Operating Company   
      
  Ireland   
 
    OCAPAC Research Company   
      
  Ireland   
 
    OCAPAC Research Partner   
      
  Ireland   
 
    OCAPAC Vietnam Holding Company   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Oracle CAPAC Services Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Oracle East Central Europe Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Oracle EMEA Holdings   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Oracle EMEA Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Oracle Technology Company   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Siebel Systems EMEA Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Siebel Systems Ireland Holdings Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    SPL WorldGroup (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Sun Microsystems Ireland Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    BEA Systems Middle East Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Convergin Israel Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Oracle Demantra R D Center Israel Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Oracle HyperRoll Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Oracle Primavera Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Oracle Software Systems Israel Limited   
      
  Israel    

International Subsidiaries    
      
     Place of Incorporation     
 
    SPL WorldGroup 2000 Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Sun Microsystems Israel Limited   
      
  Israel   
 
    Oracle Italia S.R.L.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Sun Microsystems Italia S.p.A.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Oracle Corporation Japan   
      
  Japan   
 
    Oracle Information Systems (Japan) K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Sun Microsystems Global Finance K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Sun Microsystems K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Oracle Consulting Kazakhstan LLP   
      
  Kazazkhstan   
 
    Oracle Korea, Ltd.   
      
  Korea   
 
    Sun Microsystems Korea, Limited   
      
  Korea   
 
    Oracle CAPAC Finance S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Oracle Finance S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    PeopleSoft Luxembourg S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    SPL Acquisition S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Sun Microsystems Investments S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Sun Microsystems Luxembourg S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    G-Log Sdn Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Oracle Corporation Malaysia Holdings Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Oracle Corporation Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Oracle MSC Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    PeopleSoft Worldwide (M) Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    StorageTek (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Sun Microsystems Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    AmberPoint Technology Mauritius Private Ltd.   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    ISP Internet Mauritius Company   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    OCAPAC Mauritius Holding Company   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Oracle Global (Mauritius) Ltd.   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Oracle de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Sun Microsystems de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    BEA Systems Distribution B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    edocs Europe Netherlands B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    G-Log B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Oracle Corporation UK Finance B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Oracle Deutschland Verwaltung B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Oracle Distribution B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Oracle East Central Europe Services BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Oracle Financial Services Software B.V.   
      
  Netherlands    

International Subsidiaries    
      
     Place of Incorporation     
 
    Oracle Nederland B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Oracle Scheduler B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    PeopleSoft International B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    SPL WorldGroup B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Stellent Holding B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Sun Microsystems European Holding B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Sun Microsystems Europe Properties B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Sun Microsystems Global Services B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Sun Microsystems International B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Sun Microsystems International Holding B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Sun Microsystems (Middle East) B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Sun Microsystems Nederland B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Sun Microsystems Scotland B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Tinoway Nederland B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Oracle Holding Antilles N.V.   
      
  Netherlands Antilles   
 
    Oracle New Zealand   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Oracle Software (Nigeria) Limited   
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Oracle Norge AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Sun Microsystems AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Oracle Systems Pakistan (Private) Limited   
      
  Pakistan   
 
    Sistemas Oracle del Peru, S.A.   
      
  Peru   
 
    Oracle (Philippines) Corporation   
      
  Philippines   
 
    SPL WorldGroup (Philippines), Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    BEA Systems Poland SP Z.o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Oracle Polska, Sp.z.o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Sun Microsystems Poland Sp.z.o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Oracle Portugal - Sistemas de Informa  o Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Sun Microsystems (Portugal) Tecnicas de Informatica, Sociedade Unipessoal, Limitada   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Oracle Caribbean, Inc.   
      
  Puerto Rico   
 
    Oracle Support Renewals EMEA SRL   
      
  Romania   
 
    Oracle Romania SRL   
      
  Romania   
 
    MySQL LLC   
      
  Russia   
 
    SPL Worldgroup LLC   
      
  Russia   
 
    Sun Microsystems AO   
      
  Russia   
 
    Sun Microsystems SPB LLC   
      
  Russia   
 
    Oracle Systems Limited   
      
  Saudi Arabia   
 
    Saudi Oracle Limited (under liquidation)   
      
  Saudi Arabia    

International Subsidiaries    
      
     Place of Incorporation     
 
    Sun Microsystems Scotland Holding LP   
      
  Scotland   
 
    Sun Microsystems Scotland Limited   
      
  Scotland   
 
    Sun Microsystems Scotland LP   
      
  Scotland   
 
    Oracle SRBIJA CRNA GORA d.o.o.   
      
  Serbia   
 
    G-Log Pte Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    GoldenGate Software Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Haley (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Hyperion Software Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Hyperion Solutions Asia Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Mantas Singapore Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Oracle Corporation Singapore Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Oracle Financial Services Consulting Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Oracle Financial Services Software Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Oracle Singapore Holdings Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Sun Microsystems Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Oracle Slovensko spol. s.r.o.   
      
  Slovakia   
 
    Sun Microsystems Slovakia, s.r.o.   
      
  Slovakia   
 
    Oracle Software d.o.o. Ljubljana   
      
  Slovenia   
 
    Oracle Corporation (South Africa)(Pty) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Oracle Empowerment (Pty) Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Sun Microsystems (South Africa) (Pty) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Oracle Iberica, S.R.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Sun Microsystems Iberica, S.A.U.   
      
  Spain   
 
    MySQL AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Oracle Svenska AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Sun Microsystems AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Oracle GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Oracle Software (Schweiz) GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Plumtree Software GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Sun Microsystems (Schweiz) AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    J.D. Edwards (Taiwan) Company Ltd.   
      
  Taiwan   
 
    PeopleSoft Taiwan Ltd. Co.   
      
  Taiwan   
 
    Sun Microsystems Taiwan Limited   
      
  Taiwan   
 
    Oracle Corporation (Thailand) Company Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Sun Microsystems (Thailand) Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Oracle Bilgisayar Sistemleri Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Oracle Bilgi Sistemleri Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Sun Microsystems (Bilgisayar Sistemleri) Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey    

International Subsidiaries    
      
     Place of Incorporation     
 
    Sun Microsystems Ukraine LLC   
      
  Ukraine   
 
    PeopleSoft Middle East FZ-LLC   
      
  United Arab Emirates   
 
    Siebel Systems Middle East FZ-LLC   
      
  United Arab Emirates   
 
    Acsera Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Advanced Visual Technology   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Advanced Visual Technology Americas   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Haley (Europe)   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Mantas Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MySQL UK Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Oracle Corporation Nominees Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Oracle Corporation UK Holdings Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Oracle Corporation UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Oracle Corporation UK Trustee Company Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Oracle EMEA Management   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Oracle Sun Acquisition   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Oracle Sun Integration Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pertmaster Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Primavera UK Acquisition Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Relsys UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Siebel Systems UK   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Skywire Software   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Sun Microsystems Holdings Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Sun Microsystems Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Oracle de Venezuela, C.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Sun Microsystems de Venezuela, S.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Oracle Vietnam Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Vietnam    

</EX-21.01>

<EX-23.01>
 5
 dex2301.htm
 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23.01    
   CONSENT OF ERNST   YOUNG LLP,    
   INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:   

Equity Incentive Plan, Red Pepper Software Company 1993 Stock Option Plan, Skillsvillage 1999 Stock Plan, Teamscape Corporation 1998 Stock Plan, Trimark Technologies, Inc. 1993
Stock Option Plan, The Vantive Corporation Amended and Restated 1991 Stock Option Plan, The Vantive Corporation 1997 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan, Oracle Corporation 1993 Deferred Compensation Plan, Oracle Corporation 401(k) Savings and Investment
Plan       of our reports dated June 30, 2010, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Oracle
Corporation, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Oracle Corporation, included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Oracle Corporation for the year ended May 31, 2010.   
  /s/ ERNST   YOUNG LLP   
  San Francisco, California      June 30, 2010

</EX-23.01>

<EX-31.01>
 6
 dex3101.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 - LAWRENCE J. ELLISON

Certification Pursuant to Section 302 - Lawrence J. Ellison 

Exhibit 31.01    
   CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT    
  I, Lawrence J. Ellison, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Oracle Corporation;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the Finance and Audit Committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):     

a)  
  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.         

Date: June 30, 2010  

By:  
     
    /s/    L AWRENCE  J.
E LLISON             

Lawrence J. Ellison     Chief
Executive Officer and Director     

</EX-31.01>

<EX-31.02>
 7
 dex3102.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 - JEFF EPSTEIN

Certification Pursuant to Section 302 - Jeff Epstein 

Exhibit 31.02    
   CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT    
  I, Jeff Epstein, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Oracle Corporation;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the Finance and Audit Committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):     

a)  
  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.         

Date: June 30, 2010  

By:  
     
    /s/    J EFF 
E PSTEIN             

Jeff Epstein     Executive Vice
President and     Chief Financial Officer     

</EX-31.02>

<EX-32.01>
 8
 dex3201.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certification Pursuant to Section 906 

Exhibit 32.01    
   CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT    
  The certification set forth below is being submitted in connection with the report on Form 10-K of Oracle Corporation for the purpose of complying with
Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code.   
  Lawrence J. Ellison, the Chief Executive Officer of Oracle Corporation, and Jeff Epstein, the Chief Financial Officer of Oracle Corporation, each
certifies that, to the best of his knowledge:       

1.  
  the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and     

2.  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Oracle Corporation.

Date: June 30, 2010  
     
  By:  
     
    /s/    L AWRENCE  J.
E LLISON             

Lawrence J. Ellison     Chief
Executive Officer and Director    

Date: June 30, 2010  
     
  By:  
     
    /s/    J EFF 
E PSTEIN             

Jeff Epstein     Executive Vice
President and     Chief Financial Officer           

</EX-32.01>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 orcl-20100531.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 orcl-20100531.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 orcl-20100531_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 12
 orcl-20100531_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 orcl-20100531_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 orcl-20100531_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

