<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20111123_10-K_edgar_data_1001039_0001193125-11-321340_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>20047963</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>427436</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4984658</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3790732</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>6939387</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3328022</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>112</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-11-321340.hdr.sgml : 20111123
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20111123170501
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-11-321340
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20111001
FILED AS OF DATE:		20111123
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20111123

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WALT DISNEY CO/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001001039
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-MISCELLANEOUS AMUSEMENT & RECREATION [7990]
		IRS NUMBER:				954545390
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1001

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11605
		FILM NUMBER:		111225860

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		500 SOUTH BUENA VISTA ST
		CITY:			BURBANK
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			91521
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8185601000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		500 SOUTH BUENA VISTA ST
		CITY:			BURBANK
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			91521

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	DC HOLDCO INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19950918

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-11-321340.txt : 20111123

10-K
 1
 d232174d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

    UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C. 20549   
   FORM 10-K    
  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934       

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of Each Class   
      
    Name of Each Exchange  
  on Which Registered    

Common Stock, $.01 par value   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
    Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None.   
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes         No        Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes          No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes         No     
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every
Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).
    Yes           No        Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [   ]   
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer , and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act (Check one).   

Large accelerated filer   

Accelerated filer  

Non-accelerated filer (do not check if  
      smaller reporting company)   

Smaller reporting company  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
    Yes          No               The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates (based on the closing price on the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter as reported on
the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Transactions) was $75.3 billion. All executive officers and directors of the registrant and all persons filing a Schedule 13D with the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect to registrant s common
stock have been deemed, solely for the purpose of the foregoing calculation, to be  affiliates  of the registrant.   
  There were 1,796,513,187 shares of common stock outstanding as of November 15, 2011.   
   Documents Incorporated by Reference       Certain information required for Part III of this report is incorporated herein by reference to the proxy statement for the 2012 annual meeting of the Company s shareholders.   

Table of Contents  

    THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
     TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page  

PART I   

ITEM 1.   
     
   Business   

1  

ITEM 1A.   
     
   Risk Factors   

16  

ITEM 1B.   
     
   Unresolved Staff Comments   

21  

ITEM 2.   
     
   Properties   

22  

ITEM 3.   
     
   Legal Proceedings   

23  

Executive Officers of the Company     

23  

PART II   

ITEM 5.   
     
   Market for the Company s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

24  

ITEM 6.   
     
   Selected Financial Data   

25  

ITEM 7.   
     
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

26  

ITEM 7A.   
     
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

50  

ITEM 8.   
     
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

51  

ITEM 9.   
     
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

51  

ITEM 9A.   
     
   Controls and Procedures   

51  

ITEM 9B.   
     
   Other Information   

52  

PART III   

ITEM 10.   
     
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

53  

ITEM 11.   
     
   Executive Compensation   

53  

ITEM 12.   
     
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

53  

ITEM 13.   
     
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   

53  

ITEM 14.   
     
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services    

53  

PART IV   

ITEM 15.   
     
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    

54  

SIGNATURES     

57  

Consolidated Financial Information   The Walt Disney Company     

58  

Table of Contents  

(This page intentionally left blank)   

Table of Contents  

    PART I          ITEM 1. Business       The Walt Disney Company,
together with its subsidiaries, is a diversified worldwide entertainment company with operations in five business segments: Media Networks, Parks and Resorts, Studio Entertainment, Consumer Products and Interactive Media. For convenience, the terms
 Company  and  we  are used to refer collectively to the parent company and the subsidiaries through which our various businesses are actually conducted. On December 31, 2009, the Company completed an acquisition of Marvel
Entertainment, Inc. (Marvel). See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Marvel businesses are reported primarily in our Studio Entertainment and Consumer Products segments.   
  Information on the Company s revenues, operating income, and identifiable assets appears in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8 hereof. The Company employed approximately 156,000 people as of October 1, 2011.       MEDIA NETWORKS
      The Media Networks segment is comprised of international and domestic cable networks and our broadcasting business, which
consists of a domestic broadcast television network, television production operations, domestic and international television distribution, domestic television stations, domestic and international broadcast radio networks, domestic radio stations,
and publishing and digital operations.       Cable Networks       Our cable networks group operates the ESPN, Disney Channels Worldwide, ABC Family and SOAPnet networks. The cable networks group produces its own programs or acquires rights from third parties to air on
our networks. The Company also has interests in joint ventures that operate programming services and are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.      Cable networks derive a majority of their revenues from fees charged to cable, satellite and telecommunications service providers (Multi-channel Video Service Providers or MVSPs) and, for certain networks
(primarily ESPN and ABC Family), the sale to advertisers of time in network programs for commercial announcements. Generally, the Company s cable networks operate under multi-year carriage agreements with MVSPs that include contractually
determined fees. The amounts that we can charge to MVSPs for our cable network services are largely dependent on competition and the quality and quantity of programming that we can provide. The ability to sell time for commercial announcements and
the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand. We also sell programming developed by our cable networks to third parties
worldwide in pay and syndication markets, in DVD format and also online to third party services.   
         1   

Table of Contents  

   The Company s significant cable networks and our ownership percentage and estimated
subscribers as of October 1, 2011 are set forth in the following table:       

(1)    
    Estimated U.S. subscriber counts according to Nielsen Media Research as of September 2011, except as noted below      

(  2  )    
    ESPN and A E programming is distributed internationally through other networks discussed below.      

(  3  )    
    Subscriber counts are not rated by Nielsen and are based on internal management reports.      
   ESPN       ESPN is a
multimedia, multinational sports entertainment company that operates eight 24-hour domestic television sports networks: ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNEWS, ESPN Classic, ESPN Deportes (a Spanish language network), ESPNU (a network devoted to college sports), ESPN
3D (a 3D service), and the regionally focused Longhorn Network (a network dedicated to The University of Texas athletics). ESPN also operates five high-definition television simulcast services, ESPN HD, ESPN2 HD, ESPNEWS HD, ESPNU HD, and ESPN
Deportes HD. ESPN programs the sports schedule on the ABC Television Network, which is branded ESPN on ABC. ESPN owns, has equity interests in or has distribution agreements with 47 international sports networks reaching households in more than 200
countries and territories in 16 languages including a live sports network in the UK. ESPN holds a 50% equity interest in ESPN Star Sports, which distributes sports programming throughout most of Asia, and a 30% equity interest in CTV Specialty
Television, Inc., which owns The Sports Network, The Sports Network 2, Le R seau des Sports, ESPN Classic Canada, the NHL Network and Discovery Canada.      ESPN holds rights for various professional and college sports programming including, NFL, NBA, the SEC, ACC and Pac 12 college football and basketball conferences, NASCAR and MLB.   
  ESPN also operates:       

ESPN.com - which delivers comprehensive sports news, information and video each month through its national hub and five local sites  
ESPNBoston.com, ESPNChicago.com, ESPNDallas.com, ESPNLosAngeles.com and ESPNNewYork.com          

ESPN3 - which is a broadband service available to 70 million subscribers that delivers more than 4,000 live events      

ESPN Mobile Properties - which delivers content, including live game coverage, alerts and highlights, to mobile service providers

ESPN Regional Television - which is a syndicator of collegiate sports programming
     
         2   

Table of Contents  

The ESPN Radio Network and four owned ESPN Radio stations      

ESPN The Magazine          

ESPN Enterprises - which develops branded licensing opportunities      
  The Company holds a 15% interest in The Active Network, Inc., a domestic online community and marketing platform for individuals and
event organizers to participate in and promote sports and recreational activities.      The ESPN Radio Network is carried on more
than 750 stations, making it the largest sports radio network in the United States. We own four of the stations and 355 are operated full-time.   
   Disney Channels Worldwide    
   Disney Channel  Disney Channel is a 24-hour cable network airing original series and movie programming targeted to children and
families. Shows developed and produced internally for exhibition on Disney Channel include live-action comedy series, animated programming and educational preschool series, as well as movies for the Disney Channel Original Movie franchise.
Live-action comedy series include  A.N.T. Farm ,  Good Luck Charlie, Jessie, Shake It Up, The Suite Life on Deck  and  Wizards of Waverly Place  .  Disney Channel also airs the animated programs,  Phineas and Ferb  and
 Fish Hooks . Original series for preschoolers include the animated series  Disney s Mickey Mouse Clubhouse, Jake and the Never Land Pirates,  and  Special Agent Oso,  as well as the live-action series  Imagination Movers .
Programming is also acquired from third parties and includes content from Disney s theatrical film and television programming library.      On November 18, 2011, the Company acquired a 49% ownership interest in the Seven TV network from UTH Russia Limited (UTH) for $300 million. The Seven TV network will be converted to an ad-supported,
free-to-air Disney Channel in Russia.       Disney Junior  Disney Junior (formerly branded  Playhouse Disney ) provides
learning-focused programming for preschoolers. In the U.S., the daily Disney Junior programming block is aired on the Disney Channel. Disney Junior is aired internationally on our channels in Latin America, Europe, Asia, Australia and Africa.
Beginning in 2012, Disney Junior will also be a dedicated 24-hour basic channel in the United States for preschool-age children, parents and caregivers, featuring animated and live-action programming which blends Disney s storytelling and
characters with learning, including early math and language skills and featuring healthy eating, lifestyle, and social skills.   
   Disney XD  Disney XD has a mix of live-action and animated programming for kids ages 6-14, targeting boys and their quest for
discovery, accomplishment, sports, adventure and humor. The programming includes original series such as  Phineas and Ferb, Kick Buttowski,  and the live-action series,  Pair of Kings  and  Zeke and Luther , as well as movies and
short-form content including sports-themed content developed with ESPN.      In the U.S., Disney XD is seen on a 24-hour network.
We also have XD channels in Latin America, Europe and Asia that distribute programming to approximately 130 countries/territories.       Disney Cinemagic  Disney Cinemagic is a premium subscription service in Europe. Disney Cinemagic shows Disney movies, classic and newer Disney cartoons and shorts as well as animated television
series such as  Disney s House of Mouse, Lilo   Stitch: The Series , and  Tarzan .       Hungama 
Hungama is a kids general entertainment cable network in India which features a mix of anime, Hindi-language series and game shows.       ABC
Family       ABC Family is a U.S. television programming service that targets the 15-34 demographic. ABC Family produces
original programming including the returning series  The Secret Life of the American Teenager ,  Make It or Break It, Melissa   Joey  as well as new original series  Switched at Birth . ABC Family also acquires programming
including the returning series  Pretty Little Liars  and the new series  The Lying Game . Additionally, ABC Family airs content from our owned theatrical film library. ABC Family also features branded programming holiday events such as
 13 Nights of Halloween  and  25 Days of Christmas .      ABCFamily.com creates digital extensions to ABC
Family programming that feature interactivity and social networking. The site also features user-generated content and online programming that can be downloaded and customized based on individual user preferences.   
         3   

Table of Contents  

    SOAPnet       SOAPnet offers same-day episodes of daytime dramas at night and also original programming. Programming includes same-day episodes of daytime dramas such as  Days of Our Lives ,  One Life to
Live ,  General Hospital  and  The Young and the Restless  and primetime series such as  The O.C .,  One Tree Hill, Beverly Hills 90210 , and  The Gilmore Girls .   
  Content related to SOAPnet s programming is available on SOAPnet.com, including video extras, games, blogs, community forums, photos
and downloadable content.       AETN/Lifetime       The A E Television Networks (AETN) include A E, HISTORY, The Biography Channel and History International. A E offers entertainment ranging from reality series to original movies, dramatic
series, and justice shows. HISTORY offers original non-fiction series and event-driven specials. The Biography Channel offers original series about prominent people and their lives, including the  Biography  series. History International
focuses on the culture and history of various countries throughout the world from the perspective of locals. Internationally, A E programming is available in over 150 countries through joint ventures and distribution agreements with affiliates.
     Lifetime Entertainment Services (Lifetime) includes Lifetime Television, Lifetime Movie Network and Lifetime Real Women.
Lifetime Television is devoted to women s lifestyle programming. Lifetime Movie Network is a 24-hour movie channel. Lifetime Real Women is a 24-hour cable network with programming from a woman s point of view.   
  The Company s share of the financial results of the combined entity, AETN/Lifetime, is reported as  Equity in the income of
investees  in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income.       Radio Disney    
  Radio Disney is a 24/7 radio network for kids, tweens and families. Radio Disney is available on 34 terrestrial radio stations, 31 of
which we own, and on RadioDisney.com, SiriusXM satellite radio, iTunes Radio Tuner, XM/DIRECTV and mobile phones. Radio Disney programming can be downloaded via the iTunes Music Store. Radio Disney is also available throughout most of South America
via a separate Spanish language terrestrial broadcast.       UTV       The Company holds an approximate 50% direct interest in UTV Software Communications Limited (UTV), a media company headquartered and publicly traded in India that is accounted for as an unconsolidated
equity investment. Results from this investment are included in the Media Networks segment.      On July 25, 2011, the UTV
board of directors approved a proposal submitted by the Company to acquire the publicly held shares of UTV through a delisting offer process. Subsequently, the UTV shareholders approved the delisting of UTV s equity shares from the Indian stock
exchanges. The delisting process is governed by Indian law and will, if completed, involve an offer by the Company to acquire shares publicly traded on the Indian stock exchanges at a price determined through the offer process. The transaction is
subject to, among other things, Indian regulatory approval and the Company s acceptance of the price per share that results from the delisting offer process. If completed, the Company s interest in UTV would increase to at least 90% and
result in a delisting of UTV s shares. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof.       Broadcasting
       Domestic Broadcast Television Network       The Company operates the ABC Television Network, which as of October 1, 2011, had affiliation agreements with 238 local stations reaching 99% of all U.S. television households. The ABC Television
Network broadcasts programs in the following  dayparts : daytime, primetime, late night, news, and sports.      The ABC
Television Network produces its own programs or acquires rights from third parties, as well as entities that are owned by or affiliated with the Company. The ABC Television Network derives the majority of its revenues from the sale to advertisers of
time in network programs for commercial announcements. The ability to sell time for commercial announcements and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well
as overall advertiser demand for time on network broadcasts. The ABC Television Network also receives fees for its broadcast feed from some of its affiliated stations and pays varying amounts of compensation to some of its affiliated stations.
  
         4   

Table of Contents  

   ABC.com is the official web site of the ABC Television Network and provides access to
full-length episodes of ABC shows online. ABCNews.com provides in-depth worldwide news coverage online. ABCNews.com also offers broadband subscriptions to the 24-hour live internet news channel,  ABC News Now  and to video-on-demand news
reports from all ABC News broadcasts.       Television Production       The Company produces programming under the ABC Studios and ABC Media Productions labels. Program development is carried out in collaboration with independent writers, producers, and creative teams, with a
focus on half-hour comedies and one-hour dramas, primarily for primetime broadcasts. Primetime programming produced either for our networks or for third parties in the 2011/2012 television season include the returning one-hour dramas  Army Wives,
Body of Proof, Castle, Criminal Minds, Desperate Housewives, Grey s Anatomy,  and  Private Practice;  the returning half-hour comedies  Cougar Town  and  Happy Endings;  and new primetime series that premiere in the 2011/2012
season which include the one-hour dramas  Once Upon a Time  and  Revenge  as well as the half-hour comedy  Man Up !. Additionally,  Good Christian Belles ,  Missing ,  Scandal , and  The River  are in production
for mid-season.  Castle  entered the domestic syndication market during 2011 with the show becoming available beginning in 2012 .  We also produce  Jimmy Kimmel Live  for late night and a variety of primetime specials for network
television and live-action syndicated programming. Syndicated programming includes  Live! with Regis and Kelly,  a daily talk show, and  Who Wants to Be a Millionaire,  a game show. The Company also produces news programming including
 World News with Diane Sawyer ,  Good Morning America ,  20/20  and  Nightline  and programming for Daytime such as  The View  and  General Hospital .   
  We also distribute the Company s productions worldwide in pay and syndication markets, in DVD format and also online via Company
internet sites such as ABC.com and to third party services. Our distribution groups also distribute programming aired on our cable networks.   
   Domestic Television Stations       The Company owns eight television stations, six of which are located in the top-ten markets in the United States. The television stations derive the majority of their revenues from the sale to advertisers
of time in television station programs for commercial announcements and also receive retransmission fees charged to MVSPs. All of our television stations are affiliated with the ABC Television Network and collectively reach 23% of the nation s
television households. Each owned station broadcasts three digital channels: the first consists of local, ABC Television Network, and syndicated programming; the second is the Live Well Network broadcast in standard definition; and the third is the
Live Well Network broadcast in high definition.      Live Well Network provides programming focusing on lifestyle topics such as
interior design, healthy cooking, and outdoor activities. Live Well Network currently reaches 42% of the nation s households through our owned stations and affiliates.      Markets and details for the stations we own are as follows:       

Market    
      
     TV Station    
      
   Television     Market     Ranking (1)     

New York, NY   
      
  WABC-TV  
      
  1   
 
    Los Angeles, CA   
      
  KABC-TV  
      
  2   
 
    Chicago, IL   
      
  WLS-TV  
      
  3   
 
    Philadelphia, PA   
      
  WPVI-TV  
      
  4   
 
    San Francisco, CA   
      
  KGO-TV  
      
  6   
 
    Houston, TX   
      
  KTRK-TV  
      
  10   
 
    Raleigh-Durham, NC   
      
  WTVD-TV  
      
  24   
 
    Fresno, CA   
      
  KFSN-TV  
      
  55   

(1)    
    Based on Nielsen Media Research, U.S. Television Household Estimates, January 1, 2011      
  In April 2011, the Company sold TV stations in the Flint, Michigan and Toledo, Ohio markets.   
         5   

Table of Contents  

    Competition and Seasonality       The Company s Media Networks businesses compete for viewers primarily with other television and cable networks, independent television stations and other media, such as DVDs, video games and the
internet. With respect to the sale of advertising time, our broadcasting operations, certain of our cable networks and our television and radio stations compete with other television networks and radio stations, independent television stations,
MVSPs and other advertising media such as newspapers, magazines, billboards, and the internet. Our television and radio stations primarily compete for viewers in individual market areas. A television or radio station in one market generally does not
compete directly with stations in other markets.      The growth in the number of networks distributed by MVSPs has resulted in
increased competitive pressures for advertising revenues for both our broadcasting and cable networks. The Company s cable networks also face competition from other cable networks for carriage by MVSPs. The Company s contractual agreements
with MVSPs are renewed or renegotiated from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Consolidation and other market conditions in the cable and satellite distribution industry and other factors may adversely affect the Company s ability
to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of its various cable programming services that are as favorable as those currently in place.      The Company s Media Networks businesses also compete for the acquisition of sports and other programming. The market for programming is very competitive, particularly for sports programming. The
Company currently has sports rights agreements with the National Football League (NFL), college football (including college bowl games) and basketball conferences, National Basketball Association (NBA), National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing
(NASCAR), Major League Baseball (MLB), World Cup and various soccer leagues, and Golf and Tennis Associations.      The
Company s internet web sites and digital products compete with other web sites and entertainment products in their respective categories.      Advertising revenues at the Media Networks are subject to seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels. Revenues are typically somewhat higher during the fall and somewhat lower during
the summer months. Affiliate revenues are typically collected ratably throughout the year. Certain affiliate revenues at ESPN are deferred until annual programming commitments are met, and these commitments are typically satisfied during the second
half of the Company s fiscal year, which generally results in higher revenue recognition during this period.       Federal Regulation
      Television and radio broadcasting are subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
under federal laws and regulations, including the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Violation of FCC regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, limited renewals of licenses and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or
revocation of a license. FCC regulations that affect our Media Networks segment include the following:       

Licensing of television and radio stations.  Each of the television and radio stations we own must be licensed by the FCC. These licenses are
granted for periods of up to eight years, and we must obtain renewal of licenses as they expire in order to continue operating the stations. We (or the acquiring entity in the case of a divestiture) must also obtain FCC approval whenever we seek to
have a license transferred in connection with the acquisition or divestiture of a station. The FCC may decline to renew or approve the transfer of a license in certain circumstances. Although we have generally received such renewals and approvals in
the past, there can be no assurance that we will always obtain necessary renewals and approvals in the future.          

Television and radio station ownership limits.  The FCC imposes limitations on the number of television stations and radio stations we can own in
a specific market, on the combined number of television and radio stations we can own in a single market and on the aggregate percentage of the national audience that can be reached by television stations we own. Currently:

FCC regulations may restrict our ability to own more than one television station in a market, depending on the size and nature of the market. We do not
own more than one television station in any of the markets in which we own a television station.          

Federal statutes permit our television stations in the aggregate to reach a maximum of 39% of the national audience (for this purpose, FCC regulations
attribute to UHF television stations only 50% of the television households in their market). For purposes of the FCC s rules, our eight stations reach approximately 21% of the national audience.      

FCC regulations in some cases impose restrictions on our ability to acquire additional radio or television stations in the markets in which we own
radio stations, but we do not believe any such limitations are material to our current operating plans.      
         6   

Table of Contents  

Dual networks.  FCC rules currently prohibit any of the four major television networks   ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC   from being under
common ownership or control.          

Regulation of programming.  The FCC regulates broadcast programming by, among other things, banning  indecent  programming, regulating
political advertising and imposing commercial time limits during children s programming. Broadcasters face a heightened risk of being found in violation of the indecency prohibition by the FCC because of recent FCC decisions, coupled with the
spontaneity of live programming. In the past several years, the FCC increased enforcement activities with respect to indecency, and a number of significant indecency cases against various broadcasters remain pending in the courts. Moreover, the
penalties for broadcasting indecent programming are a maximum of $325,000 per violation.          

Federal legislation and FCC rules also limit the amount of commercial matter that may be shown on broadcast or cable channels during programming
designed for children 12 years of age and younger. In addition, broadcast channels are generally required to provide a minimum of three hours per week of programming that has as a  significant purpose  meeting the educational and
informational needs of children 16 years of age and younger. FCC rules also give television station owners the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes
to be of greater local or national importance.          

Cable and satellite carriage of broadcast television stations.  With respect to cable systems operating within a television station s
Designated Market Area, FCC rules require that every three years each television station elect either  must carry  status, pursuant to which cable operators generally must carry a local television station in the station s market, or
 retransmission consent  status, pursuant to which the cable operator must negotiate with the television station to obtain the consent of the television station prior to carrying its signal. Under the Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act
and its successors, including most recently the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act (STELA), which also requires the  must carry  or  retransmission consent  election, satellite carriers are permitted to retransmit a
local television station s signal into its local market with the consent of the local television station. Under must carry, if a satellite carrier elects to carry one local station in a market, the satellite carrier must carry the signals of
all local television stations that also request carriage.          

Digital television.  Pursuant to FCC regulations, all of the Company s stations now operate exclusively on digital channels.

Cable and satellite carriage of programming.  The Communications Act and FCC rules regulate some aspects of negotiations regarding cable and
satellite retransmission consent, and some cable and satellite companies have sought regulation of additional aspects of the carriage of programming on cable and satellite systems. Litigation has been instituted against the Company, other program
providers and distributors seeking among other things to achieve similar ends. New legislation, court action or regulation in this area could, depending on its specific nature, have an impact on the Company s operations.
        The foregoing is a brief summary of certain provisions of the Communications Act and other legislation and
of specific FCC rules and policies. Reference should be made to the Communications Act, other legislation, FCC rules and public notices and rulings of the FCC for further information concerning the nature and extent of the FCC s regulatory
authority.      FCC laws and regulations are subject to change, and the Company generally cannot predict whether new legislation,
court action or regulations, or a change in the extent of application or enforcement of current laws and regulations, would have an adverse impact on our operations.       PARKS AND RESORTS       The Company owns and operates the Walt Disney World
Resort in Florida, the Disneyland Resort in California, Aulani, a Disney Resort   Spa in Hawaii, the Disney Vacation Club, the Disney Cruise Line, and Adventures by Disney. The Company manages and has effective ownership interests of 51% in
Disneyland Paris, 47% in Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, and 43% in Shanghai Disney Resort. The Company also licenses the operations of the Tokyo Disney Resort in Japan. The Company s Walt Disney Imagineering unit designs and develops new theme
park concepts and attractions as well as resort properties.      The businesses in the Parks and Resorts segment generate revenues
predominately from the sale of admissions to the theme parks; charges for room nights at the hotels; merchandise, food and beverage sales; sales and rentals of vacation club properties; and sales of cruise vacations. Costs consist principally of
labor; depreciation; costs of merchandise, food and beverage sold; marketing and sales expense; repairs and maintenance; and entertainment.   
         7   

Table of Contents  

    Walt Disney World Resort       The Walt Disney World Resort is located 22 miles southwest of Orlando, Florida, on approximately 25,000 acres of owned land. The resort includes theme parks (the Magic Kingdom, Epcot, Disney s
Hollywood Studios and Disney s Animal Kingdom); hotels; vacation club properties; a retail, dining and entertainment complex; a sports complex; conference centers; campgrounds; golf courses; water parks; and other recreational facilities
designed to attract visitors for an extended stay.      The Walt Disney World Resort is marketed through a variety of
international, national and local advertising and promotional activities. A number of attractions in each of the theme parks are sponsored by other corporations through long-term agreements.   
   Magic Kingdom    The Magic Kingdom, which opened in 1971, consists of six themed lands: Main Street USA, Adventureland,
Fantasyland, Frontierland, Liberty Square, and Tomorrowland. Each land provides a unique guest experience featuring themed rides and attractions, live Disney character interaction, restaurants, refreshment areas and merchandise shops. Additionally,
there are daily parades and a nighttime fireworks extravaganza,  Wishes.  Fantasyland is undergoing an expansion that will nearly double its size and add new attractions and other guest offerings. The project is scheduled to be completed in
phases through 2014.         Epcot      Epcot, which opened in 1982, consists of two major themed areas:
Future World and World Showcase. Future World dramatizes certain historical developments and addresses the challenges facing the world today through major pavilions devoted to showcasing science and technology improvements, communication, energy,
transportation, using your imagination, nature and food production, the ocean environment and space. World Showcase presents a community of nations focusing on the culture, traditions and accomplishments of people around the world. Countries
represented with pavilions include the United States, Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Morocco, Norway and the United Kingdom. Both areas feature themed rides and attractions, restaurants and merchandise shops. Epcot also
features  Illuminations: Reflections of Earth,  a nighttime entertainment spectacular.         Disney s Hollywood
Studios    Disney s Hollywood Studios, which opened in 1989, consists of four themed areas: Hollywood Boulevard, Sunset Boulevard, Animation Courtyard, and Backlot. The four areas blend together as a large movie set and provide
behind-the-scenes glimpses of Hollywood-style action based on movies and TV shows. The park provides various shows, attractions, themed food service and merchandise facilities. Disney s Hollywood Studios also features  Fantasmic! , a
nighttime entertainment spectacular.       Disney s Animal Kingdom    Disney s Animal Kingdom, which opened in
1998, consists of a 145-foot Tree of Life centerpiece surrounded by six themed areas: Dinoland U.S.A., Africa, Rafiki s Planet Watch, Asia, Discovery Island and Camp Minnie-Mickey. Each themed area contains adventure attractions, entertainment
shows, restaurants and merchandise shops. The park features more than 300 species of mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians and 3,000 varieties of trees and plants. In September 2011, the Company announced an agreement with James Cameron s
Lightstorm Entertainment and Fox Filmed Entertainment for the exclusive global theme park rights to create themed lands based on the AVATAR franchise. The Company plans to build an AVATAR themed land at Walt Disney s Animal Kingdom.   
   Hotels and Other Resort Facilities    As of October 1, 2011, the Company owned and operated 17 resort hotels at the Walt
Disney World Resort, with a total of approximately 22,000 rooms and 468,000 square feet of conference meeting space. In addition, Disney s Fort Wilderness camping and recreational area offers approximately 800 campsites. In May 2010, the
Company announced plans to open Walt Disney World Resort s eighteenth hotel, Disney s Art of Animation Resort, which will add nearly 2,000 rooms by the end of 2012 including 1,120 family suites. The resort will be themed after the animated
films  The Little Mermaid, The Lion King ,  Finding Nemo  and  Cars .      The Walt Disney World Resort also hosts
a 120-acre retail, dining and entertainment complex known as Downtown Disney, which consists of the Marketplace, West Side and Pleasure Island. Downtown Disney is home to the 51,000-square-foot World of Disney retail store featuring
Disney-branded merchandise, Cirque du Soleil, the House of Blues, and the Company s DisneyQuest facility. A number of the Downtown Disney facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent and license fees to the Company. In September 2008,
the Company commenced a multi-year project to enhance Pleasure Island, which will feature new shopping and dining experiences to entertain guests of all ages.      ESPN Wide World of Sports is a 220-acre sports complex providing professional caliber training and competition, festival and tournament events and interactive sports activities. The complex, which hosts
over 200 amateur and professional events each year, accommodates multiple sporting events, including baseball, tennis, basketball, softball, track and field, football and soccer. Its stadium, which has a seating capacity of approximately 9,500, is
the spring training site for MLB s Atlanta Braves.   
         8   

Table of Contents  

   In the Downtown Disney Resort area, seven independently-operated hotels are situated on
property leased from the Company. These hotels include approximately 3,700 rooms. Additionally, the Walt Disney World Swan and the Walt Disney World Dolphin hotels, which have approximately 2,300 total rooms, are independently operated on property
leased from the Company near Epcot.      Other recreational amenities and activities available at the Walt Disney World Resort
include four championship golf courses, miniature golf courses, full-service spas, tennis, sailing, water skiing, swimming, horseback riding and a number of other noncompetitive sports and leisure time activities. The resort also includes two water
parks: Blizzard Beach and Typhoon Lagoon.       Disneyland Resort       The Company owns 461 acres and has the rights under long-term lease for use of an additional 49 acres of land in Anaheim, California. The Disneyland Resort includes two theme parks (Disneyland and Disney
California Adventure), three hotels and Downtown Disney, a retail, dining and entertainment complex designed to attract visitors for an extended stay.      The entire Disneyland Resort is marketed as a destination resort through international, national and local advertising and promotional activities. A number of the attractions and restaurants at both of
the theme parks are sponsored by other corporations through long-term agreements.       Disneyland    Disneyland, which
opened in 1955, consists of eight principal areas: Adventureland, Critter Country, Fantasyland, Frontierland, Main Street USA, New Orleans Square, Tomorrowland and Toontown. These areas feature themed rides and attractions, shows, restaurants,
merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Additionally, Disneyland offers daily parades and a nighttime entertainment spectacular,  Fantasmic! .       Disney California Adventure    Disney California Adventure, which opened in 2001, is adjacent to Disneyland and includes four principal areas: Golden State, Hollywood Pictures Backlot, Paradise
Pier and  a bug s land . These areas include rides, attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Additionally, Disney California Adventure offers a nighttime water spectacular,  World of Color,  the
first major element of the multi-year expansion that adds new entertainment and family-oriented attractions, including Cars Land, a 12-acre themed area inspired by the animated film  Cars,  which is scheduled to open in summer 2012.   
   Hotels and Other Resort Facilities    Disneyland Resort includes three Company-owned and operated hotels with a total of
approximately 2,400 rooms, 50 vacation club units, and 180,000 square feet of conference meeting space.      Disneyland Resort
also includes Downtown Disney, a themed 15-acre outdoor complex of entertainment, dining and shopping venues, located adjacent to both Disneyland Park and Disney California Adventure. A number of the Downtown Disney facilities are operated by third
parties that pay rent and license fees to the Company.       Aulani, a Disney Resort   Spa    
  In August 2011 the Company opened its first mixed-use family resort outside of its theme park developments on a 21-acre oceanfront
property on Oahu, Hawaii. Aulani, a Disney Resort   Spa features 359 hotel rooms, an 18,000 square foot spa and 12,000 square feet of conference meeting space. The resort is also home to a 481 unit Disney Vacation Club facility that is
being constructed in phases. As of October 1, 2011, 207 vacation club units had been completed.       Disneyland Paris    
  The Company has a 51% effective ownership interest in Disneyland Paris, a 5,510-acre development located in Marne-la-Vall e,
approximately 20 miles east of Paris, France, which has been developed pursuant to a master agreement with French governmental authorities. The Company manages and has a 40% equity interest in Euro Disney S.C.A., a publicly-traded French entity that
is the holding company for Euro Disney Associ s S.C.A., the primary operating company of Disneyland Paris. Euro Disney S.C.A. and its subsidiaries operate Disneyland Paris, which includes two theme parks (Disneyland Park and Walt Disney
Studios Park); seven themed hotels; convention centers; a shopping, dining and entertainment complex; and a 27-hole golf facility. Of the 5,510 acres comprising the site, approximately half have been developed to date, including the Val
d Europe development discussed below. An indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company is responsible for managing Disneyland Paris. Euro Disney S.C.A .  is required to pay royalties and management fees to the Company based on the
operating performance of the resort.   
         9   

Table of Contents  

    Disneyland Park    Disneyland Park, which opened in 1992, consists of five
principal themed areas: Adventureland, Discoveryland, Fantasyland, Frontierland, and Main Street. These areas include themed rides, attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Disneyland Park also features a daily
parade.         Walt Disney Studios Park    Walt Disney Studios Park opened in March 2002 adjacent to Disneyland
Park. The park takes guests into the worlds of cinema, animation and television and includes four principal themed areas: Front Lot, Toon Studios, Production Courtyard and Backlot. These areas each include themed rides, attractions, shows,
restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands.       Hotels and Other Facilities    Disneyland Paris operates
seven resort hotels, with a total of approximately 5,800 rooms and 250,000 square feet of conference meeting space. In addition, several on-site hotels that are owned and operated by third parties provide approximately 2,400 rooms.  
      Disneyland Paris also includes Disney Village, a retail, dining and entertainment complex of approximately 500,000 square
feet, located between the theme parks and the hotels. A number of the Disney Village facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent to a subsidiary of Euro Disney S.C.A.   
  Val d Europe is a planned community that is being developed near Disneyland Paris. The completed phases of the development include:
a town center, which consists of a shopping center; a 150-room hotel; office, commercial, and residential space; and a regional train station. Third parties operate these developments on land leased or purchased from Euro Disney S.C.A. and its
subsidiaries.      In fiscal 2005, Euro Disney S.C.A. completed a financial restructuring, which provided for an increase in
capital and refinancing of its borrowings. Pursuant to the financial restructuring, the Company agreed to conditionally and unconditionally defer certain management fees and royalties and convert them into long-term subordinated debt and provide a
ten-year line of credit, with a current limit of  100 million for liquidity needs.      In fiscal 2010, Euro Disney
S.C.A signed an amendment to the master agreement entered into between the Company and French governmental authorities in 1987 for the creation and operation of the resort. This amendment extends the duration of the agreement from 2017 to 2030. In
addition, the amendment provides for updated land entitlements that allow Euro Disney S.C.A to develop, in partnership with Groupe Pierre   Vacances Center Parcs, Les Villages Nature de Val d Europe, an innovative eco-tourism project.
      Hong Kong Disneyland Resort       The Company owns a 47% interest in Hong Kong Disneyland Resort through Hongkong International Theme Parks Limited, an entity in which the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR)
owns a 53% majority interest. A separate Hong Kong subsidiary of the Company is responsible for managing Hong Kong Disneyland Resort.      Located on 311 acres on Lantau Island, the resort is in close proximity to the Hong Kong International Airport. Hong Kong Disneyland Resort includes one theme park and two themed hotels.   
   Hong Kong Disneyland    Hong Kong Disneyland opened in 2005 and consists of the following themed areas: Adventureland,
Fantasyland, Main Street USA, Tomorrowland and Toy Story Land. These areas feature themed rides and attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Additionally, there are daily parades and a nighttime fireworks
extravaganza.       Hotels    Hong Kong Disneyland Resort includes two themed hotels with a total of 1,000 rooms.
     In July 2009, the Company and the HKSAR agreed to a capital realignment and expansion plan for Hong Kong Disneyland Resort.
The expansion, which is scheduled to be completed in phases by 2013, will bring three new themed areas to Hong Kong Disneyland: Toy Story Land, which opened in November 2011; Grizzly Gulch and Mystic Point. Pursuant to the plan, the Company
converted a loan to Hong Kong Disneyland Resort into equity and to date, has made additional capital contributions of $259 million and the HKSAR has contributed like amounts of capital by converting a portion of its loan to Hong Kong Disneyland
Resort into equity. This has increased the Company s effective ownership interest from 43% to 47% as of October 1, 2011. The Company expects to make additional capital contributions to fund the expansion of Hong Kong Disneyland Resort. See
Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      Based on the operating performance of Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, the
Company is entitled to receive royalties and management fees.   
         10   

Table of Contents  

    Shanghai Disney Resort       On April 8, 2011, the Company and Shanghai Shendi (Group) Co., Ltd (Shendi) announced that the Chinese central government in Beijing had approved an agreement to build and operate a Disney resort
(Shanghai Disney Resort) in the Pudong district of Shanghai. On opening day, the Shanghai Disney Resort will be located on roughly 1,000 acres, with additional room to expand in the future, and will include the Shanghai Disneyland theme park; two
themed hotels with a total of 1,220 rooms; a retail, dining and entertainment complex; and an outdoor recreational area. Shanghai Disney Resort is currently targeted to open in approximately five years.   
  Construction and operation of the project will be the responsibility of a joint venture in which Shendi owns a 57% interest and the
Company owns 43%. Construction has commenced and we expect the total investment to be approximately 24.5 billion yuan to build the theme park and an additional 4.5 billion yuan to build other aspects of the resort, including the hotels and the
retail, dining and entertainment area. The investment amounts will be funded in accordance with each partner s equity ownership percentage. In addition, a joint venture management company has been formed which is responsible for creating,
developing and operating the resort, with Disney having a 70% stake and Shendi owning 30%. The management company will be entitled to receive management fees based on project operations. In addition to the management fees and equity interest, the
Company will earn royalties on revenues generated by the resort.       Tokyo Disney Resort    
  Tokyo Disney Resort is located on approximately 494 acres of land, six miles east of downtown Tokyo, Japan. The resort includes two theme
parks (Tokyo Disneyland and Tokyo DisneySea); three Disney-branded hotels; six independently operated hotels; and a retail, dining and entertainment complex.       Tokyo Disneyland    Tokyo Disneyland, which opened in 1983, was the first Disney theme park to open outside the United States. Tokyo Disneyland consists of seven principal areas: Adventureland,
Critter Country, Fantasyland, Tomorrowland, Toontown, Westernland and World Bazaar.       Tokyo DisneySea    Tokyo
DisneySea, adjacent to Tokyo Disneyland, opened in 2001. The park is divided into seven  ports of call,  including Mediterranean Harbor, American Waterfront, Port Discovery, Lost River Delta, Mermaid Lagoon, Mysterious Island and Arabian
Coast.       Hotels and Other Resort Facilities  - The resort includes three Disney-branded hotels with a total of more than
1,700 rooms. The resort also includes the Disney Resort Line monorail, which links theme parks and resort hotels with Ikspiari, a retail, dining and entertainment complex, and Bon Voyage, a Disney-themed merchandise location.   
  The Company earns royalties on revenues generated by the Tokyo Disney Resort, which is owned and operated by Oriental Land Co., Ltd.
(OLC), a Japanese corporation in which the Company has no equity interest. OLC markets the Tokyo Disney Resort through a variety of local, domestic and international advertising and promotional activities.   
   Disney Vacation Club    
  The Disney Vacation Club offers ownership interests in 11 resort facilities located at the Walt Disney World Resort; Disneyland Resort;
Vero Beach, Florida; Hilton Head Island, South Carolina; and Oahu, Hawaii. Available units at each facility are offered for sale under a vacation ownership plan and are operated as hotel rooms when not occupied by vacation club members. The
Company s vacation club units consist of a mix of units ranging from one bedroom studios to three bedroom villas. Unit counts in this document are presented in terms of two bedroom equivalents. Disney Vacation Club has 3,267 vacation club units
as of October 1, 2011 and is scheduled to open an additional 274 units at Aulani, a 21-acre oceanfront resort on the island of Oahu, Hawaii. The resort, which opened its first phase in August 2011, also has a total of 359 traditional hotel
rooms.       Disney Cruise Line       Disney Cruise Line, which is generally operated out of Port Canaveral, Florida and Port of Los Angeles, California, is a vacation cruise line that includes three ships: the  Disney Magic , the
 Disney Wonder  and the  Disney Dream  which launched in January 2011. The Company is constructing a fourth ship, the  Disney Fantasy,  which will launch in March 2012. The ships cater to children, families and adults, with
distinctly-themed areas and activities for each group. The  Disney Magic  and the  Disney Wonder  are 85,000-ton ships which feature 877 staterooms, while the  Disney Dream  and the  Disney Fantasy  are 130,000 ton ships with
1,250 staterooms. Cruise vacations originating from Port Canaveral include a visit to Disney s Castaway Cay, a 1,000-acre private Bahamian island.   
         11   

Table of Contents  

    Adventures by Disney       Adventures by Disney offers all-inclusive guided vacation tour packages predominantly at non-Disney sites around the world. The Company provided 22 excursion packages during 2011.   
   Walt Disney Imagineering    
  Walt Disney Imagineering provides master planning, real estate development, attraction, entertainment and show design, engineering
support, production support, project management and other development services, including research and development for the Company s operations.       Competition and Seasonality       The Company s theme parks and resorts as
well as Disney Cruise Line and Disney Vacation Club compete with other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities. The profitability of the leisure-time industry may be influenced by various factors that are not directly
controllable, such as economic conditions including business cycle and exchange rate fluctuations, travel industry trends, amount of available leisure time, oil and transportation prices, and weather patterns and natural disasters.   
  All of the theme parks and the associated resort facilities are operated on a year-round basis. Typically, the theme parks and resorts
business experiences fluctuations in theme park attendance and resort occupancy resulting from the seasonal nature of vacation travel and local entertainment excursions. Peak attendance and resort occupancy generally occur during the summer months
when school vacations occur and during early-winter and spring-holiday periods.       STUDIO ENTERTAINMENT    
  The Studio Entertainment segment produces and acquires live-action and animated motion pictures, direct-to-video content, musical
recordings and live stage plays.      The Company distributes produced and acquired films (including its film and television
library) in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets with a focus on Disney-branded films under the Walt Disney Pictures and Pixar banners and Marvel-branded films. The Company also distributes films under the Touchstone Pictures
banner. Each of the market windows is discussed in more detail below.      In August 2009, the Company entered into an agreement
with DreamWorks Studios ( DreamWorks ) to distribute live-action motion pictures produced by DreamWorks over the next seven years under the Touchstone Pictures banner. Under the agreement, the Company distributed  I Am Number Four, The
Help  and  Fright Night  in fiscal 2011. As part of the agreement, the Company provides certain financing, which as of October 1, 2011, totaled $153 million. There is an additional $90 million available that is largely dependent on
DreamWorks obtaining additional equity financing.      Prior to the Company s acquisition, Marvel had agreements in place for
third party studios to distribute its films including  Iron Man, Iron Man 2, Thor, Captain America  and  The Incredible Hulk , which have all been released. Under these arrangements, the Company incurs the cost to produce the films and
pays the third party studio a distribution fee. Beginning with  The Avengers , which is scheduled for release in May 2012, the Company will distribute all Marvel produced films. In fiscal 2011, the Company purchased the distribution rights
for  The   Avengers  and  Iron Man 3  from a third   party studio and will pay certain fees to that studio associated with the performance of those films, subject to a minimum guarantee.   
  The Company has also licensed the rights to produce and distribute feature films for certain other Marvel properties including
 Spider-Man, The Fantastic Four,  and  X-Men  to third-party studios. Under these licensing arrangements, the third-party studio incurs the cost to produce and distribute the films and pays the Company a licensing fee. During the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company completed a two-way transaction to simplify our relationship with Sony Pictures. In this transaction, the Company purchased Sony Pictures participation in  Spider-Man  merchandising, while at the same time,
Sony Pictures purchased from the Company our participation in  Spider-Man  films. This transaction will allow the Company to control and fully benefit from all  Spider-Man  merchandising activity, while Sony Pictures will continue to
produce and distribute  Spider-Man  films.      On December 3, 2010, the Company sold Miramax Film NY, LLC (Miramax),
which was one of its banners, for $663 million. Net proceeds which reflect closing adjustments, the settlement of related claims and obligations and Miramax s cash balances at closing totaled $532 million. The sale included both Miramax and
Dimension film assets.         
         12   

Table of Contents  

    Theatrical Market       We generally produce and distribute live-action family films and full length animated films. During fiscal 2012, we expect to distribute domestically seven of our own produced feature films and four
DreamWorks films. As of October 1, 2011, the Company had released domestically approximately 970 full-length live-action features, 90 full-length animated features, 550 cartoon shorts and 50 live action shorts.   
  We distribute and market our filmed products principally through our own distribution and marketing companies in the U.S. theatrical
market. In the international theatrical markets, we distribute our filmed products both directly and through independent distribution companies or joint ventures. Films released theatrically in the U.S. may be released simultaneously in
international territories or generally up to four months later.      The Company incurs significant marketing and advertising
costs before and throughout the theatrical release of a film in an effort to generate public awareness of the film, to increase the public s intent to view the film and to help generate consumer interest in the subsequent home entertainment and
other ancillary markets. These costs are expensed as incurred; therefore, we typically incur losses on a film in the theatrical markets, including in periods prior to the theatrical release of the film.   
   Home Entertainment Market       In the domestic market, we distribute home entertainment releases directly under each of our motion picture banners. In the international market, we distribute home entertainment releases under each of
our motion picture banners both directly and through independent foreign distribution companies. In addition, we acquire and produce original content for direct-to-video release.   
  Domestic and international home entertainment distribution typically starts three to six months after the theatrical release in each
market. The home entertainment releases may be distributed in both physical (DVD and Blu-Ray) and electronic versions. Most titles are sold simultaneously to retailers, such as Wal-Mart and Best Buy, and also Redbox and Netflix.   
  As of October 1, 2011, we had approximately 1,700 active produced and acquired titles, including 1,300 live-action titles and 400
animated titles, in the domestic home entertainment marketplace and approximately 2,900 active produced and acquired titles, including 2,400 live-action titles and 500 animated titles, in the international marketplace.   
   Television Market    
   Pay-Per-View (PPV)/Video-on-Demand (VOD):  Concurrently with, or up to two months after, home entertainment distribution begins, we
license titles for use on a PPV/VOD basis, as well as for internet, console games, and mobile platforms. PPV/VOD services deliver one-time rentals electronically to consumers at a price comparable to that of physical media rentals.   
   Pay Television (Pay 1):  There are generally two pay television windows. The first window is generally sixteen months in duration
and follows the PPV/VOD window. The Company has licensed exclusive domestic pay television rights to substantially all films released under the Walt Disney Pictures, Pixar, and Touchstone Pictures banners to the Starz pay television service through
fiscal 2016. DreamWorks titles distributed by the Company are licensed to Showtime under a separate agreement.      
   Free Television (Free 1):  The Pay 1 window is followed by a television window with telecasts accessible to consumers without
charge. This free window may last up to 84 months. Motion pictures are usually sold in the Free 1 window on an ad-hoc basis to major networks, including the ABC Television Network, and basic cable services.   
   Pay Television 2 (Pay 2) and Free Television 2 (Free 2):  In the U.S., Free 1 is generally followed by a fourteen-month Pay 2
window under our license arrangements with Starz and Showtime, and finally by a Free 2 window. Major packages of the Company s feature films have been licensed for broadcast under multi-year agreements within the Free 2 window. The Free 2
window is a syndication window where films are licensed both to basic cable networks and to third-party television station groups.       International Television:  The Company also licenses its theatrical properties outside of the U.S. The typical windowing sequence is broadly consistent with the domestic cycle such that titles
premiere on television in PPV/VOD then air in pay TV before airing in free TV. Windowing strategies are developed in response to local market practices and conditions, and the exact sequence and length of each window can vary country by country.
  
         13   

Table of Contents  

    Disney Music Group       The Disney Music Group includes Walt Disney Records, Hollywood Records (including the Mammoth Records and Buena Vista Records labels), Lyric Street Records, Buena Vista Concerts and Disney Music
Publishing.      Walt Disney Records produces and distributes compact discs and music DVDs in the United States and licenses our
music properties throughout the rest of the world. Music categories include infant, children s read-along, teens, all-family and soundtracks from film and television series distributed by Walt Disney Pictures and Disney Channel. Hollywood
Records develops, produces and markets recordings from talent across a spectrum of popular music.      The Music Group commissions
new music for the Company s motion picture and television programs, records the songs and licenses the song copyrights to others for printed music, records, audio-visual devices, public performances and digital distribution. Buena Vista
Concerts produces live-entertainment events with artists signed to the Disney Music Group record labels.      Disney Music
Publishing controls the copyrights of thousands of musical compositions derived from the Company s motion picture, television, record and theme park properties, as well as musical compositions written by songwriters under exclusive contract. It
is responsible for the management, protection, and licensing of the Disney song catalog on a worldwide basis.       Disney Theatrical
Productions       Disney Theatrical Productions develops, produces and licenses live entertainment events.
The Company has produced and licensed Broadway musicals around the world, including  Beauty and the Beast, The Lion King , Elton John   Tim Rice s  Aida ,  Mary Poppins  (a co-production with Cameron Mackintosh Ltd), and
 TARZAN      . Other stage musical ventures have included an Off-Broadway production of  Peter and the
Starcatcher  and, most recently, stage adaptations of the films  Aladdin  and  Newsies.  In addition, the Company licenses musicals for local school and community theatre productions.   
  Disney Theatrical Productions also delivers live shows globally through its license to Feld Entertainment, producer of  Disney On Ice
 and  Disney Live!. Disney On Ice  s newest ice shows,  Dare to Dream  and  Treasure Trove,  launched in September and October 2011, respectively, for North America tours and  Phineas and Ferb: The Greatest Live Tour
Ever , the latest from  Disney Live!,  was launched in August 2011.       Competition and Seasonality    
  The Studio Entertainment businesses compete with all forms of entertainment. A significant number of companies produce and/or distribute
theatrical and television films, exploit products in the home entertainment market, provide pay television programming services and sponsor live theater. We also compete to obtain creative and performing talents, story properties, advertiser support
and broadcast rights that are essential to the success of our Studio Entertainment businesses.      The success of Studio
Entertainment operations is heavily dependent upon public taste and preferences. In addition, Studio Entertainment operating results fluctuate due to the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television
markets. Release dates are determined by several factors, including competition and the timing of vacation and holiday periods.       CONSUMER
PRODUCTS       The Consumer Products segment engages with licensees, manufacturers, publishers and retailers throughout the
world to design, develop, publish, promote and sell a wide variety of products based on existing and new characters and other Company intellectual property through its Merchandise Licensing, Publishing and Retail businesses. In addition to
leveraging the Company s film and television properties, Consumer Products also develops new intellectual property with the potential of also being used in the Company s other businesses and operates an English language learning business
(Disney English).   
         14   

Table of Contents  

    Merchandise Licensing       The Company s worldwide merchandise licensing operations include a diverse range of product categories, the most significant of which are: toys, apparel, home d cor and furnishings,
stationery, accessories, health and beauty, food, footwear, and consumer electronics. The Company licenses characters from its film, television and other properties and earns royalties, which are usually based on a fixed percentage of the wholesale
or retail selling price of the products. Some of the major properties licensed by the Company include  Mickey Mouse, Cars, Disney Princess, Winnie the Pooh, Toy Story, Disney Fairies,  and the Marvel properties including  Spider-Man, Captain
America,  and  Iron Man . The Company also designs individual products and creates exclusive themed and seasonal promotional campaigns for retailers based on characters, movies and TV shows.   
   Publishing       Disney
Publishing Worldwide (DPW) publishes children s books and magazines in multiple countries and languages. DPW businesses include: Juvenile Publishing, Digital Publishing, and Disney English. The Juvenile Publishing group creates, distributes and
licenses children s books and magazines globally in support of the Company s Disney-, Pixar- and Marvel-branded franchises. Digital Publishing offers content on digital devices through its growing library of e-books and apps,
including apps such as Disney Princess Dress-Up: My Sticker Book and Cars 2: World Grand Prix Read and Race. Disney English operates 28 English language learning centers across China.   
  Marvel Publishing creates and publishes comic books, and graphic novel collections of comic books, principally in North
America. Marvel Publishing also licenses the right to publish translated versions of our comic books, principally in Europe and Latin America. Titles include  X-Men ,  Spider-man ,  Captain America ,  Iron Man ,
 Thor ,  The Avengers  and the  Incredible Hulk . Marvel Publishing also generates revenues from the digital distribution of its comic books.       Retail       The Company markets Disney-themed products directly through retail
stores operated under the Disney Store name and through internet sites in North America (DisneyStore.com and DisneyOutlet.com), Western Europe, and Japan. The stores, which are generally located in leading shopping malls and other retail complexes,
carry a wide variety of Disney merchandise and promote other businesses of the Company. The Company currently owns and operates 208 stores in North America, 103 stores in Europe, and 46 stores in Japan.   
   Competition and Seasonality       The Company s merchandise licensing, publishing and retail businesses compete with other licensors, publishers and retailers of character, brand and celebrity names. Based on independent surveys, we
believe the Company is the largest worldwide licensor of character-based merchandise based on retail sales. Operating results for the licensing and retail businesses are influenced by seasonal consumer purchasing behavior and by the timing and
performance of animated theatrical releases and cable programming broadcasts.       INTERACTIVE MEDIA    
  The Interactive Media Group creates and delivers branded entertainment and lifestyle content across interactive media platforms. The
primary operating businesses of the Interactive Media Group are Games which produces multi-platform games for global distribution, and Online, which produces internet websites in the United States and internationally. The Interactive Media Group
derives revenues from a combination of wholesale sales, licensing, advertising, sponsorships, subscription services and online game accessories (micro transactions). The Interactive Media Group also manages the Company s Disney-branded mobile
phone business in Japan which provides mobile phone service and content to consumers.       Games    
  The Games business creates, develops, markets and distributes console and handheld, games worldwide based on properties created elsewhere
in the Company, including 2011 titles such as  LEGO Pirates of the Caribbean , and  Cars 2 , as well as new game properties such as  Epic Mickey.  The Games business also produces online games, such as Disney s Club Penguin and
Disney Fairies Pixie Hollow, interactive games for social networking websites such as  Gardens of Time,  and games for smartphone platforms. Certain properties are also licensed to third-party video game publishers.   
      On August 27, 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of Playdom, Inc., a company that develops and publishes online
games for social networking websites.   
         15   

Table of Contents  

    Online       Online develops, publishes and distributes content for branded online services intended for family entertainment. Disney Online produces kids and family-targeted entertainment through a portfolio of
websites including Disney.com and the Disney Family Network. Disney.com integrates many of the Company s Disney-branded internet sites including sites for the Disney Channel, Disney Parks and Resorts, Walt Disney Pictures and Disney Consumer
Products.       Competition and Seasonality       The Company s online sites and products compete with a wide variety of other online sites and products. The Company s video game business competes primarily with other publishers of video game
software and other types of home entertainment. Operating results for the video game business fluctuate due to the timing and performance of video game releases, which are determined by several factors including theatrical releases and cable
programming broadcasts, competition and the timing of holiday periods. Revenues from certain of the Company s online and mobile operations are subject to similar seasonal trends.       INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION       The Company s businesses throughout
the world are affected by its ability to exploit and protect against infringement of its intellectual property, including trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and trade secrets. Important intellectual property includes rights in the content
of motion pictures, television programs, electronic games, sound recordings, character likenesses, theme park attractions, books and magazines. Risks related to the protection and exploitation of intellectual property rights are set forth in
Item 1A   Risk Factors.       AVAILABLE INFORMATION       Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available without charge on our website, www.disney.com/investors, as soon
as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. We are providing the address to our internet site solely for the information of investors. We do not intend the address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate the
contents of the website into this report.       

ITEM 1A.   
   Risk Factors         For an
enterprise as large and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of
these operations and the financial results of these operations elsewhere in this report, the most significant factors affecting our operations include the following:       Changes in U.S., global, or regional economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of some or all of our businesses.    
  A decline in economic activity in the United States and other regions of the world in which we do business can adversely affect demand
for any of our businesses, thus reducing our revenue and earnings. The most recent decline in economic conditions reduced spending at our parks and resorts, purchase of and prices for advertising on our broadcast and cable networks and owned
stations, performance of our home entertainment releases, and purchases of Company-branded consumer products, and similar impacts can be expected should such conditions recur. A decline in economic conditions could also reduce attendance at our
parks and resorts or prices that MVSPs pay for our cable programming. Recent instability in European economies presents risks of similar impacts in our European operations. Economic conditions can also impair the ability of those with whom we do
business to satisfy their obligations to us. In addition, an increase in price levels generally, or in price levels in a particular sector such as the energy sector, could result in a shift in consumer demand away from the entertainment and consumer
products we offer, which could also adversely affect our revenues and, at the same time, increase our costs. Changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies may reduce international demand for our products, increase our labor or supply costs in
non-United States markets, or reduce the United States dollar value of revenue we receive from other markets.   
         16   

Table of Contents  

    Changes in public and consumer tastes and preferences for entertainment and consumer products could
reduce demand for our entertainment offerings and products and adversely affect the profitability of any of our businesses.    
  Our businesses create entertainment, travel or consumer products whose success depends substantially on consumer tastes and preferences
that change in often unpredictable ways. The success of our businesses depends on our ability to consistently create and distribute filmed entertainment, broadcast and cable programming, online material, electronic games, theme park attractions,
hotels and other resort facilities and travel experiences and consumer products that meet the changing preferences of the broad consumer market. Many of our businesses increasingly depend on acceptance of our offerings and products by consumers
outside the United States, and their success therefore depends on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences outside as well as inside the United States. Moreover, we must often invest substantial
amounts in film production, broadcast and cable programming, electronic games, theme park attractions, cruise ships or hotels and other resort facilities before we learn the extent to which these products will earn consumer acceptance. If our
entertainment offerings and products do not achieve sufficient consumer acceptance, our revenue from advertising sales (which are based in part on ratings for the programs in which advertisements air) or subscription fees for broadcast and cable
programming and online services, from theatrical film receipts or home video or electronic game sales, from theme park admissions, hotel room charges and merchandise, food and beverage sales, from sales of licensed consumer products or from sales of
our other consumer products and services may decline or fail to grow to the extent we anticipate when making investment decisions and thereby adversely affect the profitability of one or more of our businesses.   
   Changes in technology and in consumer consumption patterns may affect demand for our entertainment products or the cost of producing or distributing
products.       The media entertainment and internet businesses in which we participate depend significantly on our ability to
acquire, develop, adopt and exploit new technologies to distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors. In addition, new technologies affect the demand for our products, the time and manner in which consumers acquire and view
some of our entertainment products and the options available to advertisers for reaching their desired markets. For example, the success of our offerings in the home entertainment market depends in part on consumer preferences with respect to home
entertainment formats, including DVD players and personal video recorders, as well as the availability of alternative home entertainment offerings and technologies, including web-based delivery of entertainment offerings. In addition, technological
developments offer consumers an expanding array of entertainment options and delivery vehicles which may include options we have not yet fully developed, or options we have developed but which entail a smaller return than we realize on traditional
options. As a result, the income from our entertainment offerings may decline or increase at slower rates than our historical experience or our expectations when we make investments in products.   
   The success of our businesses is highly dependent on the existence and maintenance of intellectual property rights in the entertainment products and
services we create.       The value to us of our intellectual property rights is dependent on the scope and duration of our
rights as defined by applicable laws in the United States and abroad and the manner in which those laws are construed. If those laws are drafted or interpreted in ways that limit the extent or duration of our rights, or if existing laws are changed,
our ability to generate revenue from our intellectual property may decrease, or the cost of obtaining and maintaining rights may increase.      The unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights may increase the cost of protecting these rights or reduce our revenues. New technologies such as the convergence of computing, communication, and
entertainment devices, the falling prices of devices incorporating such technologies, and increased broadband internet speed and penetration have made the unauthorized digital copying and distribution of our films, television productions and other
creative works easier and faster and enforcement of intellectual property rights more challenging. There is evidence that unauthorized use of intellectual property rights in the entertainment industry generally is a significant and rapidly growing
phenomenon. Inadequate laws or weak enforcement mechanisms to protect intellectual property in one country can adversely affect the results of the Company s operations worldwide, despite the Company s efforts to protect its intellectual
property rights. These developments require us to devote substantial resources to protecting our intellectual property against unlicensed use and present the risk of increased losses of revenue as a result of unlicensed digital distribution of our
content and sales of unauthorized DVDs, Blu-ray discs and other products.      With respect to intellectual property developed by
the Company and rights acquired by the Company from others, the Company is subject to the risk of challenges to our rights in intellectual property by third parties. Successful challenges to our rights in intellectual property may result in
increased costs for obtaining rights or the loss of the opportunity to earn revenue from the intellectual property that is the subject of challenged rights. The Company is not aware of any challenges to its intellectual property rights that it
currently foresees having a material effect on its operations.         
         17   

Table of Contents  

    Protection of electronically stored data is costly and if our data is compromised in spite of this
protection, we may incur additional costs, lost opportunities and damage to our reputation.       We maintain information
necessary to conduct our business, including confidential and proprietary information as well as personal information regarding our customers and employees, in digital form. Data maintained in digital form is subject to the risk of intrusion,
tampering and theft. We develop and maintain systems to prevent this from occurring, but the development and maintenance of these systems is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security
measures become more sophisticated. Moreover, despite our efforts, the possibility of intrusion tampering and theft cannot be eliminated entirely, and risks associated with each of these remain. In addition, we provide confidential, proprietary and
personal information to third parties when it is necessary to pursue business objectives. While we obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information and, where appropriate, monitor the protections employed by these third
parties, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties may be compromised. If our data systems are compromised, our ability to conduct our business may be impaired, we may lose profitable opportunities or the value of those
opportunities may be diminished and, as described above, we may lose revenue as a result of unlicensed use of our intellectual property. If personal information of our customers or employees is misappropriated, our reputation with our customers and
employees may be injured resulting in loss of business or morale, and we may incur costs to remediate possible injury to our customers and employees or to pay fines or take other action with respect to judicial or regulatory actions arising out of
the incident.       A variety of uncontrollable events may reduce demand for our products and services, impair our ability to provide our
products and services or increase the cost of providing our products and services.       Demand for our products and services,
particularly our theme parks and resorts, is highly dependent on the general environment for travel and tourism. The environment for travel and tourism, as well as demand for other entertainment products, can be significantly adversely affected in
the United States, globally or in specific regions as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including: adverse weather conditions arising from short-term weather patterns or long-term change or natural disasters (such as excessive
heat or rain, hurricanes and earthquakes); health concerns; international, political or military developments; and terrorist attacks. For example, the earthquake and tsunami in Japan in March 2011 resulted in a period of suspension of our operations
and those of certain of our licensees in Japan, including Tokyo Disney Resort and resulted in a loss of revenue from those operations. These events and others, such as fluctuations in travel and energy costs and computer virus attacks, intrusions or
other widespread computing or telecommunications failures, may also damage our ability to provide our products and services or to obtain insurance coverage with respect to these events. In addition, we derive royalties from the sales of our licensed
goods and services by third parties and the management of businesses operated under brands licensed from the Company, and we are therefore dependent on the successes of those third parties for that portion of our revenue. A wide variety of factors
could influence the success of those third parties and if negative factors significantly impacted a sufficient number of our licensees, that could adversely affect the profitability of one or more of our businesses. We obtain insurance against the
risk of losses relating to some of these events, generally including physical damage to our property and resulting business interruption, certain injuries occurring on our property and liability for alleged breach of legal responsibilities. When
insurance is obtained it is subject to deductibles, exclusions and limits of liability. The types and levels of coverage we obtain vary from time to time depending on our view of the likelihood of specific types and levels of loss in relation to the
cost of obtaining coverage for such types and levels of loss.       Changes in our business strategy or restructuring of our businesses may
increase our costs or otherwise affect the profitability of our businesses.       As changes in our business environment occur
we may need to adjust our business strategies to meet these changes or we may otherwise find it necessary to restructure our operations or particular businesses or assets. In addition, external events including acceptance of our theatrical offerings
and changes in macro-economic conditions may impair the value of our assets. When these changes or events occur, we may incur costs to change our business strategy and may need to write down the value of assets. We also make investments in existing
or new businesses, including investments in international expansion of our business and in new business lines. In recent years, such investments have included investments in new cruise ships, expansion and repurposing of certain of our theme park
attractions, and development of a resort facility in Hawaii. In addition, a joint venture in which we participate recently began construction of a theme park in Shanghai, China. Some of these investments may have short-term returns that are negative
or low and the ultimate business prospects of the businesses may be uncertain. In any of these events, our costs may increase, we may have significant charges associated with the write-down of assets or returns on new investments may be lower than
prior to the change in strategy or restructuring.   
         18   

Table of Contents  

    Turmoil in the financial markets could increase our cost of borrowing and impede access to or increase
the cost of financing our operations and investments.       Past disruptions in the U.S. and global credit and equity markets
made it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. In addition, equity markets have recently experienced rapid and wide fluctuations in value. These conditions tended to increase the cost of borrowing and if they recur,
our cost of borrowing could increase and it may be more difficult to obtain financing for our operations or investments. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies
which are based, in significant part, on the Company s performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings would likely increase our cost of borrowing and/or make it more
difficult for us to obtain financing. Past disruptions in the global financial markets also impacted some of the financial institutions with which we do business. A similar decline in the financial stability of financial institutions could affect
our ability to secure credit-worthy counterparties for our interest rate and foreign currency hedging programs and could affect our ability to settle existing contracts.       Increased competitive pressures may reduce our revenues or increase our costs.       We face substantial competition in each of our businesses from alternative providers of the products and services we offer and from other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational
activities. We also must compete to obtain human resources, programming and other resources we require in operating our business. For example:       

Our broadcast and cable networks, stations and online offerings compete for viewers with other broadcast, cable and satellite services as well as with
home video products and internet usage.          

Our broadcast and cable networks and stations compete for the sale of advertising time with other broadcast, cable and satellite services, and the
internet, as well as with newspapers, magazines and billboards.          

Our cable networks compete for carriage of their programming with other programming providers.      

Our broadcast and cable networks compete for the acquisition of creative talent and sports and other programming with other broadcast and cable
networks.          

Our theme parks and resorts compete for guests with all other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreation activities.

Our studio operations compete for customers with all other forms of entertainment.      

Our studio operations, broadcast and cable networks and publishing businesses compete to obtain creative and performing talent, story properties,
advertiser support, broadcast rights and market share.          

Our consumer products segment competes in the character merchandising and other licensing, publishing, and retail activities with other licensors,
publishers and retailers of character, brand and celebrity names.          

Our interactive game operations compete with other publishers of console, online and mobile games and other types of home entertainment.
        Competition in each of these areas may divert consumers from our creative or other products, or to other
products or other forms of entertainment, which could reduce our revenue or increase our marketing costs. Such competition may also reduce, or limit growth in, prices for our products and services, including advertising rates and subscription fees
at our media networks, parks and resorts admissions and room rates, and prices for consumer products from which we derive license revenues. Competition for the acquisition of resources can increase the cost of producing our products and services.
  
         19   

Table of Contents  

    Sustained increases in costs of pension and postretirement medical and other employee health and welfare
benefits may reduce our profitability.       With approximately 156,000 employees, our profitability is substantially affected
by costs of pension benefits and current and postretirement medical benefits. We may experience significant increases in these costs as a result of macro-economic factors, which are beyond our control, including increases in the cost of health care.
In addition, changes in investment returns and discount rates used to calculate pension expense and related assets and liabilities can be volatile and may have an unfavorable impact on our costs in some years. These macro-economic factors as well as
a decline in the fair value of pension and post retirement medical plan assets may put upward pressure on the cost of providing pension and post retirement medical benefits and may increase future funding contributions. Although we have actively
sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure could reduce the profitability of our businesses.   
   Our results may be adversely affected if long-term programming or carriage contracts are not renewed on sufficiently favorable terms.    
  We enter into long-term contracts for both the acquisition and the distribution of media programming and products, including contracts
for the acquisition of programming rights for sporting events and other programs, and contracts for the distribution of our programming to MVSPs. As these contracts expire, we must renew or renegotiate the contracts, and if we are unable to renew
them on acceptable terms, we may lose programming rights or distribution rights. Even if these contracts are renewed, the cost of obtaining programming rights may increase (or increase at faster rates than our historical experience) or the revenue
from distribution of programs may be reduced (or increase at slower rates than our historical experience). With respect to the acquisition of programming rights, particularly sports programming rights, the impact of these long-term contracts on our
results over the term of the contracts depends on a number of factors, including the strength of advertising markets, effectiveness of marketing efforts and the size of viewer audiences. There can be no assurance that revenues from programming based
on these rights will exceed the cost of the rights plus the other costs of producing and distributing the programming.       Changes in
regulations applicable to our businesses may impair the profitability of our businesses.       Our broadcast networks and
television stations are highly regulated, and each of our other businesses is subject to a variety of United States and overseas regulations. These regulations include:   

United States FCC regulation of our television and radio networks, our national programming networks, and our owned television stations. See
Item 1   Business   Media Networks, Federal Regulation.          

Environmental protection regulations.          

Federal, state and foreign privacy and data protection laws and regulations.      

Regulation of the safety of consumer products and theme park operations.      

Imposition by foreign countries of trade restrictions, currency exchange controls or motion picture or television content requirements or quotas.

Domestic and international tax laws or currency controls.         Changes in any of these regulatory areas may require us to spend additional amounts to comply with the regulations, or may restrict our ability to offer products and services that are profitable.
      Our operations outside the United States may be adversely affected by the operation of laws in those jurisdictions.    
  Our operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate rather than
United States law. Laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the United States, and these differences can affect our ability to react to changes in our business and our rights or ability to enforce rights may be
different than would be expected under United States law. Moreover, enforcement of laws in some overseas jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both our ability to enforce our rights and to undertake activities that we
believe are beneficial to our business. As a result, our ability to generate revenue and our expenses in non-United States jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if United States law governed these operations.   
         20   

Table of Contents  

    Labor disputes may disrupt our operations and adversely affect the profitability of any of our
businesses.       A significant number of employees in various of our businesses are covered by collective bargaining
agreements, including employees of our theme parks and resorts as well as writers, directors, actors, production personnel and others employed in our media networks and studio operations. In addition, the employees of licensees who manufacture and
retailers who sell our consumer products, and employees of providers of programming content (such as sports leagues) may be covered by labor agreements with their employers. In general, a labor dispute involving our employees or the employees of our
licensees or retailers who sell our consumer products or providers of programming content may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and resolution of disputes may increase our costs.   
   Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware state law could delay or prevent a change of control, even if that change would be beneficial to
shareholders.       Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains a provision regulating the ability of shareholders to
bring matters for action before annual and special meetings and authorizes our Board of Directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. The regulations on shareholder action could make it more difficult for any person seeking to acquire
control of the Company to obtain shareholder approval of actions that would support this effort. The issuance of preferred stock could effectively dilute the interests of any person seeking control or otherwise make it more difficult to obtain
control. In addition, provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation require supermajority shareholder approval of some acquisition transactions and we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law,
either of which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control in some circumstances.       The seasonality of certain of
our businesses could exacerbate negative impacts on our operations.       Each of our businesses is normally subject to
seasonal variations, as follows:       

Revenues in our Media Networks segment are subject to seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels. In general, advertising revenues
are somewhat higher during the fall and somewhat lower during the summer months. Affiliate revenues are typically collected ratably throughout the year. Certain affiliate revenues at ESPN are deferred until annual programming commitments are met,
and these commitments are typically satisfied during the second half of the Company s fiscal year, which generally results in higher revenue recognition during this period.      

Revenues in our Parks and Resorts segment fluctuate with changes in theme park attendance and resort occupancy resulting from the seasonal nature of
vacation travel and local entertainment excursions. Peak attendance and resort occupancy generally occur during the summer months when school vacations occur and during early-winter and spring-holiday periods.      

Revenues in our Studio Entertainment segment fluctuate due to the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment, and
television markets. Release dates are determined by several factors, including competition and the timing of vacation and holiday periods.          

Revenues in our Consumer Products segment are influenced by seasonal consumer purchasing behavior and by the timing and performance of theatrical
releases and cable programming broadcasts.          

Revenues in our Interactive Media segment fluctuate due to the timing and performance of video game releases which are determined by several factors,
including theatrical releases and cable programming broadcasts, competition and the timing of holiday periods. Revenues from certain of our internet and mobile operations are subject to similar seasonal trends.      
  Accordingly, if a short term negative impact on our business occurs during a time of high seasonal demand (such as hurricane damage to
our parks during the summer travel season), the effect could have a disproportionate effect on the results of that business for the year.        
 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments       The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or
current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2011 fiscal year and that remain unresolved.   
         21   

Table of Contents  

      ITEM 2. Properties    
  The Walt Disney World Resort, Disneyland Resort and other properties of the Company and its subsidiaries are described in Item 1
under the caption  Parks and Resorts . Film library properties are described in Item 1 under the caption  Studio Entertainment . Television stations owned by the Company are described under the caption  Media Networks .
     The Company and its subsidiaries own and lease properties throughout the world. In addition to the properties noted above,
the table below provides a brief description of other significant properties and the related business segment.       

Location    
      
     Property /   
   Approximate Size    
      
     Use    
        
     Business Segment  (1)         

Burbank, CA   
      
  Land (52 acres)   Buildings (2,000,000
ft   2   )  
      
  Owned Office/Production/Warehouse  
        
  Corp/Studio/Media/CP   

Burbank, CA   surrounding cities    (2)      
      
  Buildings (1,900,000 ft   2    )  
      
  Leased Office/Warehouse (includes 8,000
ft   2    sublet to third party tenants)  
        
  Corp/Studio/Media/CP/IMG   

Glendale, CA   North Hollywood, CA   
      
  Land (148 acres)   Buildings (2,500,000
ft   2   )  
      
  Owned Office/Warehouse (includes 500,000
ft   2    sublet to third party tenants)  
        
  Corp/Studio/Media/CP/P R/IMG   

Glendale, CA   
      
  Buildings (160,000 ft   2   )  
      
  Leased Office/Warehouse  
        
  Corp   

Los Angeles, CA   
      
  Land (22 acres)   Buildings (600,000
ft   2    )  
      
  Owned Office/Production/Technical  
        
  Media   

Los Angeles, CA   
      
  Buildings (315,000 ft   2    )  
      
  Leased Office/Production/Technical  
        
  Media/Studio/IMG   

New York, NY   
      
  Land (6.5 acres)   Buildings (1,400,000
ft   2    )  
      
  Owned Office/Production/Technical (includes 16,000
ft   2    sublet to third party tenants)  
        
  Media   

New York, NY   
      
  Buildings (570,000 ft   2    )  
      
  Leased Office/Production/Warehouse (includes 14,000
ft   2    sublet to third party tenants)  
        
  Studio/Media /IMG   

Bristol, CT   
      
  Land (115 acres)   Buildings (720,000
ft   2    )  
      
  Owned Office/Production/Technical  
        
  Media   

Bristol, CT   
      
  Buildings (465,000 ft   2    )  
      
  Leased Office/Warehouse/Technical  
        
  Media   

Emeryville, CA   
      
  Land (20 acres)   Buildings (420,000 ft   2
   )  
      
  Owned Office/Production/Technical  
        
  Studio   

Emeryville, CA   
      
  Buildings (60,000 ft   2    )  
      
  Leased Office/Storage  
        
  Studio   

USA   Canada   
      
  Land and Buildings (Multiple sites and sizes)  
      
  Owned and Leased Office/ Production/Transmitter/Retail/ Warehouse  
        
  Corp/Studio/Media/CP/ P R/IMG   

Hammersmith, England   
      
  Land (1 acre)   Building (85,000 ft   2    )  
      
  Owned Office  
        
  Corp/Studio/Media/CP/IMG   

Hammersmith, England   
      
  Building (225,000 ft   2    )  
      
  Leased Office (includes 27,000 ft   2    sublet to third party tenants)  
        
  Corp/Studio/Media/CP/IMG   

Europe, Asia, Australia   Latin America   
      
  Buildings (Multiple sites and sizes)  
      
  Leased Office/Retail/Warehouse/Production  
        
  Corp/Studio/Media/CP/IMG   

(1)   
        Corp  
Corporate, CP   Consumer Products, P R   Parks and Resorts and IMG   Interactive Media Group      

(2)   
        Surrounding cities
include North Hollywood, CA and Sun Valley, CA      
         22   

Table of Contents  

      ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings    
   Celador International Ltd. v. American Broadcasting Companies, Inc.  On May 19, 2004, an affiliate of the creator and
licensor of the television program,   Who Wants to be a Millionaire,   filed an action against the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, including American Broadcasting Companies, Inc. and Buena Vista Television, LLC, alleging it
was damaged by defendants improperly engaging in certain intra-company transactions and charging merchandise distribution expenses, resulting in an underpayment to the plaintiff. On July 7, 2010, the jury returned a verdict for breach of
contract against certain subsidiaries of the Company, awarding plaintiff damages of $269.4 million. The Company has stipulated with the plaintiff to an award of prejudgment interest of $50 million, which amount will be reduced pro rata
should the Court of Appeals reduce the damages amount. On December 21, 2010, the Company s alternative motions for a new trial and for judgment as a matter of law were denied. Although we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this
lawsuit, the Company believes the jury s verdict is in error and is vigorously pursuing its position on appeal, notice of which was filed by the Company on January 14, 2011. On or about January 28, 2011, plaintiff filed a notice of
cross-appeal. The Company has determined that it does not have a probable loss under the applicable accounting standard relating to probability of loss for recording a reserve with respect to this litigation and therefore has not recorded a reserve.
     The Company, together with, in some instances, certain of its directors and officers, is a defendant or codefendant in
various other legal actions involving copyright, breach of contract and various other claims incident to the conduct of its businesses. Management does not expect the Company to suffer any material liability by reason of these actions.   
     Executive Officers of the Company       The executive officers of the Company are elected each year at the organizational meeting of the Board of Directors, which follows the annual meeting of the shareholders, and at other Board of Directors
meetings, as appropriate. Each of the executive officers has been employed by the Company in the position or positions indicated in the list and pertinent notes below. Except as noted, each of the executive officers has been employed by the Company
for more than five years.      At October 1, 2011, the executive officers of the Company were as follows:   

Name   
      
  Age  

Title   
      
  Executive   Officer Since   

Robert A. Iger   

60  

President and Chief Executive
Officer   (1)     
      
  2000   
 
    James A. Rasulo   

55  

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief     Financial Officer    (2)      
      
  2010   
 
    Alan N. Braverman   

63  

Senior Executive Vice President, General     Counsel and Secretary   
      
  2003   
 
    Kevin A. Mayer   

49  

Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Business Development   (3)     
      
  2005   
 
    Christine M. McCarthy   

56  

Executive Vice President, Corporate Finance,     Corporate Real Estate, Sourcing, Alliance and Treasurer   (4)      
      
  2005   
 
    Mary Jayne Parker   

50  

Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer   (      5      )     
      
  2009   

(1)      
    Mr. Iger was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer effective October 2, 2005. On October 6, 2011, the Company entered into an
amended and restated employment agreement with Mr. Iger pursuant to which Mr. Iger will become Chairman and Chief Executive Officer effective upon retirement of John Pepper, the current Chairman of the Board, at the time of the
Company s 2012 annual shareholder meeting.          

(      3      )      
    Mr. Mayer was named Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Business Development and Technology of the Company in June 2005 and was
designated an executive officer in October 2005.          

(4)   
        Ms. McCarthy
was named Executive Vice President, Corporate Finance and Real Estate in June 2005 and has been Treasurer since January 2000.          

(5)   
        Ms. Parker
was named Executive Vice President   Human Resources and Chief Human Resources Officer of the Company, effective September 1, 2009, and designated an executive officer of the Company October 2, 2009. Ms. Parker was previously
Senior Vice President of Human Resources for Walt Disney Parks and Resorts from October 2005 to July 2007 and Vice President Human Resources Administration for Walt Disney Parks and Resorts from March 2003 to October 2005.
     
         23   

Table of Contents  

    PART II          ITEM 5. Market for the Company s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
  The Company s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol  DIS . The following table
shows, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per share of common stock as reported in the Bloomberg Financial markets services.       
    The Company declared a $0.40 per share dividend ($756 million) on December 1, 2010 related to fiscal
2010, which was paid in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. The Board of Directors has not declared a dividend related to fiscal 2011 as of the date of this report.      As of October 1, 2011, the approximate number of common shareholders of record was 994,425.      The following table provides information about Company purchases of equity securities that are registered by the Company pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act during the quarter ended
October 1, 2011:       

(1)      
    304,485 shares were purchased on the open market to provide shares to participants in the Walt Disney Investment Plan (WDIP) and Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (ESPP). These purchases were not made pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan or program.          

(2)      
    Under a share repurchase program implemented effective June 10, 1998, the Company is authorized to repurchase shares of its common stock. On
March 22, 2011, the Company s Board of Directors increased the repurchase authorization to a total of 400 million shares as of that date. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date.      
         24   

Table of Contents  

      ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data    
  (in millions, except per share data)       

(1)      
    The fiscal 2011 results include restructuring and impairment charges that rounded to $0.00 per diluted share and gains on the sales of Miramax and BASS
($0.02 per diluted share) which collectively resulted in a net adverse impact of $0.02 per diluted share. See the discussion of the per share impacts in Item 7.      

(      2      )      
    During fiscal 2010, the Company completed a cash and stock acquisition for the outstanding capital stock of Marvel for $4.2 billion (see Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). In addition, results include restructuring and impairment charges ($0.09 per diluted share), gains on the sales of investments in two television services in Europe ($0.02 per diluted share),
a gain on the sale of the  Power Rangers  property ($0.01 per diluted share), and an accounting gain related to the acquisition of The Disney Store Japan ($0.01 per diluted share). Including the impact of rounding, these items collectively
resulted in a net adverse impact of $0.04 per diluted share.      

(      3      )      
    The fiscal 2009 results include restructuring and impairment charges ($0.17 per diluted share), a non-cash gain in connection with the AETN/Lifetime
merger ($0.08 per diluted share) and a gain on the sale of our investment in two pay television services in Latin America ($0.04 per diluted share). Including the impact of rounding, these items collectively resulted in a net adverse impact of $0.06
per diluted share.      

(      4      )      
    The fiscal 2008 results include an accounting gain related to the acquisition of the Disney Stores North America and a gain on the sale of movies.com
(together $0.01 per diluted share), the favorable resolution of certain income tax matters ($0.03 per diluted share), a bad debt charge for a receivable from Lehman Brothers ($0.03 per diluted share) and an impairment charge ($0.01 per diluted
share). These items collectively had no net impact on earnings per share.      

(      5      )      
    During fiscal 2007, the Company concluded the spin-off of the ABC Radio business and thus reports ABC Radio as discontinued operations for all periods
presented.      

(      6      )      
    The fiscal 2007 results include gains from the sales of E! Entertainment and Us Weekly (together $0.31 per diluted share), the favorable resolution of
certain income tax matters ($0.03 per diluted share), an equity-based compensation plan modification charge ($0.01 per diluted share) and an impairment charge ($0.01 per diluted share). These items collectively resulted in a net benefit of $0.32 per
diluted share.      
         25   

Table of Contents  

      ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations       CONSOLIDATED RESULTS      (in millions, except per share data)       
 
         26   

Table of Contents  

    Organization of Information       Management s Discussion and Analysis provides a narrative on the Company s financial performance and condition that should be read in conjunction with the accompanying financial statements. It
includes the following sections:       

Consolidated Results      

Pension and Postretirement Medical Benefit Costs      

Liquidity and Capital Resources      

Contractual Obligations, Commitments, and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements      

Accounting Policies and Estimates      

Accounting Changes      

Forward-Looking Statements      
   CONSOLIDATED RESULTS        2011 vs. 2010
      Revenues for fiscal 2011 increased 7%, or $2.8 billion, to $40.9 billion; net income attributable to Disney increased
21%, or $844 million, to $4.8 billion; and diluted earnings per share attributable to Disney (EPS) increased 24% to $2.52.   
  Net income attributable to Disney for fiscal 2011 included $55 million of restructuring and impairment charges and gains from the sales
of businesses of $75 million. The table below shows the pretax and after tax impact of these items.       
    Restructuring and impairment charges include an impairment of assets that had tax basis significantly in
excess of book value resulting in a $47 million tax benefit on the restructuring and impairment charges. The gains on sales of businesses included the sale of Miramax which had a book value that included $217 million of allocated goodwill which is
not tax deductible. Accordingly, the taxable gain on the sales of businesses exceeded the $75 million book gain resulting in tax expense of $107 million. These items collectively had a $0.02 negative impact on EPS compared to the items in fiscal
2010 that are discussed below which had a net adverse impact of $0.04 on EPS.      The increase in EPS for fiscal 2011 reflected
higher operating results driven by higher revenues from MVSPs (Affiliate Fees) at our Cable Networks, increased guest spending and volumes at our domestic parks and resorts, higher advertising revenue at ESPN, lower film cost write-downs, decreased
programming and production costs at the ABC Television Network, higher licensing revenue due to the strength of  Cars  merchandise and a full-period of results for Marvel, and higher equity income at AETN/Lifetime. These increases were
partially offset by higher costs at ESPN and at our domestic parks and resorts, lower performance at our theatrical business, and the inclusion of a full-period of results for Playdom in the current year, which included the impact of acquisition
accounting.   
         27   

Table of Contents  

    2010 vs. 2009       Revenues for fiscal 2010 increased 5%, or $1.9 billion, to $38.1 billion; net income attributable to Disney increased 20%, or $656 million, to $4.0 billion; and EPS increased 15% to $2.03.   
  Net income attributable to Disney for fiscal 2010 included restructuring and impairment charges ($0.09 per diluted share), gains on the
sales of investments in two television services in Europe ($0.02 per diluted share), a gain on the sale of the  Power Rangers  property ($0.01 per diluted share), and an accounting gain related to the acquisition of The Disney Store Japan
($0.01 per diluted share), which, including the impact of rounding, collectively had a net adverse impact of $0.04 per diluted share. Fiscal 2009 included restructuring and impairment charges ($0.17 per diluted share), a non-cash gain in connection
with the merger of Lifetime and AETN ($0.08 per diluted share) and a gain on the sale of our investment in two pay television services in Latin America ($0.04 per diluted share). Including the impact of rounding, these items collectively resulted in
a net adverse impact of $0.06 per diluted share. Fiscal 2009 results also include an additional week of operations due to our fiscal period end.      The increase in EPS for fiscal 2010 reflected higher operating results due to higher Affiliate Fees at our Cable Networks, increased advertising revenues at our cable and broadcast businesses, the strong
worldwide theatrical performance of  Toy Story 3, Alice in Wonderland  and  Iron Man 2 , and lower distribution and marketing costs at our home entertainment business, partially offset by higher costs at our cable business and at our
domestic parks and resorts operations.       Restructuring and Impairment Charges    
  The Company recorded $55 million of charges in fiscal 2011 reflecting severance and facilities costs related to organizational and cost
structure initiatives primarily at the Studio Entertainment and Interactive Media segments.      The Company recorded $270 million
of charges in fiscal 2010 related to organizational and cost structure initiatives primarily at our Studio Entertainment and Media Networks segments. Restructuring charges of $138 million were primarily for severance and other related costs.
Impairment charges of $132 million consisted of write-offs of capitalized costs primarily related to abandoned film projects, the closure of a studio production facility and the closure of five ESPN Zone locations.   
  The Company recorded charges totaling $492 million in fiscal 2009 which included impairment charges of $279 million and restructuring
costs of $213 million. The most significant of the impairment charges were $142 million related to FCC radio licenses and $65 million related to our investment in UTV. The restructuring charges included severance and other related costs as a result
of organizational and cost structure initiatives across our businesses.       Other Income    
  Other income is as follows (in millions):       

(1)      
    On September 15, 2009, the Company and the Hearst Corporation both contributed their 50% interest in Lifetime to AETN in exchange for an increased
interest in AETN. The transaction resulted in a $228 million non-cash gain. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of this transaction.      
         28   

Table of Contents  

    BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS   2011 vs. 2010    
  Below is a discussion of the major revenue and expense categories for our business segments. Costs and expenses for each segment consist
of operating expenses, selling, general, administrative and other expenses and depreciation and amortization. Selling, general, administrative and other costs include third party and internal marketing expenses.   
  Our Media Networks segment generates revenue from Affiliate Fees charged to MVSPs, advertising revenues from the sale to advertisers of
time in programs for commercial announcements and other revenues which include the sale and distribution of television programming. Operating expenses include programming and production costs, technical support costs, distribution costs and
operating labor.      Our Parks and Resorts segment generates revenue from the sale of admissions to theme parks, the sale of room
nights at hotels, merchandise, food and beverage sales, sales and rentals of vacation club properties and the sale of cruise vacation packages. Operating expenses include labor, costs of sales, repairs and maintenance and entertainment.   
  Our Studio Entertainment segment generates revenue from the distribution of films in the theatrical, home entertainment and television
markets. Operating expenses include film cost amortization, which consists of production cost amortization, participations and residuals, costs of sales and distribution expenses.   
  Our Consumer Products segment generates revenue from licensing characters from our film, television and other properties, publishing
children s books and magazines and comic books, and operating retail stores, English language learning centers and internet shopping sites. Operating expenses include costs of goods sold, distribution, operating labor and retail occupancy
costs.      Our Interactive Media segment generates revenue from the development and sale of multi-platform games, online
advertising and sponsorships, subscriptions to and micro transactions for online games, and content and handset revenue from our Disney-branded mobile phone business in Japan. Certain properties are also licensed to third-party game publishers.
Operating expenses include product development, costs of goods sold and distribution expenses.       
    The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and
management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the overall performance of the operating businesses. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate
changes in the operating results of the Company s portfolio of businesses separate from factors other than business operations that affect net income. The following table reconciles segment operating income to income before income taxes.

29   

Table of Contents  

    Media Networks       Operating results for the Media Networks segment are as follows:       
     
     Revenues       Affiliate Fee growth of 9% was driven by increases of 6% from higher contractual rates, 1% from favorable impacts of foreign currency translation, and 1% from subscriber growth at Cable Networks and an
increase of 1% from Broadcasting due to new contractual provisions.      Higher advertising revenues were due to an increase of
$471 million at Cable Networks from $3,051 million to $3,522 million and an increase of $99 million at Broadcasting from $3,977 million to $4,076 million. The increase at Cable Networks of 14% was due to higher rates. The increase at Broadcasting
reflected increases of 6% due to higher Network advertising rates, primarily at primetime, and 1% due to higher local television advertising, partially offset by a decrease of 4% due to lower Network ratings primarily at primetime and daytime.
     The increase in other revenues was driven by a change in the transfer pricing arrangement between Studio Entertainment and
Media Networks for distribution of Media Networks home entertainment product and higher sales of Disney Channel programming, partially offset by lower sales of ABC Studios productions driven by no new seasons of  Lost  and  Ghost
Whisperer .       Costs and Expenses       Operating expenses include programming and production costs which increased $249 million from $8,453 million to $8,702 million. At Cable Networks, an increase in programming and production spending of
$457 million was driven by higher sports rights costs due to the addition of college football programming including Bowl Championship Series games, increased contractual costs for college and professional sports programming and more episodes of
original programming at the Disney Channels, partially offset by the absence of programming costs for the FIFA World Cup which was broadcast in the prior year. At Broadcasting, programming and production costs decreased $208 million reflecting lower
news and daytime production costs due to cost savings initiatives, a lower cost mix of programming in primetime due to a shift of hours from original scripted programming to reality programming, a shift of college sports programming to ESPN and
lower production cost amortization due to a decrease in sales of ABC Studios productions. Operating expenses also reflected a 2% increase due to a change in the transfer pricing arrangement for distribution of Media Networks home entertainment
product and a 1% increase due to higher labor costs at ESPN due to headcount growth and labor cost inflation.      The increase in
selling, general and administrative and other costs and expenses was driven by higher marketing and sales costs, which included an increase due to the change in transfer pricing arrangement for distribution of Media Networks home entertainment
product and higher marketing costs at ESPN.       Equity in the Income of Investees    
  Income from equity investees increased to $584 million in the current year from $438 million in the prior year driven by an increase at
AETN/Lifetime primarily due to the absence of a $58 million charge for our share of programming write-offs at AETN/Lifetime in the prior year and higher advertising and affiliate revenues, partially offset by higher marketing costs.   
         30   

Table of Contents  

    Segment Operating Income       Segment operating income increased 20%, or $1.0 billion, to $6.1 billion. The increase was primarily due to increases at ESPN, the ABC Television Network, the worldwide Disney Channels, our AETN/Lifetime
joint venture and the owned television stations.      The following table provides supplemental revenue and operating income
detail for the Media Networks segment:       
     Restructuring and impairment charges       The Company recorded charges of $3 million, $95 million and $315 million related to Media Networks for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The charges in fiscal 2010 were for severance and
related costs and the closure of five ESPN Zone locations. The charges in fiscal 2009 were primarily due to $142 million of radio FCC license impairments, a $65 million impairment charge related to our investment in UTV and severance and related
costs. These charges were reported in  Restructuring and impairment charges  in the Consolidated Statements of Income.       Parks and
Resorts       Operating results for the Parks and Resorts segment are as follows:   
   
     Revenues       Parks and Resorts revenues increased 10%, or $1 billion, to $11.8 billion due to an increase of $898 million at our domestic operations and an increase of $138 million at our international operations.
     Revenue growth of 11% at our domestic operations reflected a 6% increase driven by higher average guest spending and a 3%
increase due to volume driven by higher passenger cruise ship days due to the launch of our new cruise ship, the  Disney Dream , in January 2011, and higher attendance. Higher guest spending was primarily due to higher average ticket prices,
daily hotel room rates, and food, beverage, and merchandise spending.      Revenue growth of 6% at our international operations
reflected a 4% increase due to higher average guest spending, a 3% increase driven by volume due to higher attendance and hotel occupancy, and a 3% favorable impact of foreign currency translation primarily as a result of the weakening of the U.S.
dollar against the Euro. These increases were partially offset by a 2% decrease due to the prior-year sale of a real estate property at Disneyland Paris and a 1% decrease due to the temporary closure of the Tokyo Disney Resort following the March
2011 earthquake in Japan.   
         31   

Table of Contents  

   The following table presents supplemental attendance, per capita theme park guest spending,
and hotel statistics:       

(1)      
    Per room guest spending consists of the average daily hotel room rate as well as guest spending on food, beverages and merchandise at the hotels. Hotel
statistics include rentals of Disney Vacation Club units.      

(2)      
    Per capita guest spending and per room guest spending include the impact of foreign currency translation. Guest spending statistics for Disneyland
Paris were converted from Euros into US Dollars at weighted average exchange rates of 1.39 and 1.36 for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively.          Costs and Expenses       Operating expenses include operating labor which
increased by $262 million from $3,278 million to $3,540 million driven by labor cost inflation and higher pension and postretirement medical expenses. Operating expenses also include cost of sales which increased $88 million from $1,110 million to
$1,198 million driven by volume, partially offset by the absence of the costs related to a prior-year real estate sale at Disneyland Paris. Operating expenses also increased due to launch and operating costs in connection with the  Disney
Dream , enhancement and expansion costs, including new guest offerings at Disney California Adventure and investments in our systems infrastructure, and costs for Aulani, our new hotel and vacation club resort in Hawaii. In addition there was an
unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation as a result of the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro.      The
increase in selling, general, administrative and other costs and expenses was driven by higher marketing costs at our domestic parks and resorts, costs associated with the additional cruise ship and our new resort in Hawaii, and labor cost
inflation.       Segment Operating Income       Segment operating income increased 18%, or $235 million, to $1.6 billion due to increases at our domestic parks and resorts and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, partially offset by costs for our new resort in
Hawaii and a decrease at Tokyo Disney Resort.       Studio Entertainment    
  Operating results for the Studio Entertainment segment are as follows:   

32   

Table of Contents  

    Revenues       The decrease in theatrical distribution revenue reflected the prior-year success of  Toy Story 3, Alice in Wonderland  and  Iron Man 2  compared to the performance of  Pirates of the
Caribbean: On Stranger Tides, Cars 2, Thor  and  Captain America  in the current year.      Lower home entertainment
revenue reflected an 11% decrease due to the change in the transfer pricing arrangement for Studio distribution of Media Networks home entertainment product, partially offset by a 1% increase due to higher net effective pricing internationally which
benefitted from a higher Blu-ray sales mix. Net effective pricing is the wholesale selling price adjusted for discounts, sales incentives and returns.      The increase in television distribution and other revenues reflected 5% growth due to the inclusion of Marvel which was acquired at the end of the first quarter of the prior year and a 4% increase due to
higher revenue share from the Consumer Products segment resulting from the strength of  Cars  merchandise.       Cost and Expenses
      Operating expenses included a decrease of $262 million in film cost amortization, from $2,142 million to $1,880 million,
driven by lower film cost write-downs. Operating expenses also include cost of sales and distribution expenses which decreased $71 million from $1,327 million to $1,256 million primarily due to the change in the transfer pricing arrangement between
Studio Entertainment and Media Networks for distribution of Media Networks home entertainment product.      Selling, general,
administrative and other costs were essentially flat as higher marketing for Marvel titles and an increase in technology infrastructure spending were largely offset by lower theatrical pre-release marketing expense and the change in the transfer
pricing arrangement with Media Networks for home entertainment product.      The increase in depreciation and amortization was
driven by higher amortization on intangible assets related to certain Marvel film properties.       Segment Operating Income    
  Segment operating income decreased 11%, or $75 million, to $618 million primarily due to lower results at our theatrical and home
entertainment businesses and higher technology infrastructure spending, partially offset by lower film cost write-downs and a higher revenue share with the Consumer Products segment.       Restructuring and impairment charges       The Company recorded charges of $33
million, $151 million and $47 million related to Studio Entertainment for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The charges in fiscal 2011 and 2009 were primarily for severance and related costs. The charges in fiscal 2010 were primarily for the
closure of a production facility, the write-offs of capitalized costs related to abandoned film projects, and severance costs. These charges were reported in  Restructuring and impairment charges  in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
      Consumer Products       Operating results for the Consumer Products segment are as follows:       
 
         33   

Table of Contents  

    Revenues       The increase in licensing and publishing revenue reflected a 6% increase driven by the strong performance of  Cars, Tangled  and  Toy Story  merchandise and a 8% increase due to higher revenue
from Marvel properties. Higher revenues from Marvel properties reflected the impact of acquisition accounting which reduced revenue recognition in the prior year as well as a full year of operations as Marvel was acquired at the end of the first
quarter of the prior year. These increases were partially offset by a 5% decrease due to a higher revenue share to the Studio Entertainment segment resulting from the strength of  Cars  merchandise.   
  The increase in retail and other revenues was primarily due to a 9% increase from higher revenues at the Disney Store in North America
and Europe driven by higher comparable store sales and a 6% increase resulting from the acquisition of The Disney Store Japan, which was acquired at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2010.   
  Licensing and publishing and retail and other revenues also increased by 2% and 3%, respectively, due to the benefit from a favorable
impact from foreign currency translation as a result of the weakening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, primarily the Euro.   
   Costs and Expenses    
  Operating expenses included an increase of $57 million in cost of goods sold, from $521 million to $578 million, driven by the
acquisitions of The Disney Store Japan and Marvel. Operating expenses also included a 2% increase due to higher occupancy costs driven by an increase at our retail business reflecting the acquisition of The Disney Store Japan and a 1% increase due
to an unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation as a result of the weakening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, primarily the Euro.      The increase in selling, general, administrative and other costs was driven by an unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation as a result of the weakening of the U.S. dollar against foreign
currencies, primarily the Euro; the inclusion of a full year of operations for Marvel and various promotional initiatives across multiple businesses.      The increase in depreciation and amortization was due to a full year of amortization of intangible assets for Marvel and an increase at the Disney Stores due to an increase in new stores and remodels.
      Segment Operating Income       Segment operating income increased 21%, or $139 million, to $816 million primarily due to increases in our Merchandise Licensing and North American retail businesses.   
   Restructuring and impairment charges       The Company recorded charges totaling $16 million and $19 million related to Consumer Products for fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. The charges in fiscal 2010 and 2009 were for severance and
related costs which were reported in  Restructuring and impairment charges  in the Consolidated Statements of Income.   
   Interactive Media    
  Operating results for the Interactive Media segment are as follows:   

34   

Table of Contents  

    Revenues       Game sales and subscriptions revenue growth reflected a 12% increase due to higher console game unit sales and a 10% increase due to higher net effective pricing of console games, reflecting the strong
performance of  Epic Mickey  and  Lego Pirates of the Caribbean  and a shift in sales from catalog titles to new releases. Additionally, the inclusion of Playdom for a full year compared to one month in the prior year resulted in a 10%
increase in game sales and subscription revenues.      Higher advertising and other revenue was driven by our mobile phone service
in Japan.       Costs and Expenses       Operating expense included a $60 million increase in product development expense from $335 million to $395 million primarily due to the inclusion of Playdom for a full year. Operating expenses also
included a 12% increase due to higher cost of sales driven by fees paid to the developer of  Lego Pirates of the Caribbean  and higher console game unit sales.      The increase in selling, general, administrative and other costs was primarily due to the inclusion of Playdom for a full year, including the impact of acquisition accounting.   
   Segment Operating Loss    
  Segment operating loss was $308 million compared to $234 million in the prior year as an improvement at our console game business was more
than offset by the inclusion of Playdom for a full year, including the impact of acquisition accounting.       Restructuring and impairment
charges       The Company recorded charges totaling $22 million, $2 million and $42 million related to Interactive Media for
fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The charges for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 were for severance and related costs. The charges in fiscal 2009 were for goodwill impairment and severance and related costs. These charges were reported in
 Restructuring and impairment charges  in the Consolidated Statements of Income.       NON-SEGMENT ITEMS   2011 vs. 2010
       Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses       Corporate and unallocated shared expenses increased 9%, from $420 million to $459 million, primarily due to the timing of expenses and compensation related costs.   
   Net Interest Expense    
  Net interest expense is detailed below:       
    The decrease in interest expense for the year reflected lower effective interest rates.   
  The increase in interest and investment income for the year was driven by gains on sales of investments.   
   Effective Income Tax Rate       The effective tax rate decreased 0.3 percentage points from 34.9% in 2010 to 34.6% in 2011 as the absence of a charge related to the health care reform legislation and a benefit from an increase in the
domestic production deduction rate were largely offset by a decrease in favorable resolutions of prior-year tax matters. During fiscal 2010, the Company recorded a $72 million charge related to the enactment of health care reform legislation in
March 2010. Under this legislation the Company s deductions for retiree prescription drug benefits will be reduced by the amount of Medicare Part D drug subsidies received beginning in fiscal year 2014. Under applicable accounting rules, the
Company was required to reduce its existing deferred tax asset, which was established for the future deductibility of retiree prescription drug benefit costs, to reflect the lost deductions. The reduction was recorded as a charge to earnings in the
period the legislation was enacted.   
         35   

Table of Contents  

    Noncontrolling Interests       Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for the year increased $101 million to $451 million due to improved operating results at ESPN and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort. The net income
attributable to noncontrolling interests is determined on income after royalties, financing costs and income taxes.       PENSION AND
POSTRETIREMENT MEDICAL BENEFIT COSTS       Pension and postretirement medical benefit plan costs affect results in all of our
segments, with approximately one-half of these costs being borne by the Parks and Resorts segment. The Company recognized pension and postretirement medical benefit plan expenses of $576 million, $482 million, and $214 million for fiscal years 2011,
2010, and 2009, respectively. The increase in fiscal 2011 was driven by a decrease in the assumed discount rate used to measure the present value of plan obligations. The assumed discount rate reflects market rates for high-quality corporate bonds
currently available and was determined by considering the average of pension yield curves constructed from a large population of high quality corporate bonds. The resulting discount rate reflects the matching of plan liability cash flows to the
yield curves.      We expect pension and postretirement medical costs to increase by approximately $50 million to $626 million in
fiscal 2012 driven by a lower assumed discount rate, partially offset by a favorable impact due to plan amendments. The decrease in the discount rate also resulted in an increase in the underfunded status of our plans and an increase in unrecognized
pension and postretirement medical expense to $4.2 billion ($2.6 billion after tax) as of October 1, 2011. If our investment performance does not improve relative to our long-term assumption and/or discount rates do not increase, we expect that
pension and postretirement medical costs will continue at levels comparable to fiscal 2012 for the next few years as a result of amortizing these unrecognized expenses. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the
impacts of our pension and postretirement medical plans on our financial statements and amendments we made to our plans in fiscal 2011. During fiscal 2011, the Company contributed $935 million to its pension and postretirement medical plans
including discretionary contributions above the minimum requirements for pension plans. The Company currently expects pension and postretirement medical plan contributions in fiscal 2012 to total approximately $325 million to $375 million. Final
minimum funding requirements for fiscal 2012 will be determined based on our January 1, 2012 funding actuarial valuation which will be available in late fiscal 2012. See  Item 1A   Risk Factors  for the impact of factors
affecting pension and postretirement medical costs.       BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS   2010 vs. 2009    
   Media Networks    
  Operating results for the Media Networks segment are as follows:   
   
     Revenues       The 9% increase in Affiliate Fees, which are generally derived from fees charged on a per-subscriber basis, was primarily due to contractual rate increases and subscriber growth at Cable Networks which
resulted in revenue increases of 5% and 4%, respectively, partially offset by the impact of one fewer week of operations.   
         36   

Table of Contents  

   Higher advertising revenues were due to increases of $362 million at Cable Networks from
$2,689 million to $3,051 million and of $100 million at Broadcasting from $3,877 million to $3,977 million. The increase at Cable Networks reflected an increase of 9% due to higher sold inventory. The increase at Broadcasting reflected increases of
4% due to higher network advertising rates and sold inventory and 3% due to higher local television advertising, partially offset by a 4% decrease due to lower network ratings and one fewer week of operations.   
  Other revenues decreased $94 million at Cable Networks and $90 million at Broadcasting. The decrease at Cable Networks was driven by the
closure of five ESPN Zone restaurants in June 2010. The decrease at Broadcasting reflected lower domestic television syndication revenues due to the sales of  According to Jim  and  Grey s Anatomy  in fiscal 2009.   
   Costs and Expenses    
  Operating expenses include an increase in programming and production costs of $377 million from $8,076 million to $8,453 million. At Cable
Networks an increase in programming and production costs of $446 million was driven by higher sports rights costs due to new international sports programming rights and increased contractual costs for college and professional sports programming. At
Broadcasting a decrease in programming and production costs of $69 million was driven by costs savings at news and daytime and a lower cost mix of programming in primetime.      The increase in selling, general, administrative and other costs and expenses was driven by higher pension and postretirement medical and compensation related costs, partially offset by a decrease of
approximately $60 million due to the absence of a bad debt charge in connection with a bankruptcy of a syndication customer in fiscal 2009 and a decrease due to the closure of five ESPN Zone restaurants in June 2010.   
   Equity in the Income of Investees       Income from equity investees decreased to $438 million in fiscal 2010 from $567 million in fiscal 2009 driven by a $58 million charge for our share of programming write-offs at AETN/Lifetime in fiscal
2010.       Segment Operating Income       Segment operating income increased 8%, or $367 million, to $5.1 billion. The increase was primarily due to increases at ESPN, the owned television stations and the international Disney Channels, partially
offset by lower equity income.      The following table provides supplemental revenue and operating income detail for the Media
Networks segment:       
 
         37   

Table of Contents  

    Parks and Resorts           Operating results for the Parks and Resorts segment are as follows:       
     Revenues       Parks and Resorts revenues increased 1%, or $94 million, to $10.8 billion due to an increase of $132 million at our international operations, partially offset by a decrease of $38 million at our domestic
operations.      The decline in revenue at our domestic operations reflected the impact of one fewer week of operations in fiscal
2010 and a 1% volume decrease reflecting lower vacation club ownership sales, lower hotel occupancy and lower passenger cruise ship days. These decreases were partially offset by higher guest spending primarily due to higher average ticket prices
and higher average daily hotel room rates.      The 6% revenue increase at our international operations reflected increases of 3%
due to higher guest spending and 3% due to the sale of a real estate property at Disneyland Paris as well as higher attendance and hotel occupancy. Higher guest spending was driven by higher average ticket prices and average daily hotel room rates.
     The following table presents supplemental attendance, per capita theme park guest spending, and hotel statistics:   

(1)      
    Per room guest spending consists of the average daily hotel room rate as well as guest spending on food, beverages and merchandise at the hotels. Hotel
statistics include rentals of Disney Vacation Club units.      

(2)      
    Per capita guest spending and per room guest spending include the impact of foreign currency translation. Guest spending statistics for Disneyland
Paris were converted from Euros into US Dollars at weighted average exchange rates of 1.36 and 1.35 for fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively.          Costs and Expenses       Operating expenses included an increase in operating
labor of $173 million from $3,105 million to $3,278 million driven by labor cost inflation and higher pension and postretirement medical expenses, partially offset by a decrease in costs of sales of $57 million from $1,167 million to $1,110 million
primarily due to decreased sales volume. In addition, operating expenses reflected increased costs for new guest offerings including  World of Color  at Disneyland Resort.   
  The increase in selling, general, administrative and other costs and expenses was driven by increased marketing costs in support of the
Disney Cruise Line fleet expansion and also  World of Color  at Disneyland Resort as well as labor cost inflation.   
         38   

Table of Contents  

    Segment Operating Income       Segment operating income decreased 7%, or $100 million, to $1.3 billion, due to a decrease at our domestic operations, partially offset by an improvement at our international operations.   
   Restructuring and impairment charges       The Company recorded charges totaling $54 million related to Parks and Resorts in fiscal 2009 for severance and related costs which were reported in  Restructuring and impairment charges  in the
Consolidated Statement of Income.       Studio Entertainment       Operating results for the Studio Entertainment segment are as follows:       
     Revenues       The increase in theatrical distribution revenue was due to the strong performance of  Toy Story 3 ,  Alice in Wonderland  and  Iron Man 2  in fiscal 2010, compared to  Up  and  The
Proposal  in fiscal 2009.      The decrease in home entertainment revenues was primarily due to a 2% decrease reflecting lower
net effective pricing and a 2% decrease driven by lower sales volume of new releases domestically. Net effective pricing is the wholesale selling price adjusted for discounts, sales incentives and returns.   
  The decrease in television distribution and other revenues reflected the strong performance of  High School Musical 3  and  Rascal
Flatts  CD titles in fiscal 2009 as well as the  Cheetah Girls  concert tour in fiscal 2009.       Cost and Expenses    
  Operating expenses included an increase in film cost amortization of $385 million from $1,757 million to $2,142 million driven by the
strong performance of our key theatrical releases and higher film cost write-downs, partially offset by a decrease in costs of goods sold of $35 million from $384 million to $349 million driven by cost reduction initiatives at our home entertainment
business.      Selling, general, administrative and other costs and expenses reflected a decrease in marketing costs at our
theatrical and home entertainment businesses.       Segment Operating Income    
  Segment operating income increased from $175 million to $693 million primarily due to the improvements in our theatrical and home
entertainment businesses, partially offset by higher film cost write-downs.   
         39   

Table of Contents  

    Consumer Products       Operating results for the Consumer Products segment are as follows:       
     Revenues       The increase in licensing and publishing revenue was primarily due to an increase of $221 million resulting from the acquisition of Marvel and the strong performance of  Toy Story  merchandise,
partially offset by a higher revenue share with the Studio Entertainment segment of $90 million.      Higher retail and other
revenues were driven by a $69 million increase due to the acquisition of The Disney Store Japan and an increase of $33 million at The Disney Store North America and Europe reflecting higher comparable store sales.   
   Costs and Expenses    
  Operating expenses included cost of goods sold of $521 million which was comparable to fiscal 2009 as increases due to the acquisitions of
The Disney Store Japan and Marvel were offset by lower third-party royalties on licensing revenues and decreased costs of sales at The Disney Store North America due to an improved global purchasing strategy. Other operating costs increased due to
the addition of Marvel and The Disney Store Japan.      The increase in selling, general, administrative and other was driven by
the acquisitions of Marvel and The Disney Store Japan.       Segment Operating Income    
  Segment operating income increased 11%, or $68 million, to $677 million due to improved results at our retail business and an increase in
our publishing business driven by Marvel titles.       Interactive Media    
  Operating results for the Interactive Media segment are as follows:   

40   

Table of Contents  

    Revenues       Game sales and subscription revenue was essentially flat as lower unit sales of self published console games were offset by higher subscription revenues at Club Penguin. Significant titles in fiscal 2010
included  Toy Story 3, Split Second  and  Sing It 2  while fiscal 2009 included  High School Musical 3, Sing It  and  Bolt.        Higher advertising and other revenue was driven by increases at our mobile phone service business in Japan and in online advertising.       Costs and Expenses       Operating expenses included a decrease in costs of
goods sold of $70 million from $266 million to $196 million due to lower video game costs reflecting a sales mix shift from higher cost new releases, which included bundled accessories, in fiscal 2009 to lower cost catalog titles in fiscal 2010.
This decrease was partially offset by increased product development expense of $24 million.      The increase in selling, general,
administrative and other costs reflected higher marketing costs driven by  Toy Story 3  and  Split Second .       Segment Operating
Loss       Segment operating loss decreased 21%, or $61 million, to $234 million driven by improved results at our games and
Japan mobile phone service businesses, partially offset by the impact of purchase accounting for Playdom.       NON-SEGMENT ITEMS   2010
vs. 2009        Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses       Corporate and unallocated shared expenses increased 6%, from $398 million to $420 million, primarily due to higher information technology and compensation costs.   
   Net Interest Expense    
  Net interest expense is detailed below:       
    The decrease in interest expense for fiscal 2010 was primarily due to lower effective interest rates and
lower average debt balances, partially offset by expense related to the early redemption of a film financing borrowing.      The
decrease in interest and investment income for fiscal 2010 was primarily due to a gain on the sale of an investment in the prior year, lower effective interest rates and lower average cash balances.   
   Effective Income Tax Rate       The effective income tax rate decreased 1.3 percentage points from 36.2% in 2009 to 34.9% in 2010. The lower effective income tax rate for fiscal 2010 was primarily due to favorable adjustments related to
prior-year income tax matters, partially offset by a $72 million charge related to the health care reform legislation enacted in March 2010.   
   Noncontrolling Interests    
  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for the year increased $48 million to $350 million driven by improved operating
results at Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and ESPN. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is determined based on income after royalties, financing costs and income taxes.   
         41   

Table of Contents  

    LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    
  The change in cash and cash equivalents is as follows:       
     Operating Activities       Cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2011 increased 6% or $416 million to $7.0 billion as compared to fiscal 2010. The increase was primarily due to higher operating cash receipts driven by
higher revenues at our Media Networks, Parks and Resorts, Consumer Products and Interactive Media businesses, partially offset by lower revenues at our Studio Entertainment business. These increases were partially offset by higher cash payments at
Corporate and at our Media Networks, Parks and Resorts, Interactive Media, and Consumer Products businesses, partially offset by a decrease in cash payments at our Studio Entertainment business. The increase in cash payments at Corporate was driven
by higher contributions to our pension plans, while the increase at Media Networks was primarily due to higher investment in television programming and production. The increase in cash payments at Parks and Resorts was driven by labor cost
inflation, higher promotional and operating costs from the January launch of our new cruise ship, the  Disney Dream , and higher marketing and sales expenses and expansion costs for Disney California Adventure at Disneyland Resort. The increase
in cash payments at Interactive Media reflects the inclusion of Playdom, while the increase in cash payments at Consumer Products was primarily due to the acquisitions of The Disney Store Japan and Marvel. The decrease in cash payments at Studio
Entertainment was driven by lower film production spending.      Cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2010 increased
24% or $1.3 billion to $6.6 billion as compared to fiscal 2009. The increase was driven by higher operating cash receipts at our Media Networks, Parks and Resorts and Studio Entertainment businesses and lower cash payments at our Studio
Entertainment segment driven by a decrease in distribution and marketing expense, partially offset by higher income tax payments. The increase in cash receipts at our Media Networks and Studio Entertainment segments was driven by higher revenues,
while the increase in cash receipts at Parks and Resorts was driven by the timing of advance travel deposits.      Depreciation
expense is as follows:       
    The Company s Studio Entertainment and Media Networks segments incur costs to acquire and produce
television and feature film programming. Film and television production costs include all internally produced content such as live action and animated feature films, animated direct-to-video programming, television series, television specials,
theatrical stage plays or other similar product. Programming costs include film or television product licensed for a specific period from third parties for airing on the Company s broadcast, cable networks, and television stations. Programming
assets are generally recorded when the programming becomes available to us with a corresponding increase in programming liabilities. Accordingly, we analyze our programming assets net of the related liability.   
         42   

Table of Contents  

   The Company s film and television production and programming activity for fiscal years
2011, 2010 and 2009 are as follows:       
 
     Investing Activities       Investing activities consist principally of investments in parks, resorts, and other property and acquisition and divestiture activity. The Company s investments in parks, resorts and other property
for the last three years are as follows:       
    Capital expenditures for the Parks and Resorts segment are principally for theme park and resort
expansion, cruise ships, new rides and attractions, recurring capital and capital improvements. The increase in capital expenditures at domestic and international parks and resorts in fiscal 2011 reflected the final payment on our new cruise ship,
the  Disney Dream , theme park and resort expansions and new guest offerings at Walt Disney World Resort and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and the development of Shanghai Disney Resort. The increase in capital expenditures at domestic and
international parks and resorts in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 reflected higher construction progress payments on the two new cruise ships, the expansions at Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and Disney California Adventure and the construction
of Aulani, a Disney Resort   Spa in Hawaii. The increase in capital expenditures at Consumer Products from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2011 was driven by costs at the Disney Stores for new stores and remodels.   
  Capital expenditures at Media Networks primarily reflect investments in facilities and equipment for expanding and upgrading broadcast
centers, production facilities, and television station facilities.   
         43   

Table of Contents  

   Capital expenditures at Corporate primarily reflect investments in corporate facilities and
information technology infrastructure. The increases in fiscal 2011 and 2010 were driven by investments in equipment and corporate facilities.   
   Other Investing Activities       During fiscal 2011, proceeds from dispositions of $564 million primarily due to the sale of Miramax, were partially offset by acquisitions totaling $184 million which included additional payments related
to the acquisition of Playdom, Inc. (See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).      During fiscal 2010, acquisitions
totaled $2.5 billion and included the acquisitions of Marvel Entertainment, Inc. and Playdom, Inc., and were partially offset by net proceeds totaling $170 million from the sale of our investments in two television services in Europe and the sale of
the rights and assets related to the Power Rangers property.      During fiscal 2009, acquisitions totaled $176 million and
included the purchase of additional interests in UTV (See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), offset by proceeds totaling $185 million from the sale of our investment in two pay television services in Latin America.   
   Financing Activities    
  Cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2011 increased by $570 million to $3.2 billion compared to fiscal 2010 and consisted of
repurchases of common stock and the payment of dividends partially offset by borrowings and proceeds from the exercise of stock options. The increase from fiscal 2010 was due to higher repurchases of common stock, partially offset by higher net
borrowings. Cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2010 decreased by $448 million to $2.7 billion compared to fiscal 2009 and consisted of repurchases of common stock, repayments of borrowings, and the payment of dividends partially offset by
proceeds from the exercise of stock options. The decrease from fiscal 2009 was due to lower repayments of borrowings and increased proceeds from stock option exercises, partially offset by higher share repurchases.   
  During the year ended October 1, 2011, the Company s borrowing activity was as follows:   

(1)    
    The other activity is primarily the impact of foreign currency translation as a result of the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen.

(  2  )    
    The other activity is primarily market value adjustments for debt with qualifying hedges.      

(  3  )    
    The other activity is primarily due to the conversion of a portion of the HKSAR s loan to equity pursuant to the capital realignment and expansion
plan (See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).         The Company s bank facilities are as
follows:       
    In February 2011, the Company entered into a new four-year $2.25 billion bank facility with a syndicate
of lenders. This facility, in combination with the facility that matures in 2013, is used to support commercial paper borrowings. The new bank facility allows the Company to issue up to $800 million of letters of credit, which if utilized, reduces
available borrowings under this facility. As of October 1, 2011, $315 million of letters of credit had been issued of which $47 million was issued under this facility. These bank facilities allow for borrowings at LIBOR-based rates plus a
spread, which depends on the Company s public debt rating and can range from 0.33% to 4.50%.   
         44   

Table of Contents  

   The Company may use commercial paper borrowings up to the amount of its unused bank
facilities, in conjunction with term debt issuance and operating cash flow, to retire or refinance other borrowings before or as they come due.      The Company paid a $0.40 per share dividend ($756 million) during the second quarter of fiscal 2011 related to fiscal 2010. The Company paid a $0.35 per share dividend ($653 million) during the second
quarter of fiscal 2010 related to fiscal 2009; and paid a $0.35 per share dividend ($648 million) during the second quarter of fiscal 2009 related to fiscal 2008. As of the filing date of this report, the Board of Directors had not yet declared a
dividend related to fiscal 2011.      During fiscal 2011, the Company repurchased 135 million shares of Disney common stock
for $5.0 billion. During fiscal 2010, the Company repurchased 80 million shares of Disney common stock for $2.7 billion. During fiscal 2009, the Company repurchased 5 million shares of Disney common stock for $138 million. On March 22,
2011, the Company s Board of Directors increased the amount of shares that can be repurchased to 400 million shares as of that date. As of October 1, 2011, the Company had remaining authorization in place to repurchase 305 million
additional shares.      We believe that the Company s financial condition is strong and that its cash balances, other liquid
assets, operating cash flows, access to debt and equity capital markets and borrowing capacity, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements and future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing
businesses and development of new projects. However, the Company s operating cash flow and access to the capital markets can be impacted by macroeconomic factors outside of its control. See  Item 1A   Risk Factors . In addition
to macroeconomic factors, the Company s borrowing costs can be impacted by short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, which are based, in significant part, on the Company s performance as measured by certain
credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. As of October 1, 2011, Moody s Investors Service s long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A2 and P-1, respectively, with stable outlook; Standard  
Poor s long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A and A-1, respectively, with stable outlook; and Fitch s long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A and F-1, respectively, with stable outlook. The Company s
bank facilities contain only one financial covenant, relating to interest coverage, which the Company met on October 1, 2011, by a significant margin. The Company s bank facilities also specifically exclude certain entities, such as
Disneyland Paris, Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and Shanghai Disney Resort, from any representations, covenants or events of default.      Disneyland Paris has in its debt agreements certain annual financial performance objectives and limits on investing and financing activities. In fiscal 2011, Disneyland Paris did not meet its annual
performance objectives and must defer  25 million of royalties and management fees payable to the Company and  20 million of interest payable to a French state bank. Additionally, as a result of the fact that the performance
objectives were not met, certain of Disneyland Paris s investment activities are further limited by the debt agreements.   
  Disneyland Paris is also subject to certain financial covenants and believes that it is in compliance with such covenants with the
assistance of the Company s agreement, as permitted under the debt agreements, to defer an additional  9 million of royalties payable to the Company into subordinated long-term borrowings.   
  The deferrals discussed above and compliance with these financial covenants are subject to final third-party review as provided in
Disneyland Paris s debt agreements.       CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS, COMMITMENTS AND OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS    
  The Company has various contractual obligations which are recorded as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. Other items,
such as certain purchase commitments and other executory contracts are not recognized as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements but are required to be disclosed in the footnotes to the financial statements. For example, the Company is
contractually committed to acquire broadcast programming and make certain minimum lease payments for the use of property under operating lease agreements.   
         45   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations and commitments on an
undiscounted basis at October 1, 2011 and the future periods in which such obligations are expected to be settled in cash. In addition, the table reflects the timing of principal and interest payments on outstanding borrowings. Additional
details regarding these obligations are provided in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as referenced in the table:       

(1)      
    Amounts exclude market value adjustments totaling $284 million, which are recorded in the balance sheet. Amounts include interest payments based on
contractual terms for fixed rate debt, and on current interest rates for variable rate debt.          

(2)      
    Other commitments primarily comprise contractual commitments for the construction of two new cruise ships, creative talent and employment agreements
and unrecognized tax benefits. Creative talent and employment agreements include obligations to actors, producers, sports personnel, television and radio personalities and executives.      

(3)      
    Contractual commitments include the following:          
    The Company also has obligations with respect to its pension and postretirement medical benefit plans.
See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Contingent Commitments and Contractual Guarantees    
  The Company has certain contractual arrangements that would require the Company to make payments or provide funding if certain
circumstances occur. The Company does not currently expect that these arrangements will result in any significant amounts being paid by the Company.   See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the
Company s contingent commitments and contractual guarantees.       Legal and Tax Matters    
  As disclosed in Notes 10 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has exposure for certain legal and tax matters.
      ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES       We believe that the application of the following accounting policies, which are important to our financial position and results of operations, require significant judgments and estimates on the part of
management. For a summary of our significant accounting policies, including the accounting policies discussed below, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Film and Television Revenues and Costs       We expense film and television
production, participation and residual costs over the applicable product life cycle based upon the ratio of the current period s revenues to the estimated remaining total revenues (Ultimate Revenues) for each production. If our estimate of
Ultimate Revenues decreases, amortization of film and television costs may be accelerated. Conversely, if estimates of Ultimate Revenues increase, film and television cost amortization may be slowed. For film productions, Ultimate Revenues include
revenues from all sources that will be earned within ten years from the date of the initial theatrical release. For television series, Ultimate Revenues include revenues that will be earned within ten years from delivery of the first episode, or if
still in production, five years from delivery of the most recent episode, if later.   
         46   

Table of Contents  

   With respect to films intended for theatrical release, the most sensitive factor affecting
our estimate of Ultimate Revenues (and therefore affecting future film cost amortization and/or impairment) is domestic theatrical performance. Revenues derived from other markets subsequent to the domestic theatrical release (e.g., the home
entertainment or international theatrical markets) have historically been highly correlated with domestic theatrical performance. Domestic theatrical performance varies primarily based upon the public interest and demand for a particular film, the
popularity of competing films at the time of release and the level of marketing effort. Upon a film s release and determination of domestic theatrical performance, the Company s estimates of revenues from succeeding windows and markets are
revised based on historical relationships and an analysis of current market trends. The most sensitive factor affecting our estimate of Ultimate Revenues for released films is the extent of home entertainment sales achieved. Home entertainment sales
vary based on the number and quality of competing home video products, as well as the manner in which retailers market and price our products.      With respect to television series or other television productions intended for broadcast, the most sensitive factor affecting estimates of Ultimate Revenues is the program s rating and the strength
of the advertising market. Program ratings, which are an indication of market acceptance, directly affect the Company s ability to generate advertising revenues during the airing of the program. In addition, television series with greater
market acceptance are more likely to generate incremental revenues through the eventual sale of the program rights in the syndication, international and home entertainment markets. Alternatively, poor ratings may result in a television series
cancellation, which would require the immediate write-off of any unamortized production costs. A significant decline in the advertising market would also negatively impact our estimates.   
  We expense the cost of television broadcast rights for acquired movies, series and other programs based on the number of times the
program is expected to be aired or on a straight-line basis over the useful life, as appropriate. Amortization of those television programming assets being amortized on a number of airings basis may be accelerated if we reduce the estimated future
airings and slowed if we increase the estimated future airings. The number of future airings of a particular program is impacted primarily by the program s ratings in previous airings, expected advertising rates and availability and quality of
alternative programming. Accordingly, planned usage is reviewed periodically and revised if necessary. We amortize rights costs for multi-year sports programming arrangements during the applicable seasons based on the estimated relative value of
each year in the arrangement. The estimated values of each year are based on our projection of revenues over the contract period which include advertising revenue and an allocation of affiliate revenue. If the annual contractual payments related to
each season approximate each season s relative value, we expense the related contractual payment during the applicable season. If planned usage patterns or estimated relative values by year were to change significantly, amortization of our
sports rights costs may be accelerated or slowed.      Costs of film and television productions are subject to regular
recoverability assessments which compare the estimated fair values with the unamortized costs. The net realizable values of television broadcast program licenses and rights are reviewed using a daypart methodology. A daypart is defined as an
aggregation of programs broadcast during a particular time of day or programs of a similar type. The Company s dayparts are: daytime, late night, primetime, news, children, and sports (includes network and cable). The net realizable values of
other cable programming assets are reviewed on an aggregated basis for each cable channel. Individual programs are written-off when there are no plans to air or sublicense the program. Estimated values are based upon assumptions about future demand
and market conditions. If actual demand or market conditions are less favorable than our projections, film, television and programming cost write-downs may be required.       Revenue Recognition       The Company has revenue recognition policies for its
various operating segments that are appropriate to the circumstances of each business. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of these revenue recognition policies.   
  We reduce home entertainment and software product revenues for estimated future returns of merchandise and for customer programs and
sales incentives. These estimates are based upon historical return experience, current economic trends and projections of customer demand for and acceptance of our products. If we underestimate the level of returns and concessions in a particular
period, we may record less revenue in later periods when returns exceed the estimated amount. Conversely, if we overestimate the level of returns and concessions for a period, we may have additional revenue in later periods when returns and
concessions are less than estimated.      We recognize revenues from advance theme park ticket sales when the tickets are used.
For non-expiring, multi-day tickets, revenues are recognized over a four-year time period based on estimated usage, which is derived from historical usage patterns. If actual usage is different than our estimated usage, revenues may not be
recognized in the periods the related services are rendered. In addition, a change in usage patterns would impact the timing of revenue recognition.       Pension and Postretirement Medical Plan Actuarial Assumptions       The
Company s pension and postretirement medical benefit obligations and related costs are calculated using a number of actuarial assumptions. Two critical assumptions, the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets, are important
elements of expense and/or liability measurement which we evaluate annually. Other assumptions include the healthcare cost trend rate and employee demographic factors such as retirement patterns, mortality, turnover and rate of compensation
increase.   
         47   

Table of Contents  

   The discount rate enables us to state expected future cash payments for benefits as a
present value on the measurement date. A lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases pension expense. The guideline for setting this rate is a high-quality long-term corporate bond rate. We decreased our
discount rate to 4.75% at the end of fiscal 2011 from 5.25% at the end of fiscal 2010 to reflect market interest rate conditions at our October 1, 2011 measurement date. This decrease in the discount rate will affect net periodic pension and
postretirement medical expense (benefit expense) in fiscal 2012. The assumed discount rate reflects market rates for high-quality corporate bonds currently available. The Company s discount rate was determined by considering the average of
pension yield curves constructed of a large population of high quality corporate bonds. The resulting discount rate reflects the matching of plan liability cash flows to the yield curves. A one percentage point decrease in the assumed discount rate
would increase total benefit expense for fiscal 2012 by $223 million and would increase the projected benefit obligation at October 1, 2011 by $1.9 billion, respectively. A one percentage point increase in the assumed discount rate would
decrease total benefit expense and the projected benefit obligation by $193 million and $1.6 billion, respectively.      To
determine the expected long-term rate of return on the plan assets, we consider the current and expected asset allocation, as well as historical and expected returns on each plan asset class. A lower expected rate of return on pension plan assets
will increase pension expense. Our long-term expected return on plan assets was 7.75% for both of the 2011 and 2010 actuarial valuations. A one percentage point change in the long-term asset return assumption would impact fiscal 2012 annual benefit
expense by approximately $70 million.      See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our
pension and postretirement medical plans.       Goodwill, Intangible Assets, Long-Lived Assets and Investments    
  The Company is required to test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and if current
events or circumstances require, on an interim basis. Goodwill is allocated to various reporting units, which are generally an operating segment or one level below the operating segment. The Company compares the fair value of each reporting unit to
its carrying amount to determine if there is potential goodwill impairment. If the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of the goodwill within the reporting
unit is less than the carrying value of the goodwill.      To determine the fair value of our reporting units, we generally use a
present value technique (discounted cash flow) corroborated by market multiples when available and as appropriate. We apply what we believe to be the most appropriate valuation methodology for each of our reporting units. The discounted cash
flow analyses are sensitive to our estimates of future revenue growth and margins for these businesses. We include in the projected cash flows an estimate of the revenue we believe the reporting unit would receive if the intellectual property
developed by the reporting unit that is being used by other reporting units was licensed to an unrelated third party at its fair market value. These amounts are not necessarily the same as those included in segment operating results. We believe our
estimates of fair value are consistent with how a marketplace participant would value our reporting units.      In times of
adverse economic conditions in the global economy, the Company s long-term cash flow projections are subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than usual. If we had established different reporting units or utilized different valuation
methodologies or assumptions, the impairment test results could differ, and we could be required to record impairment charges.   
  The Company is required to compare the fair values of other indefinite-lived intangible assets to their carrying amounts. If the carrying
amount of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized. Fair values of other indefinite-lived intangible assets are determined based on discounted cash flows or appraised values, as appropriate.
     The Company tests long-lived assets, including amortizable intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances (triggering events) indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Once a triggering event has occurred, the impairment test employed is based on whether the intent is to hold the asset for continued use or to hold the asset
for sale. The impairment test for assets held for use requires a comparison of cash flows expected to be generated over the useful life of an asset group against the carrying value of the asset group. An asset group is established by identifying the
lowest level of cash flows generated by the group of assets that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and could include assets used across multiple businesses or segments. If the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the
estimated undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment would be measured as the difference between the fair value of the group s long-lived assets and the carrying value of the group s long-lived assets. The impairment is allocated to the
long-lived assets of the group on a pro rata basis using the relative carrying amounts, but only to the extent the carrying value of each asset is above its fair value. For assets held for sale, to the extent the carrying value is greater than the
asset s fair value less costs to sell, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference. Determining whether a long-lived asset is impaired requires various estimates and assumptions, including whether a triggering event has occurred, the
identification of the asset groups, estimates of future cash flows and the discount rate used to determine fair values. If we had established different asset groups or utilized different valuation methodologies or assumptions, the impairment test
results could differ, and we could be required to record impairment charges.   
         48   

Table of Contents  

   The Company has cost and equity investments. The fair value of these investments is
dependent on the performance of the investee companies, as well as volatility inherent in the external markets for these investments. In assessing potential impairment of these investments, we consider these factors, as well as the forecasted
financial performance of the investees and market values, where available. If these forecasts are not met or market values indicate an other-than-temporary decline in value, impairment charges may be required.   
  During fiscal years 2011 and 2010, the Company tested its goodwill and other intangible assets, investments and long-lived assets for
impairment, and the impairment charges recorded were immaterial. During fiscal 2009, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of $279 million, which included $142 million for FCC radio licenses and $65 million for our investment in UTV. The
FCC radio license impairment charges reflected overall market declines in certain radio markets in which we operate. These impairment charges, which were estimated using a discounted cash flow model, were recorded in  Restructuring and
impairment charges  in the Consolidated Statements of Income.       Allowance for Doubtful Accounts    
  We evaluate our allowance for doubtful accounts and estimate collectability of accounts receivable based on our analysis of historical bad
debt experience in conjunction with our assessment of the financial condition of individual companies with which we do business. In times of domestic or global economic turmoil, our estimates and judgments with respect to the collectability of our
receivables are subject to greater uncertainty than in more stable periods. If our estimate of uncollectible accounts is too low, costs and expenses may increase in future periods, and if it is too high, cost and expenses may decrease in future
periods.       Contingencies and Litigation       We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and, as required, have accrued estimates of the probable and estimable losses for the resolution of these claims. These estimates have been developed
in consultation with outside counsel and are based upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. It is possible, however, that future results of operations for any particular quarterly or
annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies related to these proceedings. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information on litigation exposure.
      Income Tax Audits       As a matter of course, the Company is regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. From time to time, these audits result in proposed assessments. Our determinations
regarding the recognition of income tax benefits are made in consultation with outside tax and legal counsel where appropriate and are based upon the technical merits of our tax positions in consideration of applicable tax statutes and related
interpretations and precedents and upon the expected outcome of proceedings (or negotiations) with taxing and legal authorities. The tax benefits ultimately realized by the Company may differ from those recognized in our future financial statements
based on a number of factors, including the Company s decision to settle rather than litigate a matter, relevant legal precedent related to similar matters and the Company s success in supporting its filing positions with taxing
authorities.       ACCOUNTING CHANGES        Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables       In October 2009, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance on revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables effective for the Company s 2011 fiscal year. The guidance revises the criteria for separating, measuring, and allocating arrangement
consideration to each deliverable in a multiple element arrangement. The guidance requires companies to allocate revenue using the relative selling price of each deliverable, which must be estimated if the company does not have a history of selling
the deliverable on a stand-alone basis or third-party evidence of selling price. The Company adopted the provisions of this guidance at the beginning of fiscal year 2011, and the adoption did not have a material impact on the Company s
financial statements.       Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets    
  In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance on transfers and servicing of financial assets to eliminate the concept of a qualifying
special-purpose entity, change the requirements for off balance sheet accounting for financial assets including limiting the circumstances where off balance sheet treatment for a portion of a financial asset is allowable, and require additional
disclosures. The guidance is effective for the Company s 2011 fiscal year. The Company adopted the provisions of this guidance at the beginning of fiscal year 2011, and the adoption did not have a material impact on the Company s financial
statements.       Variable Interest Entities       In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance to revise the approach to determine when a variable interest entity (VIE) should be consolidated. The new consolidation model for VIEs considers whether an entity
has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE s economic performance and shares in the significant risks and rewards of the VIE. The guidance on VIEs requires companies to continually reassess VIEs to determine
if consolidation is appropriate and provide additional disclosures. The Company adopted the provisions of this guidance at the beginning of fiscal year 2011, and the adoption did not have a material impact on the Company s financial statements.
  
         49   

Table of Contents  

    Employee Compensation   Retirement Benefits    
  In September 2006, the FASB issued guidance that requires recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of defined benefit pension
and other postretirement plans as an asset or liability in the statement of financial position and changes in that funded status to be recognized in comprehensive income in the year in which the changes occur. The guidance on retirement benefits
also requires measurement of the funded status of a plan as of the end of the fiscal year. The Company adopted the recognition provision in fiscal year 2007 which resulted in a $261 million charge to accumulated other comprehensive income. The
Company adopted the measurement date provision by remeasuring plan assets and benefit obligations at the beginning of fiscal 2009. Adoption of the measurement date provisions resulted in a reduction of $35 million to retained earnings and a $100
million benefit to accumulated other comprehensive income.       FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS    
  The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the
Company. We may from time to time make written or oral statements that are  forward-looking,  including statements contained in this report and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in reports to our shareholders.
Such statements may, for example, express expectations or projections about future actions that we may take, including restructuring or strategic initiatives, or about developments beyond our control including changes in domestic or global economic
conditions. These statements are made on the basis of management s views and assumptions as of the time the statements are made and we undertake no obligation to update these statements. There can be no assurance, however, that our expectations
will necessarily come to pass. Significant factors affecting these expectations are set forth under Item 1A   Risk Factors of this Report on Form 10-K.         ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk       The Company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, commodity fluctuations and changes in the market values of its investments.   
   Policies and Procedures    
  In the normal course of business, we employ established policies and procedures to manage the Company s exposure to changes in
interest rates, foreign currencies, commodities, and the fair market value of certain investments in debt and equity securities using a variety of financial instruments.      Our objectives in managing exposure to interest rate changes are to limit the impact of interest rate volatility on earnings and cash flows and to lower overall borrowing costs. To achieve these
objectives, we primarily use interest rate swaps to manage net exposure to interest rate changes related to the Company s portfolio of borrowings. By policy, the Company targets fixed-rate debt as a percentage of its net debt between minimum
and maximum percentages.      Our objective in managing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations is to reduce volatility of
earnings and cash flow in order to allow management to focus on core business issues and challenges. Accordingly, the Company enters into various contracts that change in value as foreign exchange rates change to protect the U.S. dollar equivalent
value of its existing foreign currency assets, liabilities, commitments, and forecasted foreign currency revenues and expenses. The Company utilizes option strategies and forward contracts that provide for the purchase or sale of foreign currencies
to hedge probable, but not firmly committed, transactions. The Company also uses forward and option contracts to hedge foreign currency assets and liabilities. The principal foreign currencies hedged are the Euro, British pound, Japanese yen, and
Canadian dollar. Cross-currency swaps are used to effectively convert foreign currency denominated borrowings to U.S. dollar denominated borrowings. By policy, the Company maintains hedge coverage between minimum and maximum percentages of its
forecasted foreign exchange exposures generally for periods not to exceed four years. The gains and losses on these contracts offset changes in the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the related exposures.   
  Our objectives in managing exposure to commodity fluctuations are to use commodity derivatives to reduce volatility of earnings and cash
flows arising from commodity price changes. The amounts hedged using commodity swap contracts are based on forecasted levels of consumption of certain commodities, such as fuel oil and gasoline.   
  It is the Company s policy to enter into foreign currency and interest rate derivative transactions and other financial instruments
only to the extent considered necessary to meet its objectives as stated above. The Company does not enter into these transactions or any other hedging transactions for speculative purposes.   
         50   

Table of Contents  

    Value at Risk (VAR)       The Company utilizes a VAR model to estimate the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of its interest rate, foreign exchange, and market sensitive equity financial instruments. The VAR model
estimates were made assuming normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. Various modeling techniques can be used in a VAR computation. The Company s computations are based on the interrelationships between movements in various interest
rates, currencies, and equity prices (a variance/co-variance technique). These interrelationships were determined by observing interest rate, foreign currency, and equity market changes over the preceding quarter for the calculation of VAR amounts
at fiscal year end. The model includes all of the Company s debt as well as all interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts and market sensitive equity investments. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and receivables and
accounts payable denominated in foreign currencies, which certain of these instruments are intended to hedge, were excluded from the model.      The VAR model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that will be incurred by the Company, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in
market factors.      VAR on a combined basis increased to $58 million at October 1, 2011 from $33 million at October 2,
2010. The increase in VAR primarily reflected an increase in the amount of fixed rate debt during the year and higher volatility of interest rates.      The estimated maximum potential one-day loss in fair value, calculated using the VAR model, is as follows (unaudited, in millions):   
   
    The VAR for Disneyland Paris and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort is immaterial as of October 1, 2011 and
accordingly, has been excluded from the above table.       ITEM 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
      See Index to Financial Statements and Supplemental Data on page 58.   
     ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
  None.        
 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures        Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures    
  We have established disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that the information required to be disclosed by the Company in the
reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and made known to the
officers who certify the Company s financial reports and to other members of senior management and the Board of Directors as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   
  Based on their evaluation as of October 1, 2011, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer of the Company have
concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) are effective.   
         51   

Table of Contents  

    Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
  Management s report set forth on page 59 is incorporated herein by reference.   
   Changes in Internal Controls       There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended October 1, 2011, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely
to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.       ITEM 9B.   Other Information
      None.   
         52   

Table of Contents  

    PART III          ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance       Information regarding Section 16(a) compliance, the Audit Committee, the Company s code of ethics, background of the directors and director nominations appearing under the captions  Section
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,   Committees,   Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Ethics ,  Director Selection Process  and  Election of Directors  in the Company s Proxy
Statement for the 2012 annual meeting of Shareholders is hereby incorporated by reference.      Information regarding executive
officers is included in Part I of this Form 10-K as permitted by General Instruction G(3).         ITEM 11.
Executive Compensation       Information appearing under the captions  Board Compensation  and  Executive
Compensation  in the 2012 Proxy Statement (other than the  Compensation Committee Report,  which is deemed furnished herein by reference) is hereby incorporated by reference.         ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
  Information setting forth the security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management appearing under the caption  Stock
Ownership  and information in the  Equity Compensation Plans  table appearing under the caption  Equity Compensation Plans  in the 2012 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference.   
     ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
  Information regarding certain related transactions appearing under the captions  Certain Relationships and Related Person
Transactions  and information regarding director independence appearing under the caption  Director Independence  in the 2012 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference.   
     ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
  Information appearing under the captions  Auditor Fees and Services  and  Policy for Approval of Audit and Permitted
Non-Audit Services  in the 2012 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference.   
         53   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV          ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules        

(1)  
  Financial Statements and Schedules        See Index to Financial Statements and Supplemental Data at page 58.       
    The
documents set forth below are filed herewith or incorporated herein by reference to the location indicated.       
 
         54   

Table of Contents  

55   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit    
      
     Location     

10.26   
      
  Form of Performance-Based Stock Unit Award Agreement (Section 162(m) Vesting Requirement)  
      
    Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q of the Company for the quarter ended April 2, 2011    
 
    10.27   
      
  Form of Performance-Based Stock Unit Award Agreement (Three-Year Vesting subject to Total Shareholder Return/EPS Growth Tests/Section 162(m) Vesting Requirement)  
      
    Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 10-Q of the Company for the quarter ended April 2, 2011    
 
    10.28   
      
  Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement  
      
    Exhibit 10.4 to the Form 10-Q of the Company for the quarter ended April 2, 2011    
 
    10.29   
      
  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement in Lieu of Equitable Adjustment  
      
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q of the Company for the period ended June 30, 2007    
 
    10.30   
      
  Disney Savings and Investment Plan as Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2010  
      
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q of the Company for the period ended July 3, 2010    
 
    21   
      
  Subsidiaries of the Company  
      
    Filed herewith    
 
    23   
      
  Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
      
    Filed herewith    
 
    31(a)   
      
  Rule 13a   14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer of the Company in accordance with Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
      
    Filed herewith    
 
    31(b)   
      
  Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer of the Company in accordance with Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
      
    Filed herewith    
 
    32(a)   
      
  Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer of the Company in accordance with Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*  
      
    Furnished herewith    
 
    32(b)   
      
  Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer of the Company in accordance with Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*  
      
    Furnished herewith    
 
    101   
      
  The following materials from the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 1, 2011 formatted in Extensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL): (i) the
Consolidated Statements of Income, (ii) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity and (v) related notes  
      
    Filed herewith    

*  
  A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.     
         56   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY   

(Registrant)   
 
            Date: November 23, 2011  

By:  
     
  /s/    ROBERT A. IGER    

(Robert A. Iger,   

President and Chief Executive Officer)   
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature   
      
    Title   
     
    Date    

Principal Executive Officer    

/s/    ROBERT A. IGER         (Robert A. Iger)   
      
  President and Chief Executive Officer  
     
  November 23, 2011   

Principal Financial and Accounting Officers    

/s/    JAMES A. RASULO         (James A. Rasulo)   
      
    Senior Executive Vice President  
  and Chief Financial Officer   
     
  November 23, 2011   

/s/    BRENT A. WOODFORD         (Brent A. Woodford)   
      
    Senior Vice President-Planning  
  and Control   
     
  November 23, 2011   

Directors    

/s/    SUSAN E. ARNOLD         (Susan E. Arnold)   
      
  Director  
     
  November 23, 2011   

/s/    JOHN S. CHEN         (John S. Chen)   
      
  Director  
     
  November 23, 2011   

/s/    JUDITH L. ESTRIN         (Judith L. Estrin)   
      
  Director  
     
  November 23, 2011   

/s/    ROBERT A. IGER         (Robert A. Iger)   
      
  Director  
     
  November 23, 2011   

/s/    FRED H. LANGHAMMER         (Fred H. Langhammer)   
      
  Director  
     
  November 23, 2011   

/s/    AYLWIN B. LEWIS         (Aylwin B. Lewis)   
      
  Director  
     
  November 23, 2011   

/s/    MONICA C. LOZANO         (Monica C. Lozano)   
      
  Director  
     
  November 23, 2011   

/s/    ROBERT W. MATSCHULLAT         (Robert W. Matschullat)   
      
  Director  
     
  November 23, 2011   

/s/    JOHN E. PEPPER, JR.         (John E. Pepper, Jr.)   
      
  Chairman of the Board and Director  
     
  November 23, 2011   

/s/    SHERYL SANDBERG         (Sheryl Sandberg)   
      
  Director  
     
  November 23, 2011   

/s/    ORIN C. SMITH         (Orin C. Smith)   
      
  Director  
     
  November 23, 2011   
 
         57   

Table of Contents  

      THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
     INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA    
   
    All schedules are omitted for the reason that they are not applicable or the required information is
included in the financial statements or notes.   
         58   

Table of Contents  

      MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
REPORTING       Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting,
as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements prepared for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial
officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework,  management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of October 1, 2011.   
  The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of October 1, 2011 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein.   
         59   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
      To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of The Walt Disney Company   
  In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders  equity
and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Walt Disney Company and its subsidiaries (the Company) at October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended October 1, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of October 1, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s
management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.   
  As discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for pension and other
postretirement benefit plans in 2009.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being
made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP   
  Los Angeles, California      November 23, 2011
  
         60   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME    
    (in millions, except per share data)    

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         61   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS    
    (in millions, except per share data)    

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         62   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS    
    (in millions)        
 
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         63   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY    
    (in millions, except per share data)    

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         64   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
   (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)    
     1  
  Description of the Business and Segment Information   
   The Walt Disney Company, together with the subsidiaries through which businesses are conducted (the Company), is a
diversified worldwide entertainment company with operations in the following business segments: Media Networks, Parks and Resorts, Studio Entertainment, Consumer Products and Interactive Media.   
  DESCRIPTION OF THE BUSINESS       Media Networks
      The Company operates through consolidated subsidiaries the ESPN, Disney Channels Worldwide, ABC Family and SOAPnet cable
television networks. The Company also operates the ABC Television Network and eight owned television stations, as well as the ESPN Radio Network and Radio Disney Network (the Radio Networks) and 35 owned and operated radio stations. Both the ABC
Television Network and Radio Networks have affiliated stations providing coverage to households throughout the United States. The Company also produces original television programming for network, first-run syndication, pay, and international
television markets, along with original animated television programming for network, pay, and international syndication markets. The Company has interests in joint ventures that operate programming services and are accounted for under the equity
method including AETN/Lifetime. Additionally, the Company operates ABC-, ESPN-, ABC Family- and SOAPnet-branded internet businesses.       Parks
and Resorts       The Company owns and operates the Walt Disney World Resort in Florida and the Disneyland Resort in California.
The Walt Disney World Resort includes four theme parks (the Magic Kingdom, Epcot, Disney s Hollywood Studios, and Disney s Animal Kingdom), 17 resort hotels, a retail, dining, and entertainment complex, a sports complex, conference
centers, campgrounds, water parks, and other recreational facilities. The Disneyland Resort includes two theme parks (Disneyland and Disney California Adventure), three resort hotels, and a retail, dining and entertainment complex. Internationally,
the Company manages and has an effective 51% ownership interest in Disneyland Paris, which includes two theme parks (Disneyland Park and Walt Disney Studios Park), seven themed hotels, two convention centers, a shopping, dining and entertainment
complex, and a 27-hole golf facility. The Company manages and has a 47% ownership interest in Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, which includes one theme park and two resort hotels. The Company has a majority stake in the management company and 43%
ownership of Shanghai Disney Resort, which is currently under construction. The Company also earns royalties on revenues generated by the Tokyo Disneyland Resort, which includes two theme parks and three Disney-branded hotels, and is owned and
operated by an unrelated Japanese corporation. The Company also manages and markets vacation club ownership interests through the Disney Vacation Club, operates the Disney Cruise Line, the Adventures by Disney guided group vacations business and the
newly opened Aulani, a mixed-use Disney Resort and Spa in Hawaii. The Company s Walt Disney Imagineering unit designs and develops theme park concepts and attractions, as well as resort properties.   
   Studio Entertainment    
  The Company produces and acquires live-action and animated motion pictures for worldwide distribution to the theatrical, home
entertainment, and television markets. The Company distributes these products through its own distribution and marketing companies in the United States and both directly and through independent companies and joint ventures in foreign markets
primarily under the Walt Disney Pictures, Touchstone Pictures, Pixar, Marvel, and Disneynature banners. We also distribute certain motion pictures for DreamWorks under the Touchstone Pictures banner. The Company also produces stage plays, musical
recordings and live entertainment events.       Consumer Products       The Company licenses trade names, characters and visual and literary properties to various manufacturers, retailers, show promoters, and publishers throughout the world. The Company also engages in retail
and online distribution of products through The Disney Store and DisneyStore.com. The Disney Store is owned and operated in Europe, North America and Japan. The Company publishes entertainment and educational books and magazines and comic books for
children and families and operates English language learning centers in China.       Disney Interactive Media Group    
  The Company creates and delivers branded entertainment and lifestyle content across interactive media platforms. The primary operating
businesses are Games which produces and distributes console, online and mobile games, and Online which develops branded online services in the United States and internationally. The Interactive Media Group also manages the Disney-branded mobile
phone business in Japan which provides mobile phone service and downloadable content to consumers. Certain properties are also licensed to third-party video game publishers.   
         65   

Table of Contents  

   SEGMENT INFORMATION      The operating segments reported below are the segments of the Company for which separate financial information is available and for which segment results are evaluated regularly by the Chief Executive
Officer in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.      Segment operating results reflect earnings before
corporate and unallocated shared expenses, restructuring and impairment charges, other income (expense), net interest expense, income taxes, and noncontrolling interests. Segment operating income includes equity in the income of investees. Equity
investees consist primarily of AETN/Lifetime, which is a cable business included in the Media Networks segment. Corporate and unallocated shared expenses principally consist of corporate functions, executive management, and certain unallocated
administrative support functions.      Equity in the income of investees by segment is as follows:   

(1)   
      Substantially all of these amounts relate to investments at Cable Networks.
        Beginning fiscal 2011, the Company made changes to certain transfer pricing arrangements between its
business units. The most significant change was to the allocation of home video revenue and distribution costs between the Media Networks and Studio Entertainment segments for home video titles produced by the Media Networks segment and distributed
by the Studio Entertainment segment. These changes will generally result in higher revenues, expenses and operating income at our Media Networks segment with offsetting declines at our Studio Entertainment segment.   
  The following segment results include allocations of certain costs, including information technology, pension, legal, and other shared
services costs, which are allocated based on metrics designed to correlate with consumption. These allocations are agreed-upon amounts between the businesses and may differ from amounts that would be negotiated in arm s length transactions. In
addition, all significant intersegment transactions have been eliminated except that Studio Entertainment revenues and operating income include an allocation of Consumer Products and Interactive Media revenues, which is meant to reflect royalties on
sales of merchandise based on certain Studio film properties.   
         66   

Table of Contents  

67   

Table of Contents  

68   

Table of Contents  

(1      )  
    
    Identifiable assets include amounts associated with equity method investments. Equity method investments by segment are as follows:

(2      )  
    
    Goodwill and intangible assets by segment are as follows:      

(3      )  
    
    Primarily fixed assets, deferred tax assets, cash and cash equivalents.      

(4)         
        Advertising
revenue includes amounts reported in Interactive Media.          

(      5      )      
    Long-lived assets include total assets less current assets, long-term receivables, deferred taxes, financial investments and derivatives recorded in
other non-current assets.          

2    
  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     
    Principles of Consolidation       The consolidated financial statements of the Company include the accounts of The Walt Disney Company and its majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated in consolidation. In December 1999, DVD Financing, Inc. (DFI), a subsidiary of Disney Vacation Development, Inc. and an indirect subsidiary of the Company, completed a receivables sale transaction that established a facility that
permitted DFI to sell receivables arising from the sale of vacation club memberships on a periodic basis. In connection with this facility, DFI prepares separate financial statements, although its separate assets and liabilities are also
consolidated in these financial statements. DFI s ability to sell new receivables under this facility ended on December 4, 2008. (See Note 16 for further discussion of this facility)   
  The Company enters into relationships or investments with other entities, and in certain instances, the entity in which the Company has a
relationship or investment may qualify as a variable interest entity ( VIE ). A VIE is consolidated in the financial statements if the Company has the power to direct activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of
the VIE and has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Disneyland Paris, Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and Shanghai Disney Resort are VIEs, and given the nature
of the Company s relationships with these entities, which include management agreements, the Company has consolidated Disneyland Paris, Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and Shanghai Disney Resort in its financial statements.   
         69   

Table of Contents  

    Reporting Period       The Company s fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to September 30 and consists of fifty-two weeks with the exception that approximately every six years, we have a fifty-three week year.
When a fifty-three week year occurs, the Company reports the additional week in the fourth quarter. Fiscal 2009 was a fifty-three week year beginning on September 28, 2008 and ending on October 3, 2009.   
   Reclassifications    
  Certain reclassifications have been made in the fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 financial statements and notes to conform to the fiscal 2011
presentation.       Use of Estimates       The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial
statements and footnotes thereto. Actual results may differ from those estimates.       Revenue Recognition    
  Broadcast advertising revenues are recognized when commercials are aired. Revenues from television subscription services related to the
Company s primary cable programming services are recognized as services are provided. Certain of the Company s contracts with cable and satellite operators include annual live programming commitments. In these cases, recognition of
revenues subject to the commitments is deferred until the annual commitments are satisfied, which generally results in higher revenue recognition in the second half of the year.   
  Revenues from advance theme park ticket sales are recognized when the tickets are used. For non-expiring, multi-day tickets, revenues are
recognized over a four-year time period based on estimated usage, which is derived from historical usage patterns.      Revenues
from the theatrical distribution of motion pictures are recognized when motion pictures are exhibited. Revenues from DVD and video game sales, net of anticipated returns and customer incentives, are recognized on the date that video units are made
available for sale by retailers. Revenues from the licensing of feature films and television programming are recorded when the content is available for telecast by the licensee and when certain other conditions are met.   
  Merchandise licensing advances and guarantee royalty payments are recognized based on the contractual royalty rate when the licensed
product is sold by the licensee. Non-refundable advances and minimum guarantee royalty payments in excess of royalties earned are generally recognized as revenue at the end of the contract term.   
  Revenues from our internet and mobile operations are recognized as services are rendered. Advertising revenues at our internet operations
are recognized when advertisements are viewed online.      Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities
are presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income on a net basis.       Allowance for Doubtful Accounts    
  The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts to reserve for potentially uncollectible receivables. The allowance for doubtful
accounts is estimated based on our analysis of trends in overall receivables aging, specific identification of certain receivables that are at risk of not being paid, past collection experience and current economic trends. In times of domestic or
global economic turmoil, the Company s estimates and judgments with respect to the collectability of its receivables are subject to greater uncertainty than in more stable periods.       Advertising Expense       Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
Advertising expense for fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $2.8 billion, $2.6 billion, and $2.7 billion, respectively.       Cash and Cash
Equivalents       Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand and marketable securities with original maturities of three
months or less.   
         70   

Table of Contents  

    Investments       Debt securities that the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as  held-to-maturity  and reported at amortized cost. Debt securities not classified as
held-to-maturity and marketable equity securities are classified as either  trading  or  available-for-sale . Trading and available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in
earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss), respectively. All other equity securities are accounted for using either the cost method or the equity method.      The Company regularly reviews its investments to determine whether a decline in fair value below the cost basis is other than temporary. If the decline in fair value is determined to be other than
temporary, the cost basis of the investment is written down to fair value.       Translation Policy    
  The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the majority of our international operations. The local currency is the functional currency
for Disneyland Paris, Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, Shanghai Disney Resort and international locations of The Disney Stores.   
  For U.S. dollar functional currency locations, foreign currency assets and liabilities are remeasured into U.S. dollars at end-of-period
exchange rates, except for nonmonetary balance sheet accounts, which are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Revenue and expenses are remeasured at average exchange rates in effect during each period, except for those expenses related to the
non-monetary balance sheet amounts, which are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in income.      For local currency functional locations, assets and liabilities are translated at end-of-period rates while revenues and expenses are translated at average rates in effect during the period. Equity is
translated at historical rates and the resulting cumulative translation adjustments are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss).       Inventories       Inventory primarily includes vacation timeshare units,
merchandise, materials, and supplies. Carrying amounts of vacation ownership units are recorded at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Carrying amounts of merchandise, materials, and supplies inventories are generally determined on a moving
average cost basis and are recorded at the lower of cost or market.       Film and Television Costs    
  Film and television costs include capitalizable production costs, production overhead, interest, development costs, and acquired
production costs and are stated at the lower of cost, less accumulated amortization, or fair value. Acquired programming costs for the Company s television and cable networks are stated at the lower of cost, less accumulated amortization, or
net realizable value. Acquired television broadcast program licenses and rights are recorded when the license period begins and the program is available for use. Marketing, distribution, and general and administrative costs are expensed as incurred.
     Film and television production, participation and residual costs are expensed over the applicable product life cycle based
upon the ratio of the current period s revenues to estimated remaining total revenues (Ultimate Revenues) for each production. For film productions, Ultimate Revenues include revenues from all sources that will be earned within ten years from
the date of the initial theatrical release. For television series, Ultimate Revenues include revenues that will be earned within ten years from delivery of the first episode, or if still in production, five years from delivery of the most recent
episode, if later. For acquired film libraries, remaining revenues include amounts to be earned for up to twenty years from the date of acquisition. Costs of film and television productions are subject to regular recoverability assessments which
compare the estimated fair values with the unamortized costs. The amount by which the unamortized costs of film and television productions exceed their estimated fair values is written off. Film development costs for projects that have been
abandoned or have not been set for production within three years are generally written off.      The costs of television broadcast
rights for acquired movies, series and other programs are expensed based on the number of times the program is expected to be aired or on a straight-line basis over the useful life, as appropriate. Rights costs for multi-year sports programming
arrangements are amortized during the applicable seasons based on the estimated relative value of each year in the arrangement. The estimated values of each year are based on our projections of revenues over the contract period which include
advertising revenue and an allocation of affiliate revenue. If the annual contractual payments related to each season approximate each season s relative value, we expense the related contractual payments during the applicable season. Individual
programs are written off when there are no plans to air or sublicense the program.         
         71   

Table of Contents  

   The net realizable values of network television broadcast program licenses and rights are
reviewed using a daypart methodology. A daypart is defined as an aggregation of programs broadcast during a particular time of day or programs of a similar type. The Company s dayparts are: daytime, late night, primetime, news, children, and
sports (includes network and cable). The net realizable values of other cable programming assets are reviewed on an aggregated basis for each cable channel.       Internal-Use Software Costs       The Company expenses costs incurred in the
preliminary project stage of developing or acquiring internal use software, such as research and feasibility studies, as well as costs incurred in the post-implementation/operational stage, such as maintenance and training. Capitalization of
software development costs occurs only after the preliminary-project stage is complete, management authorizes the project, and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used for the function intended. As of
October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010, capitalized software costs, net of accumulated depreciation, totaled $486 million and $476 million, respectively. The capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
life of the software, ranging from 3-10 years.       Software Product Development Costs    
  Software product development costs incurred prior to reaching technological feasibility are expensed. We have determined that
technological feasibility of our video game software is generally not established until substantially all product development is complete.   
   Parks, Resorts and Other Property       Parks, resorts, and other property are carried at historical cost. Depreciation is computed on the straight-line method over estimated useful lives as follows:   

Attractions   
      
  25   40 years   
 
    Buildings and improvements   
      
  20   40 years   
 
    Leasehold improvements   
      
  Life of lease or asset life if less   
 
    Land improvements   
      
  20   40 years   
 
    Furniture, fixtures and equipment   
      
  3   25 years   
     Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets    
  The Company is required to test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and if current
events or circumstances require, on an interim basis. Goodwill is allocated to various reporting units, which are generally an operating segment or one level below the operating segment. The Company compares the fair value of each reporting unit to
its carrying amount to determine if there is potential goodwill impairment. If the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of the goodwill within the reporting
unit is less than the carrying value of the goodwill.      To determine the fair value of our reporting units, we generally use a
present value technique (discounted cash flow) corroborated by market multiples when available and as appropriate. We apply what we believe to be the most appropriate valuation methodology for each of our reporting units. We include in the
projected cash flows an estimate of the revenue we believe the reporting unit would receive if the intellectual property developed by the reporting unit that is being used by other reporting units was licensed to an unrelated third party at its fair
market value. These amounts are not necessarily the same as those included in segment operating results.      In times of adverse
economic conditions in the global economy, the Company s long-term cash flow projections are subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than usual. If we had established different reporting units or utilized different valuation methodologies or
assumptions, the impairment test results could differ, and we could be required to record impairment charges.      The Company is
required to compare the fair values of other indefinite-lived intangible assets to their carrying amounts. If the carrying amount of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized. Fair values of other
indefinite-lived intangible assets are determined based on discounted cash flows or appraised values, as appropriate.         
         72   

Table of Contents  

   The Company tests long-lived assets, including amortizable intangible assets, for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances (triggering events) indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Once a triggering event has occurred, the impairment test employed is based on whether the intent is to hold the asset for
continued use or to hold the asset for sale. The impairment test for assets held for use requires a comparison of cash flows expected to be generated over the useful life of an asset group against the carrying value of the asset group. An asset
group is established by identifying the lowest level of cash flows generated by a group of assets that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and could include assets used across multiple businesses or segments. If the carrying
value of the asset group exceeds the estimated undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment would be measured as the difference between the fair value of the group s long-lived assets and the carrying value of the group s long-lived
assets. The impairment is allocated to the long-lived assets of the group on a pro rata basis using the relative carrying amount, but only to the extent the carrying value of each asset is above its fair value. For assets held for sale, to the
extent the carrying value is greater than the asset s fair value less costs to sell, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference.      During fiscal years 2011 and 2010, the Company tested its goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment, and the impairment charges recorded were not material. During fiscal year 2009, the Company
recorded an impairment charge of $142 million related to FCC radio licenses and a goodwill impairment charge totaling $29 million. The FCC radio license impairment charges reflected overall market declines in certain radio markets in which we
operate. The FCC radio license and goodwill impairment charges, which were determined based on a discounted cash flow model, were recorded in  Restructuring and impairment charges  in the Consolidated Statements of Income.   
  Amortizable intangible assets are generally amortized on a straight-line basis over periods up to 40 years. The costs to periodically
renew our intangible assets are expensed as incurred. The Company has determined that there are currently no legal, competitive, economic or other factors that materially limit the useful life of our FCC licenses and trademarks.   
  The Company expects its aggregate annual amortization expense for existing amortizable intangible assets for fiscal years 2012 through
2016 to be as follows:       
     Risk Management Contracts       In the normal course of business, the Company employs a variety of financial instruments to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and investments in
equity and debt securities, including interest rate and cross-currency swap agreements, and forward and option contracts.      The
Company formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking various hedge transactions. There are two types of derivatives into which the Company
enters: hedges of fair value exposure and hedges of cash flow exposure. Hedges of fair value exposure are entered into in order to hedge the fair value of a recognized asset, liability, or a firm commitment. Hedges of cash flow exposure are entered
into in order to hedge a forecasted transaction (e.g. forecasted revenue) or the variability of cash flows to be paid or received, related to a recognized liability or asset (e.g. floating rate debt).   
  The Company designates and assigns the financial instruments as hedges of forecasted transactions, specific assets or specific
liabilities. When hedged assets or liabilities are sold or extinguished or the forecasted transactions being hedged are no longer expected to occur, the Company recognizes the gain or loss on the designated hedging instruments.   
  Option premiums and unrealized gains on forward contracts and the accrued differential for interest rate and cross-currency swaps to be
received under the agreements are recorded on the balance sheet as other assets. Unrealized losses on forward contracts and the accrued differential for interest rate and cross-currency swaps to be paid under the agreements are included in
liabilities. Realized gains and losses from hedges are classified in the income statement consistent with the accounting treatment of the items being hedged. The Company accrues the differential for interest rate and cross-currency swaps to be paid
or received under the agreements as interest rates and exchange rates change as adjustments to interest expense over the lives of the swaps. Gains and losses on the termination of effective swap agreements, prior to their original maturity, are
deferred and amortized to interest expense over the remaining term of the underlying hedged transactions.         
         73   

Table of Contents  

   The Company enters into risk management contracts that are not designated as hedges and do
not qualify for hedge accounting. These contracts are intended to offset certain economic exposures of the Company and are carried at market value with any changes in value recorded in earnings. Cash flows from hedging activities are classified in
the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows under the same category as the cash flows from the related assets, liabilities or forecasted transactions (see Notes 9 and 17).       Income Taxes       The Company accounts for current and deferred income taxes.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recorded with respect to temporary differences in the accounting treatment of items for financial reporting purposes and for income tax purposes. Where, based on the weight of all available evidence, it
is more likely than not that some amount of recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized, a valuation allowance is established for the amount that, in management s judgment, is sufficient to reduce the deferred tax asset to an amount that
is more likely than not to be realized.      A tax position must meet a minimum probability threshold before a financial statement
benefit is recognized. The minimum threshold is defined as a tax position that is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the applicable taxing authority, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes,
based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefit to be recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.  
   Earnings Per Share       The
Company presents both basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) amounts. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net income attributable to Disney by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS is based upon
the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the year, which is calculated using the treasury-stock method for equity-based awards (Awards). Common equivalent shares are excluded from the computation in
periods for which they have an anti-dilutive effect. Stock options for which the exercise price exceeds the average market price over the period are anti-dilutive and, accordingly, are excluded from the calculation.   
  A reconciliation of the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding and the number of Awards excluded from
the diluted earnings per share calculation, as they were anti-dilutive, are as follows:       

3    
  New Accounting Pronouncements     
    Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables       In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance on revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables effective for the Company s 2011 fiscal year. The guidance revises
the criteria for separating, measuring, and allocating arrangement consideration to each deliverable in a multiple element arrangement. The guidance requires companies to allocate revenue using the relative selling price of each deliverable, which
must be estimated if the company does not have a history of selling the deliverable on a stand-alone basis or third-party evidence of selling price. The Company adopted the provisions of this guidance at the beginning of fiscal year 2011, and the
adoption did not have a material impact on the Company s financial statements.       Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
      In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance on transfers and servicing of financial assets to eliminate the concept of a
qualifying special-purpose entity, change the requirements for off balance sheet accounting for financial assets including limiting the circumstances where off balance sheet treatment for a portion of a financial asset is allowable, and require
additional disclosures. The Company adopted the provisions of this guidance at the beginning of fiscal year 2011, and the adoption did not have a material impact on the Company s financial statements.   
     
         74   

Table of Contents  

    Variable Interest Entities       In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance to revise the approach to determine when a variable interest entity (VIE) should be consolidated. The new consolidation model for VIEs considers whether an entity
has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact a VIE s economic performance and shares in the significant risks and rewards of the VIE. The guidance on VIEs requires companies to continually reassess VIEs to determine if
consolidation is appropriate and provide additional disclosures. The Company adopted the provisions of this guidance at the beginning of fiscal year 2011, and the adoption did not have a material impact on the Company s financial statements.
      Employee Compensation   Retirement Benefits       In September 2006, the FASB issued guidance that requires recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans as an asset or liability in the
statement of financial position and changes in that funded status to be recognized in comprehensive income in the year in which the changes occur. The guidance on retirement benefits also requires measurement of the funded status of a plan as of the
end of the fiscal year. The Company adopted the recognition provision in fiscal year 2007 which resulted in a $261 million charge to accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company adopted the measurement date provision by remeasuring plan
assets and benefit obligations at the beginning of fiscal 2009. Adoption of the measurement date provisions resulted in a reduction of $35 million to retained earnings and a $100 million benefit to accumulated other comprehensive income.   
  Key assumptions used for the measurement of pension and postretirement medical plans at the beginning of fiscal 2009 were 7.80% for the
discount rate, 7.50% for the rate of return on plan assets, and 5.00% for salary increases. Based on this measurement of plan assets and benefit obligations, pension and postretirement medical costs for fiscal 2009 were $214 million.   

4    
  Acquisitions     
    UTH Russia Limited       On November 18, 2011, the Company acquired a 49% ownership interest in the Seven TV network from UTH Russia Limited (UTH) for $300 million. The Seven TV network will be converted to an ad-supported,
free-to-air Disney Channel in Russia.       UTV       On May 9, 2008, the Company acquired a 24% interest (bringing its undiluted interest to 37%) in UTV Software Communications Limited (UTV), a media company headquartered and publicly traded in India,
for approximately $197 million. In accordance with Indian securities regulations, the Company was required to make an open tender offer to purchase up to an additional 23% of UTV s publicly traded voting shares for a price equivalent to
the May 9th, 2008 Indian rupee purchase price. In November 2008, the Company completed the open offer and acquired an incremental 23% of UTV s voting shares for approximately $138 million bringing its undiluted interest to 60%. UTV s
founder has a four-year option which expires in November 2012 to buy all or a portion of the shares acquired by the Company during the open-offer period at a price no less than the Company s open-offer price. The Company does not have the right
to vote the shares subject to the option until the expiration of the option and accordingly the Company s ownership interest in voting shares was 48%. In January 2010, UTV issued additional shares in exchange for the outstanding noncontrolling
interest of one of its subsidiaries diluting the Company s direct interest in UTV to 50% (39% voting interest).      In
fiscal 2009, the Company wrote down its investment in UTV to fair value and recorded non-cash impairment charges totaling $65 million. The fair value of the Company s investment in UTV was estimated based on the Company s internal
valuation of the UTV business using an income approach (discounted cash flow model). The Company believes the principal market for its long-term strategic investment in UTV would be a privately negotiated transaction with another strategic investor
and that the participants in this market would value this investment using the income approach. Accordingly, the income approach provided the most appropriate indicator of fair value of the Company s investment in UTV rather than the price of
individual shares traded on Indian stock exchanges.      On July 25, 2011, the UTV board of directors approved a proposal
submitted by the Company to acquire the publicly held shares of UTV through a delisting offer process. Subsequently, the UTV shareholders approved the delisting of UTV s equity shares from the Indian stock exchanges. The delisting process is
governed by Indian law and will, if completed, involve an offer by the Company to acquire shares publicly traded on the Indian stock exchanges at a price determined through the offer process. The final offer price is subject to the Company s
acceptance and is currently limited in the Company s proposal to 1,000 Indian rupees per share. The Company s proposal also contemplates the purchase of all shares held by the founder of UTV, which constitute 20% of UTV, at the final offer
price. The founder s shares and the publicly held shares constitute all the UTV shares that the Company does not currently own. The transaction is subject to, among other things, Indian regulatory approval and the Company s acceptance of
the price per share that results from the delisting offer process. If completed, the Company s interest in UTV would increase to at least 90% and result in a delisting of UTV s shares.   
         75   

Table of Contents  

    Playdom       On August 27, 2010, the Company acquired Playdom, Inc. (Playdom), a company that develops online social games. This acquisition is designed to strengthen the Company s digital gaming portfolio
and provide access to a new customer base. Total consideration was approximately $563 million, subject to certain conditions and adjustments, of which approximately $108 million is subject to vesting conditions and recognized as post-close
compensation expense. Additional consideration of up to $200 million may be paid if Playdom achieves predefined revenues and earnings targets for calendar year 2012. The Company has recognized the fair value (determined by a probability weighting of
the potential payouts) of the additional consideration as a liability and subsequent changes in the estimate of fair value up to the ultimate amount to be paid, will be recognized in earnings.   
   The Disney Store Japan    
  On March 31, 2010, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Retail Networks Company Limited (The Disney Store Japan) in
exchange for a $17 million note. At the time of the acquisition, The Disney Store Japan had a cash balance of $13 million. In connection with the acquisition, the Company recognized a $22 million non-cash gain from the deemed termination of the
existing licensing arrangement. The gain is reported in  Other income  in the fiscal 2010 Consolidated Statement of Income.   
   Marvel       On
December 31, 2009, the Company completed a cash and stock acquisition for the outstanding capital stock of Marvel Entertainment, Inc. (Marvel), a character-based entertainment company. This acquisition is consistent with the Company s
strategic value creation through utilization of intellectual properties across Disney s multiple platforms and territories.      The acquisition purchase price totaled $4.2 billion. In accordance with the terms of the acquisition, Marvel shareholders received $30 per share in cash and 0.7452 Disney shares for each Marvel share they
owned. In total, the Company paid $2.4 billion in cash and distributed shares valued at $1.9 billion (approximately 59 million shares of Disney common stock at a price of $32.25).   
  The Company is required to allocate the purchase price to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed
based on their fair values. The excess of the purchase price over those fair values is recorded as goodwill.      The following table summarizes
our allocation of the purchase price:       
    Intangible assets primarily consist of character-based intellectual property with an estimated useful
life of approximately 40 years.      The goodwill reflects the value to Disney from leveraging Marvel intellectual property across
our distribution channels, taking advantage of Disney s established global reach. The goodwill recorded as part of this acquisition is not amortizable for tax purposes.   
         76   

Table of Contents  

    AETN / Lifetime       On September 15, 2009, the Company and the Hearst Corporation (Hearst) both contributed their 50% interests in Lifetime Entertainment Services LLC (Lifetime) to A E Television Networks, LLC
(AETN) in exchange for an increased interest in AETN. Prior to this transaction, the Company and Hearst each held 37.5% of AETN while NBC Universal (NBCU) held 25%. The Company accounted for the transaction as a sale of a portion of its interest in
Lifetime which resulted in a $228 million non-cash pre-tax gain ($142 million after-tax) reflecting the difference between the Company s carrying amount of the Lifetime interest sold and the fair value of the incremental AETN interest received.
Following the transaction the Company s ownership interest in the combined AETN/Lifetime is approximately 42%. Under the terms of the agreement, NBCU may elect or be required to exit the combined AETN/Lifetime over a period of up to 15 years,
in which event the Company and Hearst would each own 50%. The Company accounts for its interest in the combined AETN/Lifetime as an equity method investment consistent with how it previously accounted for AETN and Lifetime.   
   Jetix Europe       In
December 2008, the Company acquired an additional 26% interest in Jetix Europe N.V., a publicly traded pan-European kids  entertainment company, for approximately $354 million (bringing our total ownership interest to over 99%). The Company
intends to acquire the remaining outstanding shares through market purchases and other means. The Company re-branded the Jetix channels to either Disney Channel or Disney XD.       Goodwill       The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years
ended October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010 are as follows:       

(1)    
    The amount for Studio Entertainment includes a reclassification of $232 million for Miramax goodwill to  Other Assets  in the fiscal 2010
Consolidated Balance Sheet. See Note 5.         The carrying amount of goodwill at October 1,
2011, October 2, 2010 and October 3, 2009 includes accumulated impairments of $29 million at Interactive Media.       

5    
  Dispositions and Other Income (Expense)     
   Miramax       On
December 3, 2010, the Company sold Miramax Film NY, LLC (Miramax) for $663 million. Net proceeds which reflect closing adjustments, the settlement of related claims and obligations and Miramax s cash balance at closing were $532 million,
resulting in a pre-tax gain of $64 million, which is reported in  Other income  in the fiscal 2011 Consolidated Statement of Income. The book value of Miramax included $217 million of allocated goodwill that is not deductible for tax
purposes. Accordingly, tax expense recorded in connection with the transaction was approximately $103 million resulting in an after tax loss of $39 million.   
         77   

Table of Contents  

    Other Dispositions       The following dispositions occurred during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009:       

On November 1, 2010, the Company sold its interest in Bass LLC for $5 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $11 million

On May 12, 2010, the Company sold the rights and assets related to the Power Rangers property for $65 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $43
million          

On January 27, 2010, the Company sold its investment in a pay television service in Europe for $78 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $48
million          

On November 25, 2009, the Company sold its investment in a television service in Europe for $37 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $27
million          

On December 22, 2008, the Company sold its investment in two pay television services in Latin America, for approximately $185 million, resulting
in a pre-tax gain of $114 million         These gains are reported in  Other income (expense)  in the
Consolidated Statements of Income.       Other income       Other income is as follows:       

6    
  Investments        Investments
consist of the following:       

(1)    
    Equity investments consist of investments in companies over which the Company has significant influence but not the majority of the equity or risks and
rewards.      
         78   

Table of Contents  

    Investments, Equity Basis       A summary of combined financial information for equity investments, which primarily includes cable investments such as AETN/Lifetime, is as follows:   

Investments, Other       As of October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010, the Company held $183 million and $79 million, respectively, of securities classified as available-for-sale and $163 million and $275 million,
respectively, of non-publicly traded cost-method investments.      In fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009 the Company had no significant
gains or losses on available-for-sale securities.      In fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded non-cash charges of $24
million, $26 million and $86 million, respectively, to reflect other-than-temporary losses in value of certain investments. The charge in 2009 was primarily related to our investment in UTV.   
         79   

Table of Contents  

7    
  International Theme Park Investments        The Company has a 51% effective ownership interest in the operations of Disneyland Paris, a 47% ownership interest in the operations of Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and a 43% ownership interest in the
operations of Shanghai Disney Resort, all of which are VIEs and are consolidated in the Company s financial statements. See Note 2 for the Company s policy on consolidating VIEs.   
  The following tables present summarized balance sheet information for the Company as of October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010,
reflecting the impact of consolidating the balance sheets of Disneyland Paris, Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, and Shanghai Disney Resort.       

80   

Table of Contents  

   The following table presents summarized income statement information of the Company for the
year ended October 1, 2011, reflecting the impact of consolidating the income statements of Disneyland Paris, Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, and Shanghai Disney Resort.   

(1)    
    These amounts include Disneyland Paris, Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and Shanghai Disney Resort under the equity method of accounting. As such, royalty
and management fee income from these operations is included in Revenues and our share of their net income/(loss) is included in Equity in the income of investees.      
  The following table presents summarized cash flow statement information of the Company for the year ended October 1, 2011,
reflecting the impact of consolidating the cash flow statements of Disneyland Paris, Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, and Shanghai Disney Resort.       
     Disneyland Paris Financial Restructuring       Effective October 1, 2004, Disneyland Paris, the Company, and Disneyland Paris s lenders finalized a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) related to the financial restructuring of Disneyland Paris (the
2005 Financial Restructuring) which provided for new financing as well as the restructuring of Disneyland Paris s existing financing at that time. The transactions contemplated by the MOA were fully implemented on February 23, 2005 with
the completion of a  253 million equity rights offering in which the Company invested  100 million. The MOA included provisions for a ten-year  100 million line of credit from the Company for liquidity needs which has not been
drawn and deferral of certain royalties and management fees payable by Disneyland Paris to the Company as follows:       

Royalties and management fees for fiscal 2005 through fiscal 2009, totaling  125 million, payable to the Company have been deferred and
converted into subordinated long-term borrowings          

Royalties and management fees for fiscal 2007 through fiscal 2014, of up to  25 million per year, are subject to conditional deferral and
conversion into subordinated long-term borrowings if operating results do not achieve specified levels. Royalties and management fees for fiscal 2008 and 2007, subject to conditional deferral, were not deferred and have been paid. Royalties and
management fees for fiscal 2010 and 2009, subject to conditional deferral, have been deferred and converted into subordinated long-term borrowings. Based on operating results and subject to third-party confirmation, the Company will defer
 25 million of royalties and management fees subject to conditional deferral for fiscal 2011. The Company also deferred an additional  9 million of royalties so that Disneyland Paris could comply with its annual financial covenants.
(See further discussion in Note 9)      
         81   

Table of Contents  

   Certain indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries of The Walt Disney Company have liability as
current or former general partners of Disney S.C.A. In addition to their equity interest in Disney S.C.A., certain of these subsidiaries of the Company have been capitalized with interest-bearing demand notes with an aggregate face value of
 200 million. In addition, interest of  41 million has accrued on the notes from the date of issuance and has been added to the amount owed.       Hong Kong Disneyland Resort Capital Realignment       In July 2009, the Company
entered into a capital realignment and expansion plan for Hong Kong Disneyland Resort (HKDL) with the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR), HKDL s majority shareholder. Key provisions of the plan include:

The Company converted its $354 million term and revolving credit facility loan to HKDL into equity during fiscal 2009. This was accompanied by
conversion of an equal amount of the HKSAR loan to HKDL into equity          

The Company would make approximately $0.4 billion of equity contributions to fund HKDL during the expansion, which is currently scheduled to be
completed in phases by 2013. The actual amount of equity contributions by the Company may differ depending on the actual final cost of the expansion and operating results of HKDL during the relevant timeframe. The HKSAR will convert an additional
amount of its loan to HKDL equal to these contributions into equity, subject to a maximum conversion amount that would leave approximately HK $1.0 billion ($128 million at October 1, 2011 exchange rates) of the HKSAR loan to HKDL outstanding.
At October 1, 2011, the HKSAR loan to HKDL was $330 million. During fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company made equity contributions totaling $153 million, $66 million and $40 million, respectively.      
  As a result of the above arrangement, the Company s interest in HKDL has increased from 43% to 47% and is projected to increase to
approximately 48% although the Company s ending ownership will depend on the aggregate amount of equity contributions made by the Company pursuant to the expansion plan.       Shanghai Disney Resort       On April 8, 2011, the Company and Shanghai
Shendi (Group) Co., Ltd (Shendi) announced that the Chinese central government in Beijing had approved an agreement to build and operate a Disney resort in the Pudong district of Shanghai (Shanghai Disney Resort) that is operated through a joint
venture between the Company and Shendi, in which Shendi owns a 57% interest and the Company owns 43%. Shanghai Disney Resort is scheduled to open in approximately five years. The project will be constructed in phases, and we expect the total
investment to be approximately 24.5 billion yuan to build the theme park and an additional 4.5 billion yuan to build other aspects of the resort, including two hotels and a retail, dining and entertainment area. The Company will finance 43% of the
initial investment in accordance with its equity ownership percentage. The Company consolidates Shanghai Disney Resort for financial statement reporting purposes due to the Company s involvement in the management of the resort.   

8    
  Film and Television Costs     
   Film and Television costs are as follows:   

82   

Table of Contents  

   Based on management s total gross revenue estimates as of October 1, 2011,
approximately 76% of unamortized film and television costs for released productions (excluding amounts allocated to acquired film and television libraries) is expected to be amortized during the next three years. During fiscal year 2016, we expect
an amortization level of 80% will be reached. Approximately $763 million of accrued participation and residual liabilities will be paid in fiscal year 2012. The Company expects to amortize, based on current estimates, approximately $1.1 billion
in capitalized film and television production costs during fiscal 2012.      At October 1, 2011, acquired film and television
libraries have remaining unamortized costs of $252 million, which are generally amortized straight-line over a weighted-average remaining period of approximately 9 years.   

9    
  Borrowings     
   The Company s borrowings at October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010, including the impact of interest rate
swaps designated as hedges, are summarized below:       

(1)    
    The stated interest rate represents the weighted-average coupon rate for each category of borrowings. For floating rate borrowings, interest rates are
based upon the rates at October 1, 2011; these rates are not necessarily an indication of future interest rates.          

(2)    
    Amounts represent notional values of interest rate and cross-currency swaps as of October 1, 2011.      

(3)    
    The effective interest rate includes the impact of existing and terminated interest rate and cross-currency swaps on the stated rate of interest and
reflects the estimated market interest rate for certain Disneyland Paris borrowings as of the time that they were modified during the 2005 Financial Restructuring. Other adjustments to the stated interest rate such as purchase accounting adjustments
and debt issuance costs did not have a material impact on the overall effective interest rate.          
     Commercial Paper       At October 1, 2011, the Company had $1.6 billion of commercial paper debt outstanding. In February 2011, the Company entered into a new four-year $2.25 billion bank facility with a syndicate of
lenders. This facility, in combination with an existing $2.25 billion bank facility that matures in 2013, is used to support commercial paper borrowings. These bank facilities allow for borrowings at LIBOR-based rates plus a spread, which depends on
the Company s public debt rating and can range from 0.33% to 4.50%. The Company also has the ability to issue up to $800 million of letters of credit under the new facility, which if utilized, reduces available borrowings under this facility.
As of October 1, 2011, $315 million of letters of credit had been issued of which $47 million was issued under this facility. The Company s bank facilities contain only one financial covenant, relating to interest coverage, which the
Company met on October 1, 2011 by a significant margin. The Company s bank facilities also specifically exclude certain entities, including Disneyland Paris, Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and Shanghai Disney Resort, from any representations,
covenants, or events of default.   
         83   

Table of Contents  

    Shelf Registration Statement       At October 1, 2011, the Company had a shelf registration statement which allows the Company to issue various types of debt instruments, such as fixed or floating rate notes, U.S. dollar or foreign
currency denominated notes, redeemable notes, global notes, and dual currency or other indexed notes. Issuances under the shelf registration will require the filing of a prospectus supplement identifying the amount and terms of the securities to be
issued. Our ability to issue debt is subject to market conditions and other factors impacting our borrowing capacity.       U.S. Medium-Term
Note Program       At October 1, 2011, the total debt outstanding under U.S. medium-term note programs was $8.4 billion.
The maturities of current outstanding borrowings range from 1 to 82 years and stated interest rates range from 0% to 7.55%.       European
Medium-Term Note Program       At October 1, 2011, the Company had a European medium-term note program for the issuance of
various types of debt instruments such as fixed or floating rate notes, U.S. dollar or foreign currency denominated notes, redeemable notes and index linked or dual currency notes. The size of the program is $4.0 billion. The remaining capacity
under the program is $3.9 billion, subject to market conditions and other factors impacting our borrowing capacity. The remaining capacity under the program replenishes as outstanding debt under the program matures. At October 1, 2011, the
outstanding debt under the program was $91 million, which matures in 2013 and has a stated interest rate of 1.65%. The Company has outstanding borrowings under the program denominated in Japanese Yen (JPY).   
   Other Foreign Currency Denominated Debt       In connection with the acquisition of Club Penguin Entertainment, Inc. in July 2007, the Company executed a credit agreement denominated in Canadian dollars (CAD) and borrowed CAD328 million ($317 million
at October 1, 2011 exchange rate). The loan bears interest at CAD LIBOR plus 0.225% (1.42% at October 1, 2011) and matures in 2013.      In July 2008, the Company executed a loan agreement denominated in JPY and borrowed JPY54 billion ($703 million at October 1, 2011 exchange rate). The loan bears interest at Japanese LIBOR plus 0.42%
(0.61% at October 1, 2011) and matures in 2013.       Capital Cities/ABC Debt    
  In connection with the Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. acquisition in 1996, the Company assumed various debt previously issued by Capital
Cities/ABC, Inc. At October 1, 2011, the outstanding balance was $114 million, matures in 2021 and has a stated interest rate of 8.75%.   
   Disneyland Paris Borrowings        
     Disneyland Paris   Caisse des D p ts et Consignations (CDC) loans.  Pursuant to
Disneyland Paris s original financing and the terms of a 1994 financial restructuring, Disneyland Paris borrowed funds from the CDC, a French state bank. As of October 1, 2011, these borrowings consisted of approximately
 237 million ($322 million at October 1, 2011 exchange rate) of senior debt and  272 million ($369 million at October 1, 2011 exchange rate) of subordinated debt. The senior debt is collateralized primarily by the
Disneyland Park, certain hotels, and land assets of Disneyland Paris with a net book value of approximately  1.1 billion ($1.5 billion at October 1, 2011 exchange rate), whereas the subordinated debt is unsecured. Interest on the senior
and subordinated debt is payable semiannually. Of these CDC loans,  466 million ($633 million at October 1, 2011 exchange rate) bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.34%. The remaining CDC loans of  42 million ($58 million at
October 1, 2011 exchange rate) bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.33%. The loans mature from fiscal year 2012 to fiscal year 2024.   
         84   

Table of Contents  

   Disneyland Paris also executed a credit agreement with the CDC to finance a portion of the
construction costs of Walt Disney Studios Park. As of October 1, 2011, approximately  551 million ($749 million at October 1, 2011 exchange rate) of subordinated loans were outstanding under this agreement. The loans bear
interest at a fixed rate of 5.15% per annum. The loans mature between fiscal years 2015 and 2028.      Pursuant to the 2005
Financial Restructuring, the CDC agreed to conditionally defer and convert to subordinated long-term borrowings, if operating results do not achieve specified levels, interest payments up to a maximum amount of  20 million ($27 million at
October 1, 2011 exchange rate) per year for fiscal year 2005 through fiscal year 2012 and  23 million ($31 million at October 1, 2011 exchange rate) for each of the fiscal years 2013 and 2014. Disneyland Paris has deferred
 20 million of interest originally payable for each of fiscal year 2005 and 2006 as well as  7 million of accrued interest on these amounts (collectively  47 million). Disneyland Paris did not defer any CDC interest for
fiscal years 2007 and 2008. Disneyland Paris deferred  20 million ($27 million at October 1, 2011 exchange rate) of interest related to fiscal year 2009 and 2010, deferred  15 million ($21 million at October 1, 2011
exchange rate) of interest related to fiscal 2011, and will defer the remaining  5 million ($7 million at October 1, 2011 exchange rate) related to fiscal 2011 in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. The interest deferral related to
fiscal 2011 is subject to third party confirmation of Disneyland Paris s operating results.       Disneyland Paris  
Credit facilities and other.  Pursuant to Disneyland Paris s original financing with a syndicate of international banks and the terms of a 1994 financial restructuring, Disneyland Paris borrowed funds which are collateralized primarily by
the Disneyland Park, the hotels, and land assets of Disneyland Paris with a net book value of approximately  1.1 billion ($1.5 billion at October 1, 2011 exchange rate). At October 1, 2011, the total balance outstanding was
 85 million ($116 million at October 1, 2011 exchange rate). The loans mature between fiscal years 2012 and 2013 and bear interest at a rate of EURIBOR plus 3% (4.55% at October 1, 2011).   
   Disneyland Paris   Other advances.  Advances of  304 million ($413 million at October 1, 2011 exchange rate)
bear interest at a fixed rate of 3.0%. The remaining advances of  9 million ($12 million at October 1, 2011 exchange rate) are collateralized by certain hotel assets and bear interest at EURIBOR plus 3% (4.55% at October 1,
2011). The advances are expected to mature between fiscal years 2012 and 2017.      Disneyland Paris has in its debt agreements
certain annual financial performance objectives and limits on investing and financing activities. In fiscal 2011, Disneyland Paris did not meet its annual performance objectives and must defer  25 million of royalties and management fees
payable to the Company and  20 million of interest payable to the CDC. Additionally, as a result of the fact that the performance objectives were not met, certain of Disneyland Paris s investment activities are further limited by the debt
agreements.      Disneyland Paris is also subject to certain financial covenants and believes that it is in compliance with such
covenants with the assistance of the Company s agreement, as permitted under the debt agreements, to defer an additional  9 million of royalties payable to the Company into subordinated long-term borrowings.   
  The deferrals discussed above and compliance with these financial covenants are subject to final third-party review as provided in
Disneyland Paris s debt agreements.       Hong Kong Disneyland Resort   Borrowings.  Hong Kong Disneyland Resort
has an unsecured loan facility of HK$2.6 billion ($330 million at October 1, 2011 exchange rate) from the HKSAR that is scheduled to mature on dates through September 12, 2030. The interest rate on this loan is subject to biannual
revisions, but is capped at an annual rate of 6.75% (until March 12, 2014), 7.625% (until March 12, 2022) and 8.50% (until September 12, 2030). As of October 1, 2011, the rate on the loans was 3.25%.   
   Hong Kong Disneyland Resort Capital Realignment Plan       In July 2009, the Company entered into a capital realignment and expansion plan (the Plan) for Hong Kong Disneyland Resort with the HKSAR. See Note 7 for further details of the Plan.   
  Total borrowings excluding market value adjustments, have the following scheduled maturities:   

85   

Table of Contents  

   The Company capitalizes interest on assets constructed for its parks, resorts, and other
property and on theatrical productions. In 2011, 2010, and 2009, total interest capitalized was $91 million, $82 million, and $57 million, respectively. Interest expense, net of capitalized interest, for 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $435 million, $456
million and $588 million, respectively.       

The valuation allowance principally relates to a $554 million deferred tax asset for the noncontrolling
interest share of operating losses at our consolidated international theme parks. The ultimate utilization of the noncontrolling interest share of the net operating losses, which have an indefinite carryforward period, would not have an impact
on the Company s net income attributable to Disney as any income tax benefit would be offset by a charge to noncontrolling interest in the income statement.   
         86   

Table of Contents  

   As of October 1, 2011, the Company had undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries
of approximately $340 million for which deferred taxes have not been provided. The Company intends to reinvest these earnings for the foreseeable future. If these amounts were distributed to the United States, in the form of dividends or otherwise,
the Company would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes. Assuming the permanently reinvested foreign earnings were repatriated under laws and rates applicable at 2011 fiscal year end, the incremental U.S. tax applicable to the earnings would be
approximately $30 million.      A reconciliation of the effective income tax rate to the federal rate is as follows:   
   
    The  American Jobs Creation Act of 2004  made a number of changes to the income tax laws including
the creation of a deduction for qualifying domestic production activities. The deduction equals three percent of qualifying net income for fiscal 2007, six percent for fiscal 2008 through 2010, and nine percent for fiscal 2011 and thereafter. Our
tax provisions for fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009 reflect benefits of $183 million, $111 million and $100 million, respectively, resulting from this deduction.      A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, excluding the related accrual for interest, is as follows:   
   
    The year end 2011 and 2010 balances include $480 million and $473 million, respectively, that if
recognized, would reduce our income tax expense and effective tax rate. These amounts are net of the offsetting benefits from other tax jurisdictions.      As of the end of fiscal 2011 and 2010, the Company had $175 million and $163 million, respectively, in accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the
Company accrued additional interest of $17 million, $28 million and $27 million, respectively, and recorded reductions in accrued interest of $13 million, $7 million and $12 million, respectively, as a result of audit settlements and other
prior-year adjustments. The Company s policy is to report interest and penalties as a component of income tax expense.   
  During the current year, the Company resolved various refund claims and other matters with tax authorities. The Company is also subject
to U.S. federal, state and local and foreign tax audits. The Company is no longer subject to U.S. Federal examination for years prior to 2008. The Company is no longer subject to examination in any of its major state or foreign tax jurisdictions for
years prior to 2003.      In the next twelve months, it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits could change due
to the resolution of tax matters, including payments on the tax matters discussed above. These resolutions and payments could reduce our unrecognized tax benefits by $93 million.   
  In fiscal 2011 and 2010, income tax benefits attributable to equity-based compensation transactions exceeded the amounts recorded based
on grant date fair value. Accordingly, $109 million and $61 million were credited to shareholders  equity, respectively in these years. In fiscal year 2009, income tax benefits attributable to equity-based compensation transactions were less
than the amounts recorded at grant date and a shortfall of $26 million was charged to shareholder s equity.   
         87   

Table of Contents  

11    
  Pension and Other Benefit Programs     
   The Company maintains pension and postretirement medical benefit plans covering most of its employees not covered by
union or industry-wide plans. Employees generally hired after January 1, 1994 and employees generally hired after January 1, 1987 for certain of our media businesses are not eligible for postretirement medical benefits. With respect to its
defined benefit pension plans, the Company s policy is to fund, at a minimum, the amount necessary on an actuarial basis to provide for benefits in accordance with the requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA). Pension benefits are generally based on years of service and/or compensation.      In fiscal 2011, the Company substantially amended its salaried employees pension plans with respect to benefits earned for service after December 31, 2011. The Company reduced the vesting requirement from
five years of vesting service to three years of vesting service, revised the early retirement reduction factors and excluded employees hired after December 31, 2011 from plan participation. In addition, the percentage of average monthly
compensation on which salary-related benefits are based was reduced while overtime, commissions and regular bonus amounts were added to the calculation of average monthly compensation received after December 31, 2011 to the extent those elements of
compensation were not previously included. These amendments will reduce fiscal 2012 expense by approximately $75 million. The Company intends to provide benefits under new defined contribution plans for employees who begin service after
December 31, 2011.      The following chart summarizes the benefit obligations, assets, funded status and balance sheet
impacts associated with the pension and postretirement medical benefit plans based upon the actuarial valuations prepared as of October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010.   

88   

Table of Contents  

   The components of net periodic benefit cost and key assumptions are as follows:   
   
    Net periodic benefit cost is based on assumptions determined at the prior-year end measurement date.
     Accumulated other comprehensive loss, before tax, as of October 1, 2011 consists of the following amounts that have not
yet been recognized in net periodic benefit cost:       
    Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, before tax, as of October 1, 2011 that are
expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost during fiscal 2012 are:       
     Plan Funded Status       The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and aggregate fair value of plan assets for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $8.7 billion,
$8.1 billion and $5.7 billion, respectively, as of October 1, 2011 and $7.3 billion, $6.8 billion and $4.9 billion as of October 2, 2010, respectively.      For pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets, the projected benefit obligation and aggregate fair value of plan assets were $8.7 billion and $5.7 billion, respectively, as
of October 1, 2011 and $7.3 billion and $4.9 billion as of October 2, 2010, respectively.      The Company s total
accumulated pension benefit obligations at October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010 were $8.8 billion and $7.5 billion, respectively, of which 97% for both years was vested.   
         89   

Table of Contents  

   The accumulated postretirement medical benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets for
postretirement medical plans with accumulated postretirement medical benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $1.6 billion and $0.3 billion, respectively, at October 1, 2011 and $1.3 billion and $0.3 billion, respectively, at
October 2, 2010.       Plan Assets       A significant portion of the assets of the Company s defined benefit plans are managed on a commingled basis in a third party master trust. The investment policy and allocation of the assets in the
master trust were approved by the Company s Investment and Administrative Committee which has oversight responsibility for the Company s retirement plans. The investment policy ranges for the major asset classes are as follows:   
   
    The primary investment objective for the assets within the master trust is to prudently and cost
effectively manage assets to fulfill benefit obligations to plan participants. Financial risks are managed through diversification of plan assets, selection of investment managers and through the investment guidelines incorporated into investment
management agreements. Assets are monitored to ensure that investment returns are commensurate with risks taken.      The
long-term asset allocation policy for the master trust was established taking into consideration a variety of factors that include, but are not limited to, the average age of participants, the number of retirees, the duration of liabilities and the
expected payout ratio. Liquidity needs of the master trust are generally managed using cash generated by investments or by liquidating securities.      Assets are generally managed by external investment managers and we have investment management agreements with respect to securities in the master trust. These agreements include account guidelines that
establish permitted securities and risk controls commensurate with the account s investment strategy. Some agreements permit the use of derivative securities (futures, options, interest rate swaps, credit default swaps) that enable investment
managers to enhance returns and manage exposures within their accounts. Investment managers are prohibited from using derivatives to leverage returns.   
         90   

Table of Contents  

   The Company s defined benefit plans asset mix (including assets held outside of the
master trust) at each fiscal year end is as follows:       
     
     Fair Value Measurements of Plan Assets    
  Fair value is defined as the amount that would be received for selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants. The Company s defined benefit plan assets carried at fair value are classified in the following categories:       

Level 1   Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets      

Level 2   Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not
active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets          

Level 3   Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable
        Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for assets reported at fair value. There
have been no changes in the methodologies used at October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010.      Level 1 investments are
valued based on observable market prices on the last trading day of the year. Investments in common and preferred stocks are valued based on the securities exchange-listed price or a broker s quote in an active market. Investments in U.S.
Treasury securities are valued based on a broker s quote in an active market.      Level 2 investments are valued at
estimated fair value at year-end. Investments in certain government and federal agency bonds, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, and corporate bonds are valued using a broker s quote in a non-active market or an evaluated price based
on a compilation of observable market information, such as benchmark yield curves, credit spreads and estimated default rates. Derivative financial instruments are valued based on models that incorporate observable inputs for the underlying
securities, such as interest rates. Shares in money market and mutual funds are valued at the net asset value of the shares held by the Plan at year-end based on the fair value of the underlying investments.   
  Level 3 investments primarily consist of investments in limited partnerships, which are valued based on the Master Trust s pro-rata
share of partnership holdings as of year-end. The fair value of the underlying investments are estimated using significant unobservable inputs (e.g., discounted cash flow models or relative valuation methods that incorporate comparable market
information such as earnings and cash flow multiples from similar publicly traded companies or real estate properties).   
         91   

Table of Contents  

   The Company s defined benefit plan assets are summarized in the following table by the
categories described above.       

92   

Table of Contents  

   Changes in Level 3 assets for the years ended October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010 are
as follows:       
     Uncalled Capital Commitments       Alternative investments held by the master trust include interests in certain limited partnerships that have rights to make capital calls to the limited partner investors. In such cases, the Master Trust
would be contractually obligated to make a cash capital contribution to the limited partnership at the time of a capital call. At October 1, 2011, the total committed capital still uncalled and unpaid was $462 million.   
   Plan Contributions    
  During fiscal 2011, the Company made contributions to its pension and postretirement medical plans totaling $935 million, which included
discretionary contributions above the minimum requirements for pension plans. The Company currently expects pension and postretirement medical plan contributions in fiscal 2012 to total approximately $325 million to $375 million. Final minimum
funding requirements for fiscal 2012 will be determined based on our January 1, 2012 funding actuarial valuation which will be available in late fiscal 2012.       Estimated Future Benefit Payments       The following table presents estimated
future benefit payments for the next ten fiscal years:       

(1)    
    Estimated future benefit payments are net of expected Medicare subsidy receipts of $64 million.      
   Assumptions       Actuarial
assumptions, such as the discount rate, long-term rate of return on plan assets and the healthcare cost trend rate, have a significant effect on the amounts reported for net periodic benefit cost as well as the related benefit obligations.
      Discount Rate    The assumed discount rate for pension and postretirement medical plans reflects the market rates
for high-quality corporate bonds currently available. The Company s discount rate was determined by considering the average of pension yield curves constructed of a large population of high quality corporate bonds. The resulting discount rate
reflects the matching of plan liability cash flows to the yield curves.   
         93   

Table of Contents  

    Long-term rate of return on plan assets    The long-term rate of return on plan
assets represents an estimate of long-term returns on an investment portfolio consisting of a mixture of equities, fixed income and alternative investments. When determining the long-term rate of return on plan assets, the Company considers
long-term rates of return on the asset classes (both historical and forecasted) in which the Company expects the pension funds to be invested. The following long-term rates of return by asset class were considered in setting the long-term rate of
return on plan assets assumption:       
     Healthcare cost trend rate    The Company reviews external data and its own historical trends
for healthcare costs to determine the healthcare cost trend rates for the postretirement medical benefit plans. For the 2011 actuarial valuation, we assumed an 8.00% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered healthcare claims with
the rate decreasing in even increments over fourteen years until reaching 4.50%.       Sensitivity    A one percentage
point (ppt) change in the key assumptions would have had the following effects on the projected benefit obligations as of October 1, 2011 and on cost for fiscal 2012:   
   
     Multi-employer Plans       The Company participates in various multi-employer pension plans under union and industry-wide agreements. In fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, the contributions to these plans, which are expensed as incurred,
were $59 million, $60 million and $52 million, respectively.       Defined Contribution Plans    
  The Company has savings and investment plans that allow eligible employees to allocate up to 50% of their salary through payroll
deductions depending on the plan in which the employee participates. The Company matches 50% of the employee s pre-tax contribution up to plan limits. In fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, the costs of these plans were $59 million, $54 million and $51
million, respectively.   
     12   Equity   
   As of the filing date of this report, the Board of Directors had not yet declared a dividend related to fiscal 2011.
The Company paid a $0.40 per share dividend ($756 million) during the second quarter of fiscal 2011 related to fiscal 2010. The Company paid a $0.35 per share dividend ($653 million) during the second quarter of fiscal 2010 related to fiscal 2009.
The Company paid a $0.35 per share dividend ($648 million) during the second quarter of fiscal 2009 related to fiscal 2008.   
  During fiscal 2011, the Company repurchased 135 million shares of its common stock for approximately $5.0 billion. During fiscal
2010, the Company repurchased 80 million shares of Disney common stock for $2.7 billion. During fiscal 2009, the Company repurchased 5 million shares of Disney common stock for $138 million. On March 22, 2011, the Company s Board
of Directors increased the amount of shares that can be repurchased to 400 million shares as of that date. As of October 1, 2011, the Company had remaining authorization in place to repurchase 305 million additional shares. The
repurchase program does not have an expiration date.      The par value of the Company s outstanding common stock totaled
approximately $27 million.   
         94   

Table of Contents  

   Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax   (      1)   , is as follows:       

(1)    
    Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and components of other comprehensive income (loss) are recorded net of tax using a 37% estimated
statutory tax rate.      
     13   Equity-Based
Compensation   
   Under various plans, the Company may grant stock options and other equity-based awards to executive, management, and
creative personnel. The Company s approach to long-term incentive compensation contemplates awards of stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs). Certain RSUs awarded to senior executives vest based upon the achievement of market and/or
performance conditions (Performance RSUs).      Stock options are generally granted at exercise prices equal to or exceeding the
market price at the date of grant and become exercisable ratably over a four-year period from the grant date. The following table summarizes contractual terms for our stock option grants:   
   
    At the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Company s Board of Directors, options can
occasionally extend up to 15 years after date of grant.      The following table summarizes vesting terms for our RSUs:

Grant dates   
      
    Vesting Terms    

RSUs:    

Prior to January 2009   
      
    50% on each of the second and fourth anniversaries of the grant date    

Effective January 2009   
      
    Ratably over four years    

Performance RSUs:    

Prior to January 2010   
      
    50% on each of the second and fourth anniversaries of the grant date subject to achieving market and/or performance
conditions    

Effective January 2010   
      
    Fully after three years, subject to achieving performance conditions    
    In March 2011, shareholders of the Company approved the 2011 Stock Incentive Plan, which increased the
number of shares authorized to be awarded as grants by 64 million shares. Shares available for future option and RSU grants at October 1, 2011 totaled 70 million. Starting March 2009 for our primary plan, each share granted subject to a
stock option award reduces the number of shares available by one share while each share granted subject to a RSU award reduces the number of shares available by two shares. The Company satisfies stock option exercises and vesting of RSUs with newly
issued shares. Stock options and RSUs are generally forfeited by employees who terminate prior to vesting.   
         95   

Table of Contents  

   Each year, during the second quarter, the Company awards stock options and restricted stock
units to a broad-based group of management and creative personnel (the Annual Grant). The fair value of options is estimated based on the binomial valuation model. The binomial valuation model takes into account variables such as volatility,
dividend yield, and the risk-free interest rate. The binomial valuation model also considers the expected exercise multiple (the multiple of exercise price to grant price at which exercises are expected to occur on average) and the termination rate
(the probability of a vested option being cancelled due to the termination of the option holder) in computing the value of the option.      In fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, the weighted average assumptions used in the option-valuation model were as follows:       
    Although the initial fair value of stock options is not adjusted after the grant date, changes in the
Company s assumptions may change the value of, and therefore the expense related to, future stock option grants. The assumptions that cause the greatest variation in fair value in the binomial valuation model are the expected volatility and
expected exercise multiple. Increases or decreases in either the expected volatility or expected exercise multiple will cause the binomial option value to increase or decrease, respectively.   
  The volatility assumption considers both historical and implied volatility and may be impacted by the Company s performance as well
as changes in economic and market conditions.      Compensation expense for RSUs and stock options is recognized ratably over the
service period of the award. Compensation expense for RSUs is based on the market price of the shares underlying the awards on the grant date. Compensation expense for Performance RSUs reflects the estimated probability that the market and/or
performance conditions will be met. Effective January 2010, equity-based awards provide continued vesting, in the event of termination, generally for employees that reach age 60 or greater, have at least ten years of service and hold the award for
at least one year.      The impact of stock options/rights and RSUs on income for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 was as follows:

(1)   
      Includes stock appreciation rights issued in connection with the acquisition
of Playdom      

(2)   
      Equity-based compensation expense is net of capitalized equity-based
compensation and excludes amortization of previously capitalized equity-based compensation costs. Amortization of previously capitalized equity-based compensation totaled $57 million, $131 million and $96 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.      
         96   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes information about stock option transactions (shares in
millions):       
    The following tables summarize information about stock options vested and expected to vest at
October 1, 2011 (shares in millions):       

(1)    
    Number of options expected to vest is total unvested options less estimated forfeitures.      
  The following table summarizes information about RSU transactions (shares in millions):   

97   

Table of Contents  

   RSU grants totaled 13 million, 15 million and 15 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, and include 0.4 million shares, 0.4 million shares and 3.0 million shares of Performance RSUs in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Approximately 3.0 million of the unvested RSUs as of October 1, 2011 are
Performance RSUs.      The weighted average grant-date fair values of options granted during 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $10.96,
$9.43 and $7.43, respectively. The total intrinsic value (market value on date of exercise less exercise price) of options exercised and RSUs vested during 2011, 2010 and 2009 totaled $969 million, $830 million, and $252 million, respectively. The
aggregate intrinsic values of stock options vested and expected to vest at October 1, 2011 were $170 million and $68 million, respectively.      As of October 1, 2011, there was $187 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock options and $618 million related to unvested RSUs. That cost is expected to be recognized
over a weighted-average period of 1.5 years for stock options and 1.7 years for RSUs.      Cash received from option exercises for
2011, 2010 and 2009 was $1,128 million, $1,133 million and $119 million, respectively. Tax benefits realized from tax deductions associated with option exercises and RSU activity for 2011, 2010 and 2009 totaled $342 million, $290 million and $90
million, respectively.   
     14   Detail of Certain
Balance Sheet Accounts   

98   

Table of Contents  

(1)   
      Includes unrecognized tax benefits.         

    15    Commitments and
Contingencies   
    Commitments       The Company has various contractual commitments for broadcast rights for sports, feature films and other programming, aggregating approximately $36.1 billion, including approximately $0.7 billion for
available programming as of October 1, 2011, and approximately $33.3 billion related to sports programming rights, primarily NFL, college football (including college bowl games) and basketball conferences, NBA, NASCAR, and MLB.   
  The Company has entered into operating leases for various real estate and equipment needs, including retail outlets and distribution
centers for consumer products, broadcast equipment, and office space for general and administrative purposes. Rental expense for the operating leases during fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, including common-area maintenance and contingent rentals, was
$820 million, $742 million, and $694 million, respectively.      The Company also has contractual commitments for the construction
of one new cruise ship, creative talent and employment agreements and unrecognized tax benefits. Creative talent and employment agreements include obligations to actors, producers, sports personnel, television and radio personalities, and
executives.      Contractual commitments for broadcast programming rights, future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable
operating leases, and creative talent and other commitments totaled $42.4 billion at October 1, 2011, payable as follows:        

99   

Table of Contents  

   The Company has non-cancelable capital leases, primarily for land and broadcast equipment,
which had gross carrying values of $531 million and $449 million at October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010, respectively. Accumulated amortization related to these capital leases totaled $127 million and $108 million at October 1, 2011
and October 2, 2010, respectively. Future payments under these leases as of October 1, 2011 are as follows:       
     Contractual Guarantees       The Company has guaranteed bond issuances by the Anaheim Public Authority that were used by the City of Anaheim to finance construction of infrastructure and a public parking facility adjacent to the
Disneyland Resort. Revenues from sales, occupancy and property taxes from the Disneyland Resort and non-Disney hotels are used by the City of Anaheim to repay the bonds. In the event of a debt service shortfall, the Company will be responsible to
fund the shortfall. As of October 1, 2011, the remaining debt service obligation guaranteed by the Company was $359 million, of which $87 million was principal. To the extent that tax revenues exceed the debt service payments in subsequent
periods, the Company would be reimbursed for any previously funded shortfalls. To date, tax revenues have exceeded the debt service payments for Anaheim bonds.      ESPN STAR Sports, a joint-venture in which ESPN owns a 50% equity interest, has an agreement for global programming rights to International Cricket Council Events from 2007 through 2015. Under the terms
of the agreement, ESPN and the other joint-venture partner have jointly guaranteed the programming rights obligation of approximately $0.7 billion over the remaining term of the agreement.       Legal Matters        Celador International Ltd. v. American Broadcasting
Companies, Inc.  On May 19, 2004, an affiliate of the creator and licensor of the television program,   Who Wants to be a Millionaire,   filed an action against the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, including
American Broadcasting Companies, Inc. and Buena Vista Television, LLC, alleging it was damaged by defendants improperly engaging in certain intra-company transactions and charging merchandise distribution expenses, resulting in an underpayment to
the plaintiff. On July 7, 2010, the jury returned a verdict for breach of contract against certain subsidiaries of the Company, awarding plaintiff damages of $269.4 million. The Company has stipulated with the plaintiff to an
award of prejudgment interest of $50 million, which amount will be reduced pro rata should the Court of Appeals reduce the damages amount. On December 21, 2010, the Company s alternative motions for a new trial and for judgment as a matter
of law were denied. Although we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this lawsuit, the Company believes the jury s verdict is in error and is vigorously pursuing its position on appeal, notice of which was filed by the Company on
January 14, 2011. On or about January 28, 2011, plaintiff filed a notice of cross-appeal. The Company has determined that it does not have a probable loss under the applicable accounting standard relating to probability of loss for
recording a reserve with respect to this litigation and therefore has not recorded a reserve.      The Company, together with, in
some instances, certain of its directors and officers, is a defendant or codefendant in various other legal actions involving copyright, breach of contract and various other claims incident to the conduct of its businesses. Management does not
expect the Company to suffer any material liability by reason of these actions.       Long-Term Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses
      The Company has accounts receivable with original maturities greater than one year in duration principally related to the
Company s sales of program rights in the television syndication markets within the Media Networks segment and vacation ownership units within the Parks and Resorts segment.         
         100

Table of Contents  

   The Company estimates the allowance for credit losses related to receivables for the sale of
syndicated programming based upon a number of factors, including historical experience, and an ongoing review of the financial condition of individual companies with which we do business. The balance of syndication receivables recorded in other
non-current assets, net of an immaterial allowance for credit losses, was approximately $0.9 billion as of October 1, 2011. Activity in fiscal 2011 related to the allowance for credit losses was not material.   
  The Company estimates the allowance for credit losses related to receivables for sales of its vacation ownership units based primarily on
historical collection experience. Projections of uncollectible amounts are also based on consideration of the economic environment and the age of receivables. The balance of mortgage receivables recorded in other non-current assets, net of a related
allowance for credit losses of approximately 5%, was approximately $0.5 billion as of October 1, 2011. The activity in fiscal 2011 related to the allowance for credit losses was not material.   
     16   Fair Value
Measurement   
   The Company s assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized in the following
table by the type of inputs applicable to the fair value measurements. See Note 11 for the definitions of fair value and each level within the fair value hierarchy.       

(1)    
    The Company has master netting arrangements by counterparty with respect to certain derivative contracts. Contracts in a liability position totaling
$167 million and $206 million have been netted against contracts in an asset position in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010, respectively.      
  The fair value of Level 2 investments is primarily determined by reference to market prices based on recent trading activity and other
relevant information including pricing for similar securities as determined by third-party pricing services.         
         101

Table of Contents  

   The fair values of Level 2 derivatives, which consist of interest rate and foreign currency
hedges, are primarily determined based on the present value of future cash flows using internal models that use observable inputs such as interest rates, yield curves and foreign currency exchange rates. Counterparty credit risk, which is mitigated
by master netting agreements and collateral posting arrangements with certain counterparties, did not have a material impact on derivative fair value estimates.      Level 3 residual interests consist of our residual interests in securitized vacation ownership mortgage receivables and are valued using a discounted cash flow model that considers estimated interest
rates, discount rates, prepayment, and defaults. There were no material changes in the residual interests in fiscal 2011.      The
Company also has assets and liabilities that are required to be recorded at fair value on a non-recurring basis when certain circumstances occur. During fiscal years 2011 and 2010, the Company recorded impairment charges of $46 million and $249
million, respectively, on film productions which are reported in  Costs and expenses  in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The film impairment charges compared our estimated fair value using discounted cash flows to the unamortized
cost of the films. The discounted cash flow analysis is a level 3 valuation technique. The aggregate carrying values of the films were $132 million and $591 million prior to the impairment charges for fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively.
      Fair Value of Financial Instruments       In addition to the financial instruments listed above, the Company s financial instruments also include cash, cash equivalents, receivables, accounts payable and borrowings.   
  The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, available-for-sale investments, derivative contracts and accounts payable
approximated the carrying values. The estimated year end fair values of the Company s total borrowings (current and noncurrent) subject to fair value disclosures, determined based on broker quotes or quoted market prices or interest rates for
the same or similar instruments are $14.2 billion and $13.7 billion at October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010, respectively.   
   Transfers of Financial Assets       The Company previously sold mortgage receivables arising from the sales of its vacation ownership units under a facility that expired on December 4, 2008 and was not renewed. The Company sold
$17 million of mortgage receivables during the year ended October 3, 2009, resulting in gain on securitized sales of vacation ownership interests of $4 million for fiscal 2009.   
  The Company continues to service the sold receivables and has a residual interest in those receivables. As of October 1, 2011, the
remaining outstanding principal amount for sold mortgage receivables was $236 million, and the carrying value of the Company s residual interest, which is recorded in other long-term assets, was $40 million.   
  The Company repurchases defaulted mortgage receivables at their outstanding balance. The Company did not make material repurchases in the
years ended October 1, 2011 or October 2, 2010. The Company generally has been able to sell the repurchased vacation ownership units for amounts that exceed the amounts at which they were repurchased.   
  The Company also provides credit support for up to 70% of the outstanding balance of the sold mortgage receivables which the mortgage
receivable acquirer may draw on in the event of losses under the facility. The Company maintains a reserve for estimated credit losses related to these receivables.       Credit Concentrations       The Company continually monitors its positions with,
and the credit quality of, the financial institutions that are counterparties to its financial instruments and does not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties.      The Company does not expect that it would realize a material loss, based on the fair value of its derivative financial instruments as of October 1, 2011, in the event of nonperformance by any single
derivative counterparty. The Company enters into transactions only with derivative counterparties that have a credit rating of A- or better. The Company s current policy regarding agreements with derivative counterparties is generally to
require collateral in the event credit ratings fall below A- or in the event aggregate exposures exceed limits as defined by contract. In addition, the Company limits the amount of investment credit exposure with any one institution.   
  The Company does not have material cash and cash equivalent balances with financial institutions that have a credit rating of less than
investment grade. As of October 1, 2011, the Company s balances that exceeded 10% of cash and cash equivalents with individual financial institutions were 41% compared to 30% as of October 2, 2010.   
     
         102

Table of Contents  

   The Company s trade receivables and financial investments do not represent a
significant concentration of credit risk at October 1, 2011 due to the wide variety of customers and markets into which the Company s products are sold, their dispersion across geographic areas, and the diversification of the
Company s portfolio among issuers.   
     17  
  Derivative Instruments   
   The Company manages its exposure to various risks relating to its ongoing business operations according to a risk
management policy. The primary risks managed with derivative instruments are interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk.   
  The following table summarizes the gross fair value of the Company s derivative positions as of October 1, 2011:   
   
    The following table summarizes the gross fair value of the Company s derivative positions as of
October 2, 2010:       

(1)    
    Refer to Note 16 for further information on derivative fair values and counterparty netting.      
   Interest Rate Risk Management       The Company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes primarily through its borrowing activities. The Company s objective is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and
cash flows and on the market value of its borrowings. In accordance with its policy, the Company targets its fixed-rate debt as a percentage of its net debt between a minimum and maximum percentage. The Company typically uses pay-floating and
pay-fixed interest rate swaps to facilitate its interest rate management activities.   
         103

Table of Contents  

   The Company designates pay-floating interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of fixed-rate
borrowings effectively converting fixed-rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings indexed to LIBOR. As of October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010, the total notional amount of the Company s pay-floating interest rate swaps was $1.2
billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. The following table summarizes adjustments related to fair value hedges included in net interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.   
   
    The Company may designate pay-fixed interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges of interest payments on
floating-rate borrowings. Pay-fixed swaps effectively convert floating rate borrowings to fixed-rate borrowings. The unrealized gains or losses from these cash flow hedges are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) and recognized
in interest expense as the interest payments occur. The Company did not have pay-fixed interest rate swaps that were designated as cash flow hedges of interest payments at October 1, 2011 nor at October 2, 2010.   
   Foreign Exchange Risk Management       The Company transacts business globally and is subject to risks associated with changing foreign currency exchange rates. The Company s objective is to reduce earnings and cash flow fluctuations
associated with foreign currency exchange rate changes, enabling management to focus on core business issues and challenges.   
  The Company enters into option and forward contracts that change in value as foreign currency exchange rates change to protect the value
of its existing foreign currency assets, liabilities, firm commitments and forecasted but not firmly committed foreign currency transactions. In accordance with policy, the Company hedges its forecasted foreign currency transactions for periods
generally not to exceed four years within an established minimum and maximum range of annual exposure. The gains and losses on these contracts offset changes in the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the related forecasted transaction, asset, liability
or firm commitment. The principal currencies hedged are the Euro, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar and British pound. Cross-currency swaps are used to effectively convert foreign currency-denominated borrowings into U.S. dollar denominated borrowings.
     The Company designates foreign exchange forward and option contracts as cash flow hedges of firmly committed and forecasted
foreign currency transactions. As of October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010, the notional amounts of the Company s net foreign exchange cash flow hedges was $3.6 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively. Mark to market gains and losses on
these contracts are deferred in AOCI and are recognized in earnings when the hedged transactions occur, offsetting changes in the value of the foreign currency transactions. Gains and losses recognized related to ineffectiveness for the years ended
October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010 were not material. Net deferred gains recorded in AOCI for contracts that will mature in the next twelve months totaled $33 million. The following table summarizes the pre-tax adjustments to AOCI for
foreign exchange cash flow hedges.       
    Foreign exchange risk management contracts with respect to foreign currency assets and liabilities are
not designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting. The notional amount of these foreign exchange contracts at October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010 was $2.6 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively. During the years ended
October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010, the Company recognized a net gain of $24 million and $102 million, respectively, in costs and expenses on these foreign exchange contracts which offset a net loss of $25 million and $173 million on the
related economic exposures for the years ended October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010, respectively.       Commodity Price Risk
Management       The Company is subject to the volatility of commodities prices and designates certain commodity forward
contracts as cash flow hedges of forecasted commodity purchases. Mark to market gains and losses on these contracts are deferred in AOCI and are recognized in earnings when the hedged transactions occur, offsetting changes in the value of commodity
purchases. The fair value of commodity hedging contracts was not material at October 1, 2011 nor at October 2, 2010.   
         104

Table of Contents  

    Risk Management   Derivatives Not Designated as Hedges    
  The Company enters into certain other risk management contracts that are not designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting.
These contracts, which include pay fixed interest rate swaps and commodity swap contracts, are intended to offset economic exposures of the Company and are carried at market value with any changes in value recorded in earnings.   
  The notional amount of these contracts at October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010 was $184 million and $218 million, respectively.
The gains or losses recognized in income for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 were not material.       Contingent Features    
  The Company s derivative financial instruments may require the Company to post collateral in the event that a net liability position
with a counterparty exceeds limits defined by contract and that vary with Disney s credit rating. If the Company s credit ratings were to fall below investment grade, such counterparties would also have the right to terminate our
derivative contracts, which could lead to a net payment to or from the Company for the aggregate net value by counterparty of our derivative contracts. The aggregate fair value of derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features
in a net liability position by counterparty were $114 million and $306 million on October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010, respectively.   
     18    
Restructuring and Impairment Charges   
   The Company recorded $55 million of restructuring and impairment charges during fiscal 2011 for severance and
facilities costs related to organizational and cost structure initiatives primarily at our Studio Entertainment ($33 million) and Interactive Media ($22 million) segments.      The Company recorded $270 million of restructuring and impairment charges during fiscal 2010 related to organizational and cost structure initiatives primarily at our Studio Entertainment ($151 million)
and Media Networks ($95 million) segments. Impairment charges of $132 million consisted of writeoffs of capitalized costs primarily related to abandoned film projects, the closure of a studio production facility and the closure of five ESPN Zone
locations. Restructuring charges of $138 million were primarily severance and other costs.      The Company recorded $492 million
of restructuring and impairment charges during fiscal 2009 which included impairment charges of $279 million and restructuring costs of $213 million. The most significant of the impairment charges was $142 million related to FCC radio licenses and
$65 million related to our investment in UTV Group. The restructuring costs were for severance and other related costs.   
         105

Table of Contents  

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL SUMMARY    
   (In millions, except per share data)        

(  1  )    
    Results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 include restructuring and impairment charges which had no net impact on earnings per share. The fourth
quarter of fiscal 2010 included restructuring and impairment charges ($0.02 per diluted share).          

(2)   
      Results for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 include restructuring and
impairment charges ($0.01 per diluted share). The third quarter of fiscal 2010 included a gain on the sale of the  Power Rangers  property ($0.01 per diluted share) and restructuring and impairment charges ($0.01 per diluted share).

(3  )  
  
    Results for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 included restructuring and impairment charges ($0.02 per diluted share), a gain on the sale of an
investment in a pay television service in Europe and an accounting gain related to the acquisition of The Disney Store Japan (together $0.02 per diluted share).      

(  4  )   
      Results for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 include gains on the sales of
Miramax and BASS (together $0.02 per diluted share) and restructuring and impairment charges ($0.01 per diluted share). The first quarter of fiscal 2010 included restructuring and impairment charges ($0.03 per diluted share) and a gain on the sale
of an investment in a television service in Europe ($0.01 per diluted share).      
         106

<EX-10.1>
 2
 d232174dex101.htm
 AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement 

Exhibit 10.1        Amended and Restated Employment Agreement        Between The Walt Disney
Company And Robert A. Iger       AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (the    Agreement   ), dated as
of October 6, 2011, by and between The Walt Disney Company, a Delaware corporation (the    Company   ), and Robert A. Iger (   Executive   ) amending and restating in its entirety Executive s
Employment Agreement with Company, dated as of December 23, 2008 (the    2008 Agreement   ).   
  W I T N E S S E T H:   
  WHEREAS, the Company and its subsidiaries have employed Executive in various senior officer positions, most recently as President and
Chief Executive Officer of the Company;      WHEREAS, the 2008 Agreement is scheduled to expire by its own terms on
January 31, 2013;      WHEREAS, in furtherance of the Company s desire to continue to secure the services of Executive,
the Company and Executive desire to amend and restate the 2008 Agreement effective as of the first day of the Company s fiscal year commencing on October 1, 2011 (the    Effective Date   ) to extend the term of
Executive s services until June 30, 2016, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein; and      WHEREAS,
between the date hereof and the Effective Date, the parties intend and agree that the 2008 Agreement shall remain in full force and effect;      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained, the Company and Executive hereby agree as follows:      1.  Employment . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, the Company hereby employs Executive and Executive hereby accepts employment by the Company for the period commencing
on the Effective Date and ending on June 30, 2016 (or such earlier date as shall be determined pursuant to Paragraph 5). The period during which Executive is employed pursuant to this Agreement shall be referred to as the    Employment
Period   .      2.  Position and Duties . During the period from the Effective Date to the date of the annual
shareholders  meeting occurring in 2012 (the  2012 Meeting ), Executive shall serve as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. During the period from the 2012 Meeting to March 31, 2015, Executive shall serve as
Chief Executive Officer of the Company and as Chairman (   Chairman   ) of the Board. During the period from April 1, 2015 to June 30, 2016, Executive shall continue to serve as Chairman as an employee of the Company.
The period during which Executive serves as Chief   
         1   

Executive Officer under this Agreement (i.e., from and including the Effective Date to March 31, 2015) shall be referred to as the        CEO
Period       , and the period during which Executive serves as Chairman, but not also as the Chief Executive Officer (i.e., from and including April 1, 2015 to June 30, 2016) shall be referred as the
       Chairman Period       . In addition to the specific positions applicable during the specific periods outlined above, Executive shall also serve in such other position or positions with the Company and
its subsidiaries, consistent with his then applicable position(s) as set forth above as the Board shall reasonably assign Executive from time to time. All of Executive s service in accordance with this Paragraph 2 is subject to earlier
termination as provided in Paragraph 5. During the Employment Period, Executive shall be the most senior officer of the Company and report directly and exclusively to the Board, it being understood that during the Chairman Period, if another
executive shall serve as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, such other executive shall report jointly to Executive as Chairman and to the Board. During the Employment Period, unless and until the Board exercises any authority reserved to it
under the Company s By-Laws, Executive shall have the duties, responsibilities and obligations customarily exercised by individuals serving in the applicable position(s) enumerated above in a company of the size and nature of the Company.
During the Employment Period, the Company shall also nominate Executive for re-election as a member of the Board at the expiration of each term of office, and Executive shall serve as a member of the Board for each period for which he is so elected.
During the Employment Period, Executive shall devote substantially all his business time to the services required of him hereunder, and shall perform such services in a manner consonant with the duties of his then applicable position(s). Executive
shall be subject to the terms and conditions of any applicable policy of the Company regarding service (including as a director) on behalf of any other organization, provided that, subject to the provisions of Paragraph 7(a), nothing herein shall
preclude Executive from ( i ) engaging in charitable activities and community affairs, and ( ii ) managing his personal investments and affairs, so long as the activities listed in subclauses (i)-(ii) do not materially
interfere, individually or in the aggregate, with the proper performance of his duties and responsibilities in the position or positions in which Executive is then serving, as specified in this Paragraph 2.   
  3. Compensation.      (a)  Base Salary . During the Employment Period, the Company shall pay Executive a base salary at the annual rate of no less than $2,500,000. The amount of annual base salary currently payable under
this Paragraph 3(a) shall be reduced, however, to the extent Executive elects in accordance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the    Code   ) and the regulations and interpretations
thereunder (   Section 409A   ) to defer such salary under the terms of any deferred compensation or savings plan or arrangement maintained or established by the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Executive s annual base
salary payable hereunder, without reduction for any amounts deferred as described above, is referred to herein as the      Base       
         2   

Salary   . The Company shall pay Executive the portion of his Base Salary not deferred at the election of Executive in accordance with its generally applicable policies for
senior executives, but not less frequently than in equal monthly installments.      (b)  Incentive
Compensation . Executive shall be given the opportunity to earn an annual incentive bonus in accordance with the annual bonus plan generally applicable to the Company s executive officers, as the same may be in effect from time to time (the
   Annual Plan   ). Executive s target annual incentive bonus opportunity under the Annual Plan during ( i ) each of the Company s fiscal years 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015 shall be $12,000,000 and
( ii)  the Company s 2016 fiscal year shall be $6,000,000. The actual amount payable to Executive as an annual bonus under the Annual Plan in respect of any such fiscal year shall be dependent upon the achievement of performance
objectives established in accordance with the Annual Plan by the Board or the committee of the Board responsible for administering such Annual Plan (the    Compensation Committee   ), which shall be substantially the same as the
objectives established under the Annual Plan for other executive officers of the Company. Accordingly, depending on such performance, the actual amount payable as an annual bonus to Executive under the Annual Plan may be less than, greater than or
equal to the target bonus for such fiscal year, as specified above. Any bonus payable pursuant to this Paragraph 3(b) shall be paid at the same time as annual bonuses are payable to other executive officers of the Company in accordance with the
provisions of the Annual Plan, subject to Executive s continued employment with the Company through the date on which such bonuses are paid;  provided ,  however ,  that , as long as Executive remains in service through the end
of the Employment Period, any annual bonus payable under the Annual Plan for the 2016 fiscal year shall be payable at the end of the performance measurement period (despite Executive s expected earlier termination of service), without
pro-ration and subject solely to achievement of the applicable performance objectives for such fiscal year established for purposes of compliance with Section 162(m) of the Code, and without regard to the usual requirement of service through
the date of payment.      (c)  Eligibility for Equity Awards . Subject to the terms of this Agreement,
Executive shall be entitled to participate in the equity based long-term incentive compensation plans, programs or arrangements generally made available to executive officers of the Company, on substantially the same terms and conditions as
generally apply to the Company s executive officers, except as otherwise provided in this Paragraph 3(c). Executive shall receive an annual award with a target award value (which value shall be determined in accordance with the policies and
practices generally applicable to similar types of awards granted to other senior executives of the Company) of ( i ) $15,500,000 for each of the Company s fiscal years 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, and ( ii ) $6,000,000 for
the Company s 2016 fiscal year. The Compensation Committee may increase the award value of any award made in respect of any such fiscal year based on its evaluation of Executive s performance. The actual benefits conveyed to Executive in
respect of any such award may be less than, greater than or equal to the targeted award   
         3   

value, as such benefits will be dependent on a series of performance and other factors, such as the value of the Company s common stock and satisfaction of any applicable vesting
requirements and performance conditions. The form of the awards provided under this Paragraph 3(c) of this Agreement, in respect of each of the Company s fiscal years from 2012 to 2016 inclusive, shall be as follows:   

(i)  
  50% of the applicable award value for each fiscal year will be granted in the form of time-vesting stock options, which shall     

(A)  
  have an exercise price not less than the fair market value of a share of the Company s common stock on the date of grant (as determined in accordance with the
terms of the plan under which such options are granted);         

(C)  
  vest and be exercisable conditioned solely on continued employment, on a schedule no less favorable than in equal annual installments over a period of not greater than
four years;         

(D)  
  have provisions relating to the treatment of such awards upon retirement following age 60 and completion of 10 years of service that are not less favorable to Executive
than those applicable to awards granted to executive officers in 2011;         

(E)  
  provide that, notwithstanding Paragraph 3(c)(i)(C), if Executive remains employed by the Company through the end of the Employment Period, such options shall be or
become vested and exercisable upon the originally specified vesting and exercise schedule (without regard to continuing employment) and shall be exercisable (once they have first become vested and exercisable and unless earlier exercised) until the
expiration of their stated term; and         

(F)  
  have such other terms and conditions consistent with the foregoing as are substantially similar to those applicable in respect to the same form of award used generally
in respect of annual grants made to other executive officers of the Company at or about the same time as the awards granted to Executive; and     
         4   

(ii)  
  50% of the applicable award value for each fiscal year will be in the form of performance-based vesting restricted stock units, which shall     

(A)  
  become vested (if at all) upon the achievement of performance goals and objectives established and approved by the Compensation Committee in respect of such award not
later than the time of grant, measured over a period of not greater than three years. The performance criteria (and related percentile achievement and vesting levels) applicable with respect to each such award shall be the same as the performance
criteria (and levels) applied by the Company with respect to the awards of restricted stock units whose vesting is conditioned on the satisfaction of performance conditions in addition to a test to ensure that the compensation is deductible pursuant
to Section 162(m) of the Code, as described on pages 21 and 22 of the Company s proxy statement dated January 28, 2011;  provided, however, that  the Committee may modify the performance criteria applicable as to any annual grant
to be made hereunder ( x ) in its discretion, so long as such discretionary modifications do not materially diminish the value of such annual grant to Executive or the opportunity for such awards to become vested or ( y ) with
the written consent of Executive. The determination of the extent to which Executive s rights with respect to such restricted stock unit awards shall become vested shall be made without the exercise of adverse discretion that may otherwise
apply to such awards or similar awards;         

(B)  
  provide for a maximum award payout equal to 150% (or such greater percentage as the Compensation Committee shall specify) of the number of units initially granted based
on the target value of such performance-based vesting restricted stock unit award;         

(C)  
  have provisions relating to the treatment of such awards upon retirement following age 60 and completion of 10 years of service that are not less favorable to Executive
as those applicable to awards granted to executive officers in 2011;         

(D)  
    provide that, notwithstanding Paragraph 3(c)(ii)(A), if Executive remains employed by the Company through the end of the Employment Period, such
performance-based vesting      
         5   

restricted stock unit awards shall be eligible to become earned, vested and payable without regard to continuing employment, but subject to achievement of the applicable, originally specified
business performance criteria over the applicable performance period; and         

(E)  
  have such other terms and conditions consistent with the foregoing as are substantially similar to those applicable in respect to the same form of award used generally
in respect of annual grants made to other executive officers of the Company at or about the same time as the awards granted to Executive.        (d)  Prior Awards and Compensation . The extension of the Scheduled Expiration Date (as defined in Paragraph 5(e)) by operation of this Agreement from January 31, 2013 to June 30, 2016
shall be taken into account in determining Executive s rights in respect to all prior equity awards, with the effect being that, for purposes of determining whether any of Executive s equity awards granted prior to the Effective Date shall
be treated as Continuing Unvested Options and Remaining Stock Units (as each such term is defined in Paragraph 5(e)), the Scheduled Expiration Date shall be June 30, 2016. Except as provided in the immediately preceding sentence, this Agreement
shall not alter, amend or otherwise modify in any way any equity award granted to Executive prior to the Effective Date (including, but not limited to, the Extension Stock Option Grant referenced in Paragraph 5(a) of the 2008 Agreement), each of
which shall continue in accordance with its terms (except as modified hereby in respect to the extension of the Scheduled Expiration Date). Amounts of base salary accrued but deferred pursuant to the terms of the employment agreement between
Executive and the Company, dated as of January 24, 2000, shall be paid to Executive by the Company, together with interest thereon (which interest shall accrue at the rate of the applicable federal rate for mid-term treasuries and which rate
shall be reset annually on the basis of the rate in effect for March for each year during which the deferral shall be in effect), six months and one day after the date upon which Executive incurs a separation from service with the Company within the
meaning of Section 409A (as determined in accordance with Paragraph 5(g) hereof) or, if earlier, promptly after Executive s death. Executive shall remain entitled to all compensation and benefits accrued pursuant to the 2008 Agreement, but
unpaid as of the Effective Date, except to the extent specifically modified by the terms of this Agreement.      4.  Benefits,
Perquisites and Expenses .      (a)  Benefits . During the Employment Period, Executive shall be eligible
to participate in ( i ) each welfare benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company and made available generally to its executive officers, including, without limitation, each group life, hospitalization, medical, dental, health,
accident or disability insurance or similar plan or program of the Company, and ( ii ) each pension, profit   
         6   

sharing, retirement, deferred compensation or savings plan sponsored or maintained by the Company for its executive officers, in each case, whether now existing or established hereafter, in
accordance with the generally applicable provisions thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, from and after the Effective Date, the Executive shall not participate in the Company s Family Income Assurance Plan.   
  (b)  Perquisites . During the Employment Period, Executive shall be entitled to receive such perquisites as are
generally provided to other executive officers of the Company in accordance with the then current policies and practices of the Company.      (c)  Business Expenses . The Company shall pay or reimburse Executive for all reasonable expenses incurred or paid by Executive during the Employment Period in the performance of Executive s
duties hereunder, upon presentation of expense statements or vouchers and such other information as the Company may require and in accordance with the generally applicable policies and procedures of the Company.   
  (d)  Indemnification . Executive and the Company are parties to an indemnification agreement effective as of
October 1, 2003 (the    Indemnification Agreement   ), which shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with its terms.      5.  Termination of Employment .      (a)  Early Termination of
the Employment Period . Notwithstanding Paragraphs 1 or 2, the Employment Period shall end upon the earliest to occur of ( i ) Executive s death, ( ii ) a Termination due to Disability, ( iii ) a Termination for
Cause, ( iv ) the Termination Date specified in connection with any exercise by the Company of its Termination Right or ( v ) a Termination for Good Reason. If the Employment Period terminates as of a date specified under this
Paragraph 5 or upon the lapse of the Employment Period specified in Paragraph 1, Executive agrees that, upon written request from the Company, he shall resign from the Board and each other position he holds with the Company and any of its
subsidiaries or affiliates, effective immediately following receipt of such request from the Company (or at such later date as the Company may specify).      (b)  Benefits Payable Upon Termination .      (i) (i) In the
event of Executive s death during the Employment Period or a Termination due to Disability, Executive or his beneficiaries or legal representatives shall be provided the Unconditional Entitlements, including, but not limited to, any such
Unconditional Entitlements that are or become payable under any Company plan, policy, practice or program or any contract or agreement with the Company by reason of Executive s death or Termination due to Disability. Subject to Paragraph 5(d),
in the event of Executive s death or disability, any other stock options   
         7   

then held by Executive or his permitted transferees (including, but not limited to, the Extension Stock Option Grant referenced in Paragraph 5(a) of the 2008 Agreement) shall be exercisable in
accordance with the terms of the applicable plan and the applicable option agreements.      (ii) In the event of
Executive s Termination for Cause, Executive shall be provided the Unconditional Entitlements.      (iii) In
the event of a Termination for Good Reason or the exercise by the Company of its Termination Right, Executive shall be provided the Unconditional Entitlements and the Company shall provide the Conditional Benefits to Executive, subject to
( A ) Executive s execution of the Release, and ( B ) Executive having not revoked such Release within the seven-day revocation period permitted following delivery of such Release. For Executive to become entitled to the
Conditional Benefits, Executive must deliver the executed Release to the Company by no later than twenty-two (22) days following the Termination Date.      (c)  Unconditional Entitlements . For purposes of this Agreement, the    Unconditional Entitlements    to which Executive may become entitled under Paragraph 5(b) are as follows:
     (i)  Earned Amounts . The Earned Compensation shall be paid within 30 days following the termination of
Executive s employment hereunder, or if any part thereof constitutes a bonus which is subject to or conditioned upon any performance conditions, within thirty (30) days following the determination that such conditions have been met,
 provided that  in no event shall the bonus be paid later than 90 days following his termination of employment.      (ii)  Benefits . All benefits payable to Executive under any employee benefit plans (including, without limitation any pension plans or 401(k) plans) of the Company or any of its affiliates
applicable to Executive at the time of termination of Executive s employment with the Company and all amounts and benefits (other than the Conditional Benefits) which are vested or which Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under the
terms of or in accordance with any plan, policy, practice or program of, or any contract or agreement with, the Company, at or subsequent to the date of his termination without regard to the performance by Executive of further services or the
resolution of a contingency, shall be paid or provided in accordance with and subject to the terms and provisions of such plans, it being understood that all such benefits shall be determined on the basis of the actual date of termination of
Executive s employment with the Company. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, Executive shall not be entitled to any benefits under any severance plan or policy of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.   
         8   

(iii)  Indemnities . Any right which Executive may have to claim a
defense and/or indemnity for liabilities to or claims asserted by third parties in connection with Executive s activities as an officer, director or employee of the Company or any of its affiliates pursuant to the terms of the Indemnification
Agreement referenced in Paragraph 4(d) shall be unaffected by Executive s termination of employment and shall remain in effect in accordance with its terms.   
  (iv)  Medical Coverage . Executive shall be entitled to such continuation of health care coverage as is required
under, and in accordance with, applicable law or otherwise provided in accordance with the Company s policies. Executive shall be notified in writing of his rights to continue such coverage after the termination of his employment pursuant to
this Paragraph 5(c)(iv), provided that Executive timely complies with the conditions to continue such coverage. Executive understands and acknowledges that Executive is responsible to make for all payments required for any such continued health care
coverage that Executive may choose to receive.      (v)  Business Expenses . Executive shall be entitled to
reimbursement, in accordance with the Company s policies regarding expense reimbursement as in effect from time to time, for all business expenses incurred by him prior to the termination of his employment.   
  (vi)  Stock Options/RSUs . Except to the extent additional rights are provided upon Executive s qualifying to
receive the Conditional Benefits, Executive s rights with respect to any stock options and/or restricted stock units granted to him by the Company shall be governed by the terms and provisions of the plans (including plan rules) and award
agreements pursuant to which such stock options and restricted stock units were awarded, and the terms of this Agreement, as in effect at the date Executive s employment terminates.   
  (d)  Conditional Benefits . For purposes of this Agreement, the    Conditional Benefits    to
which Executive may become entitled under Paragraph 5(b)(iii), provided he complies with the terms and conditions thereof, are as follows:      (i)  Remaining Salary . The Company shall pay Executive a lump sum amount equal to the Severance Amount. The Severance Amount shall be paid on the date that is six months and one day after the
Termination Date (or upon Executive s death, if earlier).      (ii)  Stock Options . All of
Executive s Continuing Unvested Options shall become exercisable in accordance with the applicable Original Stock Option Award Documents, but on the same basis as such options would have become vested and exercisable if Executive had remained
employed through the Scheduled Expiration Date;  provided, however, that  if Executive s Termination Date occurs prior to   
         9   

the commencement of the Chairman Period, Executive s right to vest and post-termination exercise rights will be determined without regard to the provisions of Paragraph 3(c)(i)(E). Once
exercisable, all Continuing Unvested Options and all Remaining Stock Options shall remain exercisable (to the extent not previously exercised) until the Stock Option Termination Date applicable to such options. Except as otherwise expressly provided
herein, all of the Remaining Stock Options shall continue to be subject to the Original Stock Option Award Documents. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of Executive s death prior to the Stock Option Termination Date, all Continuing
Unvested Options shall vest on the date of Executive s death and all Remaining Stock Options shall be exercisable for the period following Executive s death determined under such Original Stock Option Award Documents on the same basis as
though Executive was employed on the date of his death and regardless of when the Stock Option Termination Date would otherwise have occurred. However, any provisions in the Original Stock Option Award Documents relating to disability or change in
control of the Company shall not be operative after the Termination Date with respect to any Remaining Stock Options.      (iii)  RSUs . The Remaining Stock Units shall continue to vest in accordance with the terms of the Original RSU Award Documents, but on the same basis as though Executive had remained employed
through the Scheduled Expiration Date. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all such Remaining Stock Units shall be subject to, and administered in accordance with, the Original RSU Award Documents. Notwithstanding any term or provision of
the Original RSU Award Documents:      (A) any provisions in such Original RSU Award Documents relating to
disability shall not be applicable to any such Remaining Stock Units after the Termination Date; and      (B) in
the event of Executive s death after the Termination Date but prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date, the terms and provisions of the Original RSU Award Documents shall be interpreted and applied in the same manner with respect to such
Remaining Stock Units as if Executive were an active employee on the date of his death.      (iv)  Pro-Rated
Current Year Bonus . Subject to the condition specified in the last sentence hereof, a pro rata annual bonus for the year in which the Termination Date occurs, determined on the basis of an assumed full-year target bonus determined pursuant to
Paragraph 3(b) and the number of days in the applicable fiscal year occurring on or before the Termination Date. Such pro-rata current year bonus shall be paid no later than the later of ( i ) two and a half months after the end of
Executive s tax year in which the Termination Date occurs and ( ii ) two and a half months after the end of the Company s tax year in which the Termination Date occurs. Payment of a pro-rata bonus under this Paragraph 5(d)(iv)
shall be subject solely to the condition that the   
         10   

performance objectives related to the Annual Plan in effect for the fiscal year in which such termination occurs that were established to qualify such bonus payments to Executive and other
executive officers of the Company as performance-based compensation exempt from the limitations established under Section 162(m) are satisfied.      (v)  Additional Distribution Rules in Respect of Conditional Benefits . The following additional rules shall apply with respect to distribution of the payments and benefits, if any, to be provided to
Executive under Paragraph 5(d)(i), (iii) and (iv):      (A) It is intended that each installment of the
payments and benefits provided under Paragraph 5(d)(i), (iii) and (iv) shall be treated as a separate  payment  for purposes of Section 409A. Neither the Company nor Executive shall have the right to accelerate or defer the
delivery of any such payments or benefits except to the extent specifically permitted or required by Section 409A;      (B) Each installment of the payments and benefits due under Paragraph 5(d)(i) and (iii) that would, absent this subsection, be paid within the six-month period following Executive s
 separation from service  from the Company (within the meaning of Section 409A and as provided in Paragraph 5(g) hereof ) shall not be paid until the date that is six months and one day after such separation from service (or, if
earlier, Executive s death), with any such installments that are required to be delayed being accumulated during the six-month period and paid in a lump sum on the date that is six months and one day following Executive s separation from
service. (Any installments that qualify for the exception under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii) must be paid no later than the last day of Executive s second taxable year following the taxable year of Executive s in
which the separation from service occurs.) Any subsequent installments that would be payable more than six months following Executive s separation from service shall be paid in accordance with the dates and terms set forth herein.   
  (e)  Definitions . For purposes of this Paragraph 5, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
below:         Continuing Unvested Options    means any of Executive s stock options that have not become
vested and exercisable prior to the Termination Date, but that would have become vested under the Original Stock Option Award Documents and the terms of this Agreement had Executive continued to be employed by the
  
         11   

Company through the Scheduled Expiration Date (as determined taking into account the exercise and vesting provisions set forth in Paragraphs 3(c)(i)(D) and (E) and any other retirement
provisions in such award documents, except that the vesting and exercise provisions set forth in Paragraph 3(c)(i)(E) shall only be taken into account if the Termination Date occurs on or after the commencement of the Chairman Period and not if the
Termination Date precedes the Chairman Period).         Earned Compensation    means the sum of (a) any
Base Salary earned, but unpaid, for services rendered to the Company on or prior to the date on which the Employment Period ends pursuant to Paragraph 5(a) (but excluding any salary and interest accrued thereon payment of which has been deferred)
and ( b ) if Executive s employment terminates due to Executive s death or in a Termination due to Disability or a Termination for Good Reason or due to the Company s exercise of its Termination Right, in any case, after the
end of a fiscal year, but before the annual incentive compensation payable for services rendered in that fiscal year has been paid, the annual incentive compensation that would have been payable to Executive for such completed fiscal year in
accordance with Paragraph 3(b).         Original Stock Option Award Documents    means, with respect to any
Remaining Stock Option, the terms and provisions of the award agreement and plan pursuant to which such Remaining Stock Option was granted, each as in effect on the Termination Date.   
     Original RSU Award Documents    means, with respect to any tranche of Remaining Stock Units, the terms and
provisions of the award agreement related to and the plan governing, such tranche of Remaining Stock Units, each as in effect on the Termination Date.         Release    means the General Release in the form set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto.         Remaining Stock Options    means any of Executive s stock options which are (i) vested at the Termination Date or (ii) Continuing Unvested Options.   
     Remaining Stock Units    means any of Executive s restricted stock units outstanding at the Termination Date
(whether or not subject to performance conditions) that, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable performance conditions, would have become vested under the Original RSU Award Documents and the terms of this Agreement had Executive continued to
be employed by the Company through the Scheduled Expiration Date (as determined taking into account the vesting provisions set forth in Paragraphs 3(c)(ii)(C) and (D) and any other retirement provisions in such award documents, except that the
  
         12   

vesting provisions set forth in Paragraph 3(c)(ii)(D) shall only be taken into account if the Termination Date occurs on or after the commencement of the Chairman Period and not if the
Termination Date precedes the Chairman Period).         Scheduled Expiration Date    means June 30, 2016.
        Severance Amount    means an amount equal to the aggregate Base Salary which would have been earned by
Executive under this Agreement for the period commencing on the Termination Date and ending on the Scheduled Expiration Date.   
     Stock Option Termination Date    means with respect to any Remaining Stock Option, the last date on which such
Remaining Stock Option would have been exercisable assuming that Executive retired on the Scheduled Expiration Date (as determined taking into account the exercise and vesting provisions set forth in Paragraphs 3(c)(i)(D) and (E) and any other
retirement provisions in such award documents, except that the vesting and exercise provisions set forth in Paragraph 3(c)(i)(E) shall only be taken into account if the Termination Date occurs on or after the commencement of the Chairman Period and
not if the Termination Date precedes the Chairman Period).         Termination for Cause    means a termination
of Executive s employment by the Company due to (i) Executive s conviction of a felony or the entering by Executive of a plea of nolo contendere to a felony charge; (ii) Executive s gross neglect, willful malfeasance or
willful gross misconduct in connection with his employment hereunder which has had a material adverse effect on the business of the Company and its subsidiaries, unless Executive reasonably believed in good faith that such act or non-act was in or
not opposed to the best interests of the Company; (iii) a substantial and continual refusal by Executive in breach of this Agreement to perform Executive s duties, responsibilities or obligations assigned to Executive in accordance with
the terms hereof (provided that such duties, responsibilities or obligations are not inconsistent with his positions as Chief Executive Officer and are otherwise lawful) that continues after receipt by Executive of written notice from the Company
identifying the duties, responsibilities or obligations not being performed; (iv) a violation by Executive of any policy of the Company that is generally applicable to all employees or all officers of the Companies including, but not limited
to, policies concerning insider trading or sexual harassment, or the Company s code of conduct, that Executive knows or reasonably should know could reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse effect on the Company;
(v) Executive s failure to cooperate, if requested by the Board, with any investigation or inquiry into his or the Company s business practices, whether internal or external, including, but not limited to, Executive s refusal to
be deposed or to provide testimony at any trial or inquiry; or (vi) any material breach by Executive of the provisions of   
         13   

Paragraph 7; provided, however, that in the case of subclauses (iv), (v) and (vi), Cause shall not exist if, such violation, failure to cooperate or breach, if capable of being cured, shall
have been cured by Executive within 30 days after receipt of notice thereof from the Company. Any Termination for Cause shall be effected by a resolution of the majority of the members of the Board, excluding Executive. Prior to the effectiveness of
any such termination, Executive shall be afforded an opportunity to meet with the Board, upon reasonable notice under the circumstances, and explain and defend any action or omission alleged to constitute grounds for a Termination for Cause;
provided that the Board may suspend Executive from his duties hereunder prior to such opportunity and such suspension shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement by the Company or otherwise form the basis for a Termination for Good Reason. If
Executive has, and utilizes, such opportunity to be heard, the Board shall promptly reaffirm that grounds for a Termination for Cause exist or reinstate Executive to his position hereunder.   
     Termination Date    means, subject to the provisions of Paragraph 5(g), the earlier to occur of (i) the date
the Company specifies in writing to Executive in connection with the exercise of its Termination Right or (ii) the date Executive specifies in writing to the Company in connection with any notice to effect a Termination for Good Reason.
        Termination due to Disability    means a termination of Executive s employment by the Company
because Executive has been incapable, after reasonable accommodation, of substantially fulfilling the positions, duties, responsibilities and obligations set forth in this Agreement because of physical, mental or emotional incapacity resulting from
injury, sickness or disease for a period of (i) six consecutive months or (ii) an aggregate of nine months (whether or not consecutive) in any twelve month period. Any question as to the existence, extent or potentiality of
Executive s disability shall be determined by a qualified physician selected by the Company with the consent of Executive, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Executive or his legal representatives or any adult member of his
immediate family shall have the right to present to such physician such information and arguments as to Executive s disability as he, she or they deem appropriate, including the opinion of Executive s personal physician.   
     Termination for Good Reason    means a termination of Executive s employment by Executive within 30 days of
the Company s failure to cure, in accordance with the procedures set forth below, any of the following events: (i) a reduction in any of Executive s compensation rights hereunder (that is, Base Salary, target bonus opportunity
specified in Paragraph 3(b) or annual target incentive awards specified in Paragraph 3(c)), it being understood that the failure of Executive to receive an actual bonus for any fiscal year equal to or greater than
  
         14   

the target bonus opportunity, or to receive in respect of any equity award granted an amount that is equal to or greater than the annual target incentive value ascribed to such award is not a
reduction in such compensation rights; (ii) the failure to elect or reelect Executive as a member of the Board of Directors, (iii) the removal of Executive by the Company from the position of Chief Executive Officer prior to the last day
of the CEO Period; (v) the failure to cause Executive to be appointed as Chairman on or before the date of the 2012 Meeting, (vi) the removal of Executive by the Company from the position of Chairman on or after the date of the 2012
Meeting, (vii) a material reduction in Executive s duties and responsibilities as in effect immediately prior to such reduction, other than in connection with the change in, or cessation of his tenure in, any of his titles and positions as
specified in Paragraph 2; (viii) the assignment to Executive of duties that are materially inconsistent with his then current position(s) or duties or that materially impair Executive s ability to function in the position(s) stated in
Paragraph 2 in which he is then serving; (ix) the relocation of Executive s principal office to a location that is both more than 50 miles from Manhattan and more than 50 miles outside of the greater Los Angeles area; or (x) a
material breach of any material provision of this Agreement by the Company. In addition, following the occurrence of a Change in Control, any occurrence that would constitute a Triggering Event for purposes of Section 11 of the Amended and
Restated 2005 Stock and Incentive Plan (the    2005 Stock Plan   ) or Section 11 of the 2011 Stock and Incentive Plan (the    2011 Stock Plan   ) shall also constitute an event upon which Executive may
effect a Termination for Good Reason in accordance with this Agreement. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the terms Change of Control and Triggering Event shall have the meaning set forth in the 2005 Stock Plan and 2011 Stock Plan as in effect
on the Effective Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (A) Executive shall not be able to effect a termination for Good Reason if the Company fails to appoint Executive as Chairman or removes Executive from the position of Chairman during the
CEO Period if Executive may not serve both as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (1) under any law or regulation applicable to the Company or (2) pursuant to the rules of the principal securities exchange or securities quotation system
upon which the Company s common stock is listed to trade at the relevant time;  provided   that  the foregoing exception shall not apply during the Chairman Period, and (B) a termination shall not be treated as a Termination for
Good Reason (1) if Executive shall have consented in writing to the occurrence of the event giving rise to the claim of Termination for Good Reason or (2) unless Executive shall have delivered a written notice to the Board within three
months of his having actual knowledge of the occurrence of one of such events stating that he intends to terminate his employment for Good Reason and specifying the factual basis for such termination, and such event, if capable of being cured, shall
not have been cured within 30 days of the receipt of such notice.   
         15   

Termination Right    means the right of the Company, in its sole,
absolute and unfettered discretion, to terminate Executive s employment under this Agreement for any reason or no reason whatsoever. For the avoidance of doubt, any Termination for Cause effected by the Company shall not constitute the exercise
of its Termination Right.      (f)  Conflict With Plans . As permitted under each of the Amended and Restated
1995 Stock Incentive Plan (the    1995 Stock Plan   ), the 2005 Stock Plan and the 2011 Stock Plan, the Company and Executive agree that the definitions of Termination for Cause or Termination for Good Reason set forth in this
Paragraph 5 shall apply in place of any similar definition or comparable concept applicable under either of the plans (or any similar definition in any successor plan), except that, in connection with a  Triggering Event  as defined in the
1995 Stock Plan as amended through October 2, 2008, the terms of the 1995 Stock Plan shall apply to determine Executive s rights and entitlements in respect of the awards made under such plan (and only in respect of such awards).
     (g)  Section 409A . To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Agreement comply with the
requirements of Section 409A, and this Agreement shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent. Notwithstanding anything else contained herein to the contrary, any payment required to be made to Executive hereunder upon his
termination of employment (including any payment to this Paragraph 5) shall be made promptly after the six month anniversary of Executive s date of termination to the extent necessary to avoid imposition on Executive of any tax penalty imposed
under Section 409A of the Code. Solely for purposes of determining the time and form of payments due Executive under this Agreement (including any payments due under Paragraph 5) or otherwise in connection with his termination of employment
with the Company, Executive shall not be deemed to have incurred a termination of employment unless and until he shall incur a  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code; provided that, for purposes of
applying such Section 409A, the parties agree, as permitted in accordance with the final regulations thereunder, a  separation from service  shall occur when Executive and the Company reasonably anticipate that Executive s level
of bona fide services for the Company (whether as an employee or an independent contractor) will permanently decrease to no more than 40 percent of the average level of bona fide services performed by Executive for the Company over the immediately
preceding 36 months. To the extent that the Company and Executive determine that any provision of this Agreement could reasonably be expected to result in Executive s being subject to the payment of interest or additional tax under
Section 409A, the Company and Executive agree, to the extent reasonably possible as determined in good faith, to amend this Agreement, retroactively, if necessary, in order to avoid the imposition of any such interest or additional tax under
Section 409A. All reimbursements and in-kind benefits provided under the Agreement shall be made or provided in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A to the   
         16   

extent that such reimbursements or in-kind benefits are subject to Section 409A, including, where applicable, the requirements that (i) any reimbursement is for expenses incurred during
Executive s lifetime (or during a shorter period of time specified in this Agreement), (ii) the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement during a calendar year may not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other
calendar year, (iii) the reimbursement of an eligible expense will be made on or before the last day of the calendar year following the year in which the expense is incurred and (iv) the right to reimbursement is not subject to set off or
liquidation or exchange for any other benefit.      (h)  Amendment of Existing Agreements . The parties
acknowledge and agree that to the extent that this Paragraph 5 affects any of the terms and conditions of Executive s Remaining Stock Options or Remaining Stock Units which were granted prior to the Effective Date by extending the Scheduled
Expiration Date, this Agreement shall constitute an amendment of the Original Stock Option Award Documents and Original RSU Award Documents as they pertain to Executive.      6.  Exclusive Remedy . Executive acknowledges and agrees that the payments and rights provided under Paragraph 5 are fair and reasonable, and are Executive s sole and exclusive remedy, in lieu
of all other remedies at law or in equity, for termination of his employment by the Company upon exercise of its Termination Right pursuant to this Agreement or upon a Termination for Good Reason or upon termination of his employment upon the
expiration of this Agreement. Executive shall be under no obligation to seek other employment or other engagement of his services. The failure of Executive to execute and timely deliver the Release for any reason ( i ) shall limit his
rights in connection with the exercise by the Company of its Termination Right or upon a Termination for Good Reason solely to the right to receive the Unconditional Entitlements, ( ii ) shall not effect a modification of any of his
commitments set forth in this Agreement (none of which are contingent upon execution of the Release by him) and ( iii ) shall not preserve or revive any rights waived by Executive hereunder. Subject to Executive s execution and
delivery of the Release without revocation thereof, (i) the Company agrees to enter into the Release and (ii) there shall be no offset available to the Company against any amounts due, paid or payable to him in respect of the Conditional
Benefits under Paragraph 5 with respect to any compensation, remuneration or payment attributable to any services that Executive may provide to any third party subsequent to termination of employment hereunder, whether as an employee or otherwise.
     7.  Non-competition and Confidentiality .   
  (a)  Non-competition . During the Employment Period, Executive shall not become associated with any entity, whether
as a principal, partner, employee, consultant or shareholder (other than as a holder of not in excess of 1% of the outstanding voting shares of any publicly traded company), that is actively engaged in any geographic area in any business which is in
competition with a business conducted by the Company at the time of the alleged competition.   
         17   

(b)  Confidentiality . Without the prior written consent of the
Company, except ( i ) as reasonably necessary in the course of carrying out his duties hereunder or ( ii ) to the extent required by an order of a court having competent jurisdiction or under subpoena from an appropriate
government agency, Executive shall not disclose any trade secrets, customer lists, drawings, designs, information regarding product development, existing theatrical projects, marketing plans, sales plans, manufacturing plans, management organization
information (including data and other information relating to members of the Board and management), operating policies or manuals, business plans, financial records or other financial, commercial, business or technical information relating to the
Company or any of its subsidiaries or information designated as confidential or proprietary that the Company or any of its subsidiaries may receive belonging to suppliers, customers or others who do business with the Company or any of its
subsidiaries (collectively,    Confidential Information   ) unless such Confidential Information has been previously disclosed to the public by the Company or has otherwise become available to the public (other than by reason of
Executive s breach of this Paragraph 7(b)).      (c)  Company Property . Promptly following
Executive s termination of employment, Executive shall return to the Company all property of the Company, and all copies thereof in Executive s possession or under his control, except that Executive may retain his personal notes, diaries,
Rolodexes, calendars and correspondence of a personal nature.      (d)  Non-Solicitation of Employees . During
the Employment Period and, subject to the provisions of applicable law, during the one-year period following any termination of Executive s employment, Executive shall not, except in the course of carrying out his duties hereunder, directly or
indirectly induce any employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries to terminate employment with such entity, and shall not directly or indirectly, either individually or as owner, agent, employee, consultant or otherwise, knowingly employ or
offer employment to any person who is or was employed by the Company or a subsidiary thereof unless such person shall have ceased to be employed by such entity for a period of at least six (6) months.   
  (e)  Injunctive Relief with Respect to Covenants . Executive acknowledges and agrees that the covenants and
obligations of Executive with respect to noncompetition, nonsolicitation, confidentiality and the Company property relate to special, unique and extraordinary matters and that a violation of any of the terms of such covenants and obligations may
cause the Company irreparable injury for which adequate remedies are not available at law. Therefore, Executive agrees that the Company shall be entitled to obtain an injunction, restraining order or such other equitable relief restraining Executive
from committing any violation of the covenants and obligations contained in this Paragraph 7. These injunctive remedies are cumulative and are in addition to any other rights and remedies the Company may have at law or in equity.   
         18   

8.  Miscellaneous .   
  (a)  Survival . Paragraph 5 (relating to early termination of the Employment Period), 7 (relating to nondisclosure
and nonsolicitation of employees) and 8(o) (relating to governing law) shall survive the termination hereof, whether such termination shall be by expiration of the Employment Period in accordance with Paragraph 1 or an early termination of the
Employment Period pursuant to Paragraph 5 hereof.      (b)  Binding Effect . This Agreement shall be binding
on, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and any person or entity that succeeds to the interest of the Company (regardless of whether such succession does or does not occur by operation of law) by reason of a merger, consolidation or
reorganization involving the Company or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. The Company further agrees that, in the event of a sale of assets as described in the preceding sentence, it shall use its reasonable best
efforts to cause such assignee or transferee to expressly assume the liabilities, obligations and duties of the Company hereunder. This Agreement shall also inure to the benefit of Executive s heirs, executors, administrators and legal
representatives and beneficiaries as provided in Paragraph 8(d).      (c)  Assignment . Except as provided
under Paragraph 8(b), neither this Agreement nor any of the rights or obligations hereunder shall be assigned or delegated by any party hereto without the prior written consent of the other party.   
  (d)  Beneficiaries/References . Executive shall be entitled, to the extent permitted under any applicable law and the
terms of any applicable plan, to select and change a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive any compensation or benefit payable hereunder following Executive s death by giving the Company written notice thereof. In the event of
Executive s death or a judicial determination of his incompetence, reference in this Agreement to Executive shall be deemed, where appropriate, to refer to his beneficiary, estate or other legal representative.   
  (e)  Entire Agreement . Effective as of the Effective Date, this Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement
between the parties hereto with respect to the matters referred to herein; provided that this Agreement shall not alter, amend, or supersede ( i ) except as specifically provided in Paragraph 5, any agreement that evidences the terms of
any equity grant made prior to the date hereof (including, but not limited to, the Extension Stock Option Grant referenced in Paragraph 5(a) of the 2008 Agreement) or ( ii ) the Indemnification Agreement referenced in Paragraph 4(d). As of
the Effective Date, this Agreement shall expressly supersede and replace the 2008 Agreement. There are no promises, representations, inducements or statements between the parties other than those that are expressly contained herein.   
         19   

(f)  Representations . Executive represents that his employment
hereunder and compliance by him with the terms and conditions of this Agreement will not conflict with or result in the breach of any agreement to which he is a party or by which he may be bound. The Company represents that ( i ) it is a
corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. ( ii ) it has the full corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and ( iii ) the execution,
delivery and performance of this Agreement has been duly and validly authorized.      (g)  Authority of the
Board . For the avoidance of doubt, nothing is this Agreement shall preclude the Board from its ability to exercise any power or authority to take such actions as it is required or permitted to take as a matter of law or pursuant to the terms of
the Company s governing documents. Nothing in this Paragraph 8(g) shall be construed to modify, amend, limit or otherwise impair the rights and entitlements of Executive set forth in the other Paragraphs of this Agreement (including, without
limitation, the rights and entitlements specified in Paragraph 5).      (h)  Severability; Reformation . In
the event that one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall become invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected thereby. In
the event any of Paragraph 7(a), (b) or (d) is not enforceable in accordance with its terms, Executive and the Company agree that such subparagraph of such Paragraph 7 shall be reformed to make such Paragraph enforceable in a manner which
provides the Company the maximum rights permitted at law.      (i)  Waiver . Waiver by any party hereto of any
breach or default by the other party of any of the terms of this Agreement shall not operate as a waiver of any other breach or default, whether similar to or different from the breach or default waived. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement
shall be implied from any course of dealing between the parties hereto or from any failure by either party hereto to assert its or his rights hereunder on any occasion or series of occasions.   
  (j)  Notices . Any notice required or desired to be delivered under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be
delivered personally, by courier service, by registered mail, return receipt requested, or by telecopy and shall be effective upon actual receipt when delivered or sent by telecopy and upon mailing when sent by registered mail, and shall be
addressed as follows (or to such other address as the party entitled to notice shall hereafter designate in accordance with the terms hereof):   
         20   

If to the Company:   
  The Walt Disney Company      500 South Buena Vista Avenue      Burbank, California 91521
     Attention: General Counsel   
  Telecopy No.: (818) 569-5146      with a copy to:      Debevoise   Plimpton, LLP   
  919 Third Avenue      New York, New York 10022      Attention: Lawrence K. Cagney, Esq.
     Telecopy No.: (212) 909-6836      If to Executive:      To the address listed as Executive s principal residence in
the Company s human resources records and to his principal place of employment with the Company      with a copy to:
     Milbank, Tweed, Hadley   McCloy   
  One Chase Manhattan Plaza      New York, New York      Attention: Mel Immergut, Esq.   
  Telecopy No.: (212) 530-5730   
  (k)  Amendments . No amendment to this Agreement shall be binding between the parties unless it is in writing and
signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought.      (l)  Headings . Headings to paragraphs in this
Agreement are for the convenience of the parties only and are not intended to be part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation hereof.      (m)  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.   
  (n)  Withholding . Any payments provided for herein shall be reduced by any amounts required to be withheld by the
Company from time to time under applicable federal, state or local income or employment tax laws or similar statutes or other provisions of law then in effect.   
         21   

(o)  Governing Law . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of
the State of California, without reference to principles of conflicts or choice of law under which the law of any other jurisdiction would apply.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officer and Executive has hereunto set his hand as of the day and year first above written.   

THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY   

Dated: October 6, 2011   

By:  
     
  /s/ Alan N. Braverman   

Senior Executive Vice President,   

General Counsel and Secretary   

22   

EXHIBIT A     
   GENERAL RELEASE       WHEREAS, Robert A. Iger (hereinafter referred to as  Executive ) and The Walt Disney Company (hereinafter referred to as the  Company ) are parties to an Employment Agreement, as
amended and restated as of October 6, 2011 (the  Employment Agreement ), which provided for Executive s employment with the Company on the terms and conditions specified therein; and   
  WHEREAS, pursuant to paragraph 6 of the Employment Agreement, Executive and the Company have agreed to execute mutual releases of the
type and nature set forth in this Agreement;      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual promises herein
contained and for other good and valuable consideration received in accordance with the terms of the Employment Agreement, it is agreed as follows:      1. (a) Upon the later of (i) the execution hereof by the Company and Executive, (ii) the passage of seven days following execution hereof by Executive without Executive s having
exercised the revocation rights referred to in Paragraph 10 hereof and (iii) the time specified in the Employment Agreement for payment of a particular item of compensation, the Company shall (x) provide Executive the amounts and benefits
described in Paragraph 5 of the Employment Agreement and (y) make full payment for vacation and floating holidays accrued but unused as of the date hereof, less amounts required to be withheld by law or authorized by Executive to be withheld
(it being understood that from and after the date hereof no further rights to vacation or floating holidays or compensation therefor shall accrue or be payable to Executive). Such payment shall be made by check payable to Executive.   
  (b) The covenants and commitments of the Company referred to herein (including, specifically, but without limitation, any
and all benefits conferred upon Executive pursuant to Paragraph 5 of the Employment Agreement) shall be in lieu of and in full and final discharge of any and all obligations to Executive for compensation, severance payments, or any other
expectations of payment, remuneration, continued coverage of any nature or benefit on the part of Executive arising out of or in connection with Executive s employment with the Company, or under any agreement, arrangement, commitment, plan,
program, practice or policy of the Company, or otherwise, other than as expressly provided in the Employment Agreement.      (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other term or provision hereof, Executive shall be entitled to such rights as are vested in Executive as of the Termination Date, or as are expressly provided in
the Employment Agreement, under and subject to the terms of (i) the Employment Agreement, (ii) any applicable retirement   
         1   

plan(s) to which Executive may be subject, (iii) any applicable stock option plan or other incentive compensation plan of the Company to which Executive may be subject, (iv) any right
which Executive now has or may hereafter have to claim a defense and/or indemnity for liabilities to third parties in connection with his activities as an employee of the Company or any of its affiliates pursuant to the terms of any applicable
statute, under any insurance policy, pursuant to the certificate of incorporation or bylaws or established policies of the Company or any affiliate thereof or pursuant to written agreement (including, without limitation, the Indemnification
Agreement dated as of October 1, 2003) expressly providing for such indemnity between Executive and the Company or any affiliate thereof, and (v) any other applicable employee welfare benefit plans to which Executive may be subject.
Further, Executive shall be entitled to such continuation of health care coverage as is required under, and subject to, applicable law, of which Executive shall be notified in writing after the Termination Date, provided Executive timely exercises
Executive s rights in accordance therewith. Executive understands and acknowledges that all payments for any such continued health care coverage he may elect will be paid by him, except to the extent the Employment Agreement provides that such
payments shall be made by the Company.      2. Executive confirms that, on or prior to seven (7) days from the date hereof,
Executive shall turn over to the Company all files, memoranda, records, credit cards and other documents and physical or personal property that Executive received from the Company or that Executive generated in connection with his employment by the
Company or that are the property of the Company.      3. It is the desire and intent of the parties hereto that the provisions of
this Agreement be enforced to the fullest extent permissible under law. Should there be any conflict between any provision hereof and any present or future law, such law will prevail, but the provisions affected thereby will be curtailed and limited
only to the extent necessary to bring them within the requirements of law, and the remaining provisions of this Agreement will remain in full force and effect and be fully valid and enforceable.   
  4. Executive represents and agrees (a) that Executive has to the extent he desires discussed all aspects of this Agreement with his
attorney, (b) that Executive has carefully read and fully understands all of the provisions of this Agreement, and (c) that Executive is voluntarily entering into this Agreement.   
  5. Excluding enforcement of the covenants, promises and/or rights reserved herein, Executive hereby irrevocably and unconditionally
releases, acquits and forever discharges the Company and each of the Company s owners, stockholders, predecessors, successors, assigns, agents, directors, officers, employees, representatives, attorneys, divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates (and
agents, directors, officers, employees, representatives and attorneys of such companies, divisions, subsidiaries and affiliates) and all persons acting by, through, under or in concert with any of them (collectively
  
         2   

Releasees ), or any of them, from any and all charges, complaints, claims, liabilities, obligations, promises, agreements, controversies, damages, actions, causes of action, suits,
rights, demands, costs, losses, debts and expenses (including attorneys  fees and costs actually incurred) of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, including, but not limited to, rights arising out of alleged
violations of any contracts, express or implied, any covenant of good faith and fair dealing, express or implied, or any tort or any legal restrictions on the Company s right to terminate employees, or any Federal, state or other governmental
statute, regulation or ordinance, including, without limitation, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Federal Age Discrimination In Employment Act of 1967, as amended, and the California Fair Employment and Housing Act that
Executive now has, or has ever had, or ever will have, against each or any of the Releasees, by reason of any and all acts, omissions, events, circumstances or facts existing or occurring up through the date of Executive s execution hereof that
directly or indirectly arise out of, relate to, or are connected with, Executive s services to, or employment by the Company (any of the foregoing being an  Executive Claim  or, collectively, the  Executive Claims ).
     6. Executive expressly waives and relinquishes all rights and benefits afforded by California Civil Code Section 1542
and does so understanding and acknowledging the significance of such specific waiver of Section 1542. Section 1542 states as follows:       A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE
MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR.       Thus, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1542, and for the
purpose of implementing a full and complete release and discharge of the Releasees, Executive expressly acknowledges that this Agreement is intended to include in its effect, without limitation, all Executive Claims that Executive does not know or
suspect to exist in Executive s favor at the time of execution hereof, and that this Agreement contemplates the extinguishment of any such Executive Claim or Executive Claims.   
  7. Excluding enforcement of the covenants, promises and/or rights reserved herein or in the Employment Agreement, and except as otherwise
provided in the  proviso  at the end of this sentence, the Company, hereby irrevocably and unconditionally releases, acquits and discharges Executive, and Executive s heirs, assigns and successors in interest ( Executive
Releasees ) from any and all charges, complaints, claims, liabilities, obligations, promises, agreements, controversies, damages, actions, causes of action, suits, rights, demands, costs, losses, debts and expenses (including attorney s
fees and costs actually incurred), of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, including, but not limited to,   
         3   

rights arising out of alleged violations of any contracts, express or implied, any covenant of good faith and fair dealing, express or implied, or any tort, that the Company now has, or has ever
had, or ever will have, against Executive and/or the Executive Releasees, by reason of any and all acts, omissions, events, circumstances or facts existing or occurring up through the date of the Company s execution hereof, that directly or
indirectly arise out of, relate to, or are connected with, Executive s services to, or employment by the Company (hereinafter referred to as a  Claim  or collectively, the  Claims   provided ,  however , that,
notwithstanding any other term or provision hereof, any Claim or Claims rising out of, under, or resulting from, in part or whole, (i) any illegal or fraudulent act(s) or illegal or fraudulent omission(s) to act of Executive, (ii) any
action(s) or omission(s) to act which would constitute self-dealing or a breach of Executive s confidentiality obligations to the Company or any affiliate thereof, or a breach of The Walt Disney Company and Associated Companies Confidentiality
Agreement executed by Executive, or (iii) the Board s policy, as the same may be in effect from time to time, regarding the ability of the Company to recoup bonus or incentive payments as a result of the Company being required to restate
its financial results due to material noncompliance with financial reporting requirements under the securities laws, are hereby expressly excluded in their entirety from the foregoing release, acquittal and discharge and are unaffected thereby (any
Claim or Claims not so excluded pursuant to this  proviso  being hereinafter referred to as a the  Company Claim  or, collectively, as the  Company Claims ).   
  8. Except as expressly reserved herein, the Company expressly waives and relinquishes all rights and benefits afforded by California
Civil Code Section 1542 and does so understanding and acknowledging the significance of such specific waiver of Section 1542. Section 1542 states as follows:       A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE
MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR.       Thus, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1542, and for the
purpose of implementing a full and complete release, acquittal and discharge of the Executive Releasees with respect to the Company Claims only, the Company expressly acknowledges that this Agreement is intended to include in its effect, without
limitation, all the Company Claims that the Company does not know or suspect to exist in the Company s favor at the time of execution hereof, and that this Agreement contemplates the extinguishment of any such Company Claims.   
  9. Executive understands that Executive has been given a period of 21 days to review and consider this Agreement before signing it
pursuant to the Age Discrimination In Employment Act of 1967, as amended. Executive further   
         4   

understands that Executive may use as much of this 21-day period as Executive wishes prior to signing.      10. Executive acknowledges and represents that he understands that he may revoke the waiver of his rights under the Age Discrimination In Employment Act of 1967, as amended, effectuated in this Agreement
within 7 days of signing this Agreement. Revocation can be made by delivering a written notice of revocation to General Counsel, The Walt Disney Company, 500 South Buena Vista Street, Burbank, California 91521. For this revocation to be effective,
written notice must be received by the General Counsel no later than the close of business on the seventh day after Executive signs this Agreement. If Executive revokes the waiver of his rights under the Age Discrimination In Employment Act of 1967,
as amended, the Company shall have no obligations to Executive hereunder, this Agreement shall have no further force and effect and the Company shall have no obligation to provide Executive with any of the Conditional Benefits (as such term is
defined in this Employment Agreement).      11. Executive and the Company respectively represent and acknowledge that in executing
this Agreement neither of them is relying upon, and has not relied upon, any representation or statement not set forth herein made by any of the agents, representatives or attorneys of the Releasees or of the Executive Releasees with regard to the
subject matter, basis or effect of this Agreement or otherwise.      12. This Agreement shall not in any way be construed as an
admission by any of the Company Releasees or Executive Releasees, respectively, that any Company Releasee or Executive Releasee has acted wrongfully or that the Company or Executive has any rights whatsoever against any of the Company Releasees or
Executive Releasees except as specifically set forth herein, and each of the Company Releasees and Executive Releasees specifically disclaims any liability to any party for any wrongful acts.   
  13. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of California. This Agreement is binding
on the successors and assigns of, and sets forth the entire agreement between, the parties hereto; fully   
         5   

supersedes any and all prior agreements or understandings between the parties hereto pertaining to the subject matter hereof; and may not be changed except by explicit written agreement to that
effect subscribed by the parties hereto.      PLEASE READ CAREFULLY. THIS SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT AND GENERAL RELEASE INCLUDES A
RELEASE OF ALL KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS.      Executed at               ,
California.       

ROBERT A. IGER   

Dated:  

Executed at
                , California.   

THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY   

By:  

Title:  

Dated:  

6   

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.8>
 3
 d232174dex108.htm
 DESCRIPTION OF DIRECTORS COMPENSATION

Description of Directors Compensation 

Exhibit 10.8        Non-Management Director Compensation        Non-Management Directors other than the Chairman
of the Board:        

Each Director will receive a Board retainer of $100,000 (prorated for partial periods of service), payable in quarterly installments in arrears.

Each Director will receive an annual Committee retainer of $10,000 (prorated for partial periods of service) for each Committee of which he or she is a
member, payable in quarterly installments in arrears.          

Each Committee Chair other than the Chair of the Audit Committee will receive an additional annual Committee Chair retainer of $15,000 (prorated for
partial periods of service), payable in quarterly installments in arrears, and the Chair of the Audit Committee will receive an additional annual Committee Chair retainer of $20,000 (prorated for partial periods of service), payable in quarterly
installments in arrears.          

Each Director will receive a quarterly deferred stock unit grant, with a value equal to $37,500 (i.e, $150,000 per year) (prorated for partial periods
of service), based on the average of the high and low trading prices of the Company s common stock averaged over the last ten trading days of the quarter. These units will be fully vested upon crediting and will be distributed to the Director
on the second anniversary of the grant date. The units will be distributed 100% in shares of the Company s common stock.          

Unless the Board exempts a Director, each Director will be required to retain at all times stock representing no less than 50% of the after-tax value
of exercised options and shares received upon distribution of deferred stock units until he or she leaves the Board even if the director already holds shares sufficient to meet any equity retention guidelines set forth in the Company s
 Corporate Governance Guidelines , and any shares retained in satisfaction of this policy will count towards satisfaction of any equity retention provisions of the  Corporate Governance Guidelines .      
   Non-Management Chairman of the Board:        

The Chairman of the Board will receive an annual retainer of $500,000, credited quarterly in arrears in installments of $125,000 each (prorated for
partial periods of service), and payable 100% in the form of deferred stock units of the Company s common stock. The number of stock units credited for each full calendar quarter will be determined by dividing $125,000 by the average of the
high and low trading prices of the Company s common stock averaged over the last ten trading days of the quarter.          

The deferred units will be fully vested upon crediting, will be distributed 100% in shares of the Company s common stock in January of the year
following the year of crediting.          

The Chairman will receive a quarterly deferred stock unit grant with a value of $14,000 (i.e., $56,000 per year) (prorated for partial periods of
service), based on the average of the high and low trading prices of the Company s common stock averaged over the last ten trading days of the quarter. These units will be fully vested upon crediting and will be distributed to the Chairman on
the second anniversary of the grant date. The units will be distributed 100% in shares of the Company s common stock.          

Unless the Board exempts the Chairman, the Chairman will be required to retain at all times stock representing no less than 50% of the after-tax value
of exercised options and shares received upon distribution of deferred stock units until he or she leaves the Board even if the Chairman already holds shares sufficient to meet any equity retention guidelines set forth in the Company s
 Corporate Governance Guidelines , and any shares retained in satisfaction of this policy will count towards satisfaction of any equity retention provisions of the  Corporate Governance Guidelines .      

</EX-10.8>

<EX-21>
 4
 d232174dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

Subsidiaries of the Company 

Exhibit 21    

Name of Subsidiary    

State or Region of Incorporation     

ABC Cable Networks Group   
      
  California   
 
    ABC Enterprises, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    ABC Family Worldwide, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ABC Holding Company Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ABC Kids Europe Holdings, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    ABC Kids SPC1, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ABC, Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    American Broadcasting Companies, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Buena Vista Home Entertainment, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Buena Vista International, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Buena Vista Pay Television, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Buena Vista Television   
      
  California   
 
    Buena Vista Theatrical Group Ltd.   
      
  New York   
 
    Buena Vista Video On Demand   
      
  California   
 
    BVS Entertainment, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cable LT Holdings   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Circle Location Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    DCL Finance UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    DCXLone Development, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Disney Consumer Products Latin America, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Disney Destinations, LLC   
      
  Florida   
 
    Disney Enterprises, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Disney Magic Company Limited   
      
  England   
 
    Disney Online Studios CA   
      
  British Columbia   
 
    Disney Store USA, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Disney Vacation Development, Inc.   
      
  Florida   
 
    Disney/ABC International Television, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ESPN Classic, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ESPN Do Brazil Eventos Espostivos Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    ESPN Enterprises Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ESPN, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Euro Disney S.C.A.   
      
  France   
 
    Hong Kong Disneyland Management Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Imprint, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    International Family Entertainment, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Jetix Europe N.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Jetix Europe Properties (Luxembourg) Sarl-Zurich Branch   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    KTRK Television, Inc.   
      
  Michigan   
 
    Magical Cruise Co, Ltd   
      
  England   
 
    Marvel Characters B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Marvel Characters Inc   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marvel Entertainment, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marvel Studios, LLC.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marvel Worldwide, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Miramax Holding Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pixar   
      
  California   
 
    Playdom, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Shanghai International Theme Park Company Limited   
      
  China   
 
    SoapNet, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    The Walt Disney Company (France) S.A.S.   
      
  France   
 
    The Walt Disney Company (Germany) GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    The Walt Disney Company (Southeast Asia) Pte Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    The Walt Disney Company Iberia S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    The Walt Disney Company Limited   
      
  England   
 
    Touchstone Television Productions, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TWDC (Australia) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    TWDC (Japan) Limited   
      
  Tokyo   
 
    TWDC Italia SRL   
      
  Italy   
 
    Walt Disney Pictures   
      
  California   
 
    Walt Disney Travel Co., Inc.   
      
  Florida   
 
    Walt Disney World Hospitality   Recreation Corporation   
      
  Florida   
 
    WD Parks   Resorts US, Inc   
      
  Florida   
 
    Wedco Participations (Luxembourg) S.C.A.   
      
  Luxembourg   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 d232174dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

Exhibit 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We hereby consent to the
incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No. 333-31012, 333-116952, 333-116953, 333-123516, 333-128860, 333-133840, and 333-176194), and Form S-3 (No. 333-155531 and 333-171048) of The Walt Disney Company of
our report dated November 23, 2011 relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.      PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP      Los Angeles, CA   
  November 23, 2011   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.(A)>
 6
 d232174dex31a.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

Exhibit 31(a)        RULE 13a-14(a) CERTIFICATION IN        ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 302
       OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Robert A. Iger, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Walt Disney Company (the Company), certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of the Company;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: November 23, 2011   

By:  
     
  / S /    R OBERT  A. I GER    

Robert A. Iger   

President and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.(A)>

<EX-31.(B)>
 7
 d232174dex31b.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

Exhibit 31(b)        RULE 13a-14(a) CERTIFICATION IN        ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 302
       OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, James A. Rasulo, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Walt Disney Company (the Company), certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of the Company;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: November 23, 2011    

By:  
     
  /s/    JAMES A. RASULO   

James A. Rasulo   

Senior Executive Vice President   

and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.(B)>

<EX-32.(A)>
 8
 d232174dex32a.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 906 Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

Exhibit 32(a)        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002*
      In connection with the Annual Report of The Walt Disney Company (the Company) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
October 1, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I, Robert A. Iger, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to
 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:       

1.  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and     

2.  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the Company.

By:  
     
  / S /    R OBERT  A. I GER    

Robert A. Iger   

President and Chief Executive Officer     November 23, 2011    

*  
  A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to The Walt Disney Company and will be retained by The Walt Disney Company
and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.     

</EX-32.(A)>

<EX-32.(B)>
 9
 d232174dex32b.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 906 Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

Exhibit 32(b)        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002*
      In connection with the Annual Report of The Walt Disney Company (the Company) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
October 1, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I, James A. Rasulo, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as
adopted pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:       

1.  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and     

2.  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the Company.

By:  
     
  /s/    JAMES A. RASULO   

James A. Rasulo   

Senior Executive Vice President   

and Chief Financial Officer   

November 23, 2011   

*  
  A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to The Walt Disney Company and will be retained by The Walt Disney Company
and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.     

</EX-32.(B)>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 dis-20111001.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 dis-20111001.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 dis-20111001_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 dis-20111001_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 dis-20111001_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 dis-20111001_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

