<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080225_10-K_edgar_data_36104_0000950124-08-000806_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>4855913</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>491056</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>8466</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3567371</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>112</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950124-08-000806.hdr.sgml : 20080225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080225151323
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950124-08-000806
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		11
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			US BANCORP \DE\
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000036104
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS [6021]
		IRS NUMBER:				410255900
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06880
		FILM NUMBER:		08639312

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		U.S.BANCORP
		STREET 2:		800 NICOLLET MALL
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55402
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(651)466-3000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		U.S.BANCORP
		STREET 2:		800 NICOLLET MALL
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55402

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	FIRST BANK SYSTEM INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	FIRST BANK STOCK CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19720317

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 CqjgzjPHVKI7miQTj2g1lNPiBX/FeJgZN9LUGnq5Y2qdFgrQG/Y/MnBScaE8ggl9
 sq4nwpleujUi3HPYJx6OYA==

 0000950124-08-000806.txt : 20080225

10-K
 1
 c22668e10vk.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
      Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission file
     number: 1-6880  

U.S. Bancorp  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Delaware 

41-0255900 

(State or other jurisdiction
    of 
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)   

800
    Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402 
         (Address
    of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)   

(651) 446-3000   

(Registrant s telephone
    number, including area code)  

Securities
    registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common Stock, $.01 par value per share

New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares (each representing 
      1/1,000th interest in a share of
    Series B 
      Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $1.00)

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer    

Accelerated
    filer    

Non-accelerated
    filer      
    (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act).  Yes         No   

As of June 29, 2007, the aggregate market value of the
    registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the
    registrant was $56.9 billion based on the closing sale
    price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
    registrant s classes of common stock, as of the latest
    practicable date.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Document 

Parts Into Which Incorporated 

1.

Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal
    Year Ended December 31, 2007 (2007 Annual Report)

Parts I and II

2.

Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders to be held April 15, 2008 (Proxy Statement)

Part III

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

PART I   
     Item 1. Business   
     Item 1A. Risk Factors   
     Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   
     Item 2. Properties   
     Item 3. Legal Proceedings   
     Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
   PART II   
     Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
     Item 6. Selected Financial Data   
     Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
     Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
     Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
     Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
     Item 9A. Controls and Procedures   
     Item 9B. Other Information   
   PART III   
     Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
     Item 11. Executive Compensation   
     Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
     Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
     Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
   PART IV   
     Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   
   SIGNATURES   
   Employment Agreement with Pamela A. Joseph   
   Statement re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges   
   2007 Annual Report   
   Subsidiaries of the Registrant   
   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP   
   Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)   
   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)   
   Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906   

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.      

Business   

Information in response to this Item 1 can be found in our
    2007 Annual Report on pages 114 to 115 under the headings
     General Business Description, 
     Competition,   Government Policies  and
     Supervision and Regulation  on pages 56 to 60
    under the heading  Line of Business Financial Review 
    and on page 119 under the heading  Website Access to
    SEC Reports.  That information is incorporated into this
    report by reference.

Item 1A.      

Risk
    Factors   

Information in response to this Item 1A can be found in our
    2007 Annual Report on pages 115 to 119 under the heading
     Risk Factors.  That information is incorporated into
    this report by reference.

Item 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

None.

Item 2.      

Properties   

Information in response to this Item 2 can be found in our
    2007 Annual Report on page 115 under the heading
     Properties.  That information is incorporated into
    this report by reference.

Item 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings   

None.

Item 4.      

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

None.

Capital
    Covenants  

The Company has entered into several transactions involving the
    issuance of capital securities ( Capital Securities )
    by Delaware statutory trusts formed by the Company (the
     Trusts ), the issuance by the Company of preferred
    stock ( Preferred Stock ) or the issuance by an
    indirect subsidiary of U.S. Bank National Association of
    preferred stock exchangeable for the Company s Preferred
    Stock under certain circumstances ( Exchangeable Preferred
    Stock ). Simultaneously with the closing of each of those
    transactions, the Company entered into a replacement capital
    covenant (each, a  Replacement Capital Covenant  and
    collectively, the  Replacement Capital Covenants ) for
    the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series
    of long-term indebtedness of the Company or U.S. Bank
    National Association (the  Covered Debt ). Each of the
    Replacement Capital Covenants provides that neither the Company
    nor any of its subsidiaries (including any of the Trusts) will
    repay, redeem or purchase any of the Preferred Stock,
    Exchangeable Preferred Stock or the Capital Securities and the
    securities held by the Trust (the  Other Securities ),
    as applicable, on or before the date specified in the applicable
    Replacement Capital Covenant, with certain limited exceptions,
    except to the extent that, during the 180 days prior to the
    date of that repayment, redemption or purchase, the Company has
    received proceeds from the sale of qualifying securities that
    (i) have equity-like characteristics that are the same as,
    or more equity-like than, the applicable characteristics of the
    Preferred Stock, the Exchangeable Preferred Stock, the Capital
    Securities or Other Securities, as applicable, at the time of
    repayment, redemption or purchase, and (ii) the Company has
    obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, if
    such approval is then required by the Federal Reserve Board or,
    in the case of the Exchangeable Preferred Stock, the approval of
    the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.

The Company will provide a copy of any Replacement Capital
    Covenant to a holder of the relevant Covered Debt. For copies of
    any of these documents, holders should write to Investor
    Relations, U.S. Bancorp, 800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis,
    Minnesota 55402, or call
     (866) 775-9668. 

1

Table of Contents   

The following table identifies the (i) closing date for
    each transaction, (ii) issuer, (iii) series of Capital
    Securities, Preferred Stock or Exchangeable Preferred Stock
    issued in the relevant transaction, (iv) Other Securities,
    if any, and (v) applicable Covered Debt.

(a)

USB Realty Corp. is an indirect
    subsidiary of U.S. Bank National Association.    

(b)

Under certain circumstances,
    upon the direction of the Office of the Comptroller of the
    Currency, each share of USB Realty Corp. s Series A
    Preferred Stock will be automatically exchanged for one share of
    the U.S. Bancorp s Series C Non-cumulative Perpetual
    Preferred Stock.   

2

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

Information in response to this Item 5 can be found in our
    2007 Annual Report on pages 52 to 54 under the heading
     Capital Management  and on page 111 under the
    heading  U.S. Bancorp Supplemental Financial
    Data.  That information is incorporated into this report by
    reference.

At January 31, 2008, there were 63,721 holders of
    record of the Company s common stock.

Item 6.      

Selected
    Financial Data   

Information in response to this Item 6 can be found in our
    2007 Annual Report on page 19 under the heading  Table
    1   Selected Financial Data.  That information is
    incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 7.      

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

Information in response to this Item 7 can be found in our
    2007 Annual Report on pages 18 to 64 under the heading
     Management s Discussion and Analysis.  That
    information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 7A.      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Information in response to this Item 7A can be found in our
    2007 Annual Report on pages 33 to 54 under the heading
     Corporate Risk Profile.  That information is
    incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 8.      

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

Information in response to this Item 8 can be found in our
    2007 Annual Report on pages 65 to 113 under the headings
     Report of Management,   Report of Independent
    Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Consolidated Financial
    Statements,   Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting,   U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Balance
    Sheet,   U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of
    Income,   U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of
    Shareholders  Equity,   U.S. Bancorp
    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows,   Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements,   U.S. Bancorp
    Consolidated Balance Sheet   Five Year Summary, 
     U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of
    Income   Five Year Summary, 
     U.S. Bancorp Quarterly Consolidated Financial
    Data,   U.S. Bancorp Supplemental Financial
    Data  and  U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Daily
    Average Balance Sheet and Related Yields and Rates.  That
    information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 9.      

Changes
    In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

None.

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures   

Information in response to this Item 9A can be found in our
    2007 Annual Report on page 64 under the heading
     Controls and Procedures  and on pages 65 and 67
    under the headings  Report of Management  and
     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.  That
    information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information   

None.

3

Table of Contents   

PART III  

Item 10.      

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

Richard
    K. Davis   

Mr. Davis is Chairman, President and Chief Executive
    Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Davis, 50, has served as
    Chairman of U.S. Bancorp since December 2007, Chief
    Executive Officer since December 2006 and President since
    October 2004. He also served as Chief Operating Officer from
    October 2004 until December 2006. From the time of the merger of
    Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February 2001 until
    October 2004, Mr. Davis served as Vice Chairman of
    U.S. Bancorp. From the time of the merger, Mr. Davis
    was responsible for Consumer Banking, including Retail Payment
    Solutions (card services), and he assumed additional
    responsibility for Commercial Banking in 2003. Mr. Davis
    has held management positions with our Company since joining
    Star Banc Corporation, one of our predecessors, in 1993 as
    Executive Vice President.

Jennie
    P. Carlson   

Ms. Carlson is Executive Vice President of
    U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Carlson, 47, has served as Executive
    Vice President, Human Resources since January 2002. Until that
    time, she served as Executive Vice President, Deputy General
    Counsel and Corporate Secretary of U.S. Bancorp since the
    merger of Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February
    2001. From 1995 until the merger, she was General Counsel and
    Secretary of Firstar Corporation and Star Banc Corporation.

Andrew
    Cecere   

Mr. Cecere is Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of
    U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Cecere, 47, has served as Chief
    Financial Officer of U.S. Bancorp since February 2007, and
    Vice Chairman since the merger of Firstar Corporation and
    U.S. Bancorp in February 2001. From February 2001 until
    February 2007 he was responsible for Wealth
    Management   Securities Services. Previously, he had
    served as an executive officer of the former U.S. Bancorp,
    including as Chief Financial Officer from May 2000 through
    February 2001.

William
    L. Chenevich   

Mr. Chenevich is Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Chenevich, 64, has served as Vice Chairman of
    U.S. Bancorp since the merger of Firstar Corporation and
    U.S. Bancorp in February 2001, when he assumed
    responsibility for Technology and Operations Services.
    Previously, he served as Vice Chairman of Technology and
    Operations Services of Firstar Corporation from 1999 to 2001.

Richard
    C. Hartnack   

Mr. Hartnack is Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Hartnack, 62, has served in this position since April
    2005, when he joined U.S. Bancorp to assume responsibility
    for Consumer Banking. Prior to joining U.S. Bancorp, he
    served as Vice Chairman of Union Bank of California from 1991 to
    2005 with responsibility for Community Banking and Investment
    Services.

Richard
    J. Hidy   

Mr. Hidy is Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer
    of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hidy, 45, has served in these
    positions since 2005. From 2003 until 2005, he served as Senior
    Vice President and Deputy General Counsel of U.S. Bancorp,
    having served as Senior Vice President and Associate General
    Counsel of U.S. Bancorp and Firstar Corporation since 1999.

4

Table of Contents   

Joseph
    C. Hoesley   

Mr. Hoesley is Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Hoesley, 53, has served as Vice Chairman of
    U.S. Bancorp since June 2006. From June 2002 until June
    2006, he served as Executive Vice President and National Group
    Head of Commercial Real Estate at U.S. Bancorp, having
    previously served as Senior Vice President and Group Head of
    Commercial Real Estate at U.S. Bancorp since joining
    U.S. Bancorp in 1992.

Pamela
    A. Joseph   

Ms. Joseph is Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp.
    Ms. Joseph, 48, has served as Vice Chairman of
    U.S. Bancorp since December 2004. Since November 2004, she
    has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NOVA
    Information Systems, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of
    U.S. Bancorp. Prior to that time, she had been President
    and Chief Operating Officer of NOVA Information Systems, Inc.
    since February 2000.

Lee R.
    Mitau   

Mr. Mitau is Executive Vice President and General Counsel
    of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Mitau, 59, has served in these
    positions since 1995. Mr. Mitau also serves as Corporate
    Secretary. Prior to 1995 he was a partner at the law firm of
    Dorsey   Whitney LLP.

Joseph
    M. Otting   

Mr. Otting is Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Otting, 50, has served in this position since April
    2005, when he assumed responsibility for Commercial Banking.
    Previously, he served as Executive Vice President, East
    Commercial Banking Group of U.S. Bancorp from June 2003 to
    April 2005. He served as Market President of U.S. Bank in
    Oregon from December 2001 until June 2003.

P.W.
    Parker   

Mr. Parker is Executive Vice President and Chief Credit
    Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Parker, 51, has served in
    this position since October 2007. From March 2005 until October
    2007, he served as Executive Vice President of Credit Portfolio
    Management of U.S. Bancorp, having served as Senior Vice
    President of Credit Portfolio Management of U.S. Bancorp
    since January 2002.

Richard
    B. Payne, Jr.   

Mr. Payne is Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Payne, 60, has served in this position since July 2006,
    when he joined U.S. Bancorp to assume responsibility for
    Corporate Banking. Prior to joining U.S. Bancorp, he served
    as Executive Vice President for National City Corporation in
    Cleveland, with responsibility for Capital Markets, since 2001.

Diane
    L. Thormodsgard   

Ms. Thormodsgard is Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp.
    Ms. Thormodsgard, 57, has served as Vice Chairman of
    U.S. Bancorp since April 2007, when she assumed
    responsibility for Wealth Management   Securities
    Services. From 1999 until April 2007, she served as President of
    Corporate Trust and Institutional Trust   Custody
    services of U.S. Bancorp, having previously served as Chief
    Administrative Officer of Corporate Trust at U.S. Bancorp
    from 1995 to 1999.

Code of
    Ethics and Business Conduct  

We have adopted a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that
    applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial
    officer and principal accounting officer. Our Code of Ethics and
    Business Conduct can be found at  www.usbank.com  by
    clicking on About U.S. Bancorp and then Corporate
    Governance. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements
    under Item 5.05 of
     Form 8-K 
    regarding amendments to, or waivers from, certain provisions of
    the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that apply to our
    principal executive officer, principal financial officer

5

Table of Contents   

and principal accounting officer by posting such information on
    our website, at the address and location specified above.

Additional
    Information  

Additional information in response to this Item 10 can be
    found in our Proxy Statement under the headings
     Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance  and  Director Nominees for Terms Ending in
    2009,   Directors with Terms Ending in 2009, 
     Directors with Terms Ending in 2010  and  Board
    Meetings and Committees.  That information is incorporated
    into this report by reference.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

Information in response to this Item 11 can be found in our
    Proxy Statement under the headings  Executive
    Compensation,   Director Compensation  and
     Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
    Participation. 

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information  

The following table summarizes information regarding the
    Company s equity compensation plans in effect as of
    December 31, 2007:

(a)  

No shares are available for granting future awards under the
    U.S. Bancorp 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, the U.S. Bancorp
    1998 Executive Stock Incentive Plan or the U.S. Bancorp 1991
    Executive Stock Incentive plan. The 68,344,883 shares
    available under the U.S. Bancorp 2007 Stock Incentive Plan are
    available for future awards in the form of stock options, stock
    appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units,
    performance awards or other stock-based awards, except that only
    24,830,820 of these shares are available for future grants of
    awards other than stock options or stock appreciation rights.  

(b)   

Includes shares underlying stock options and restricted stock
    units (convertible into shares of the Company s common
    stock on a one-for-one basis) under the U.S. Bancorp 2007 Stock
    Incentive Plan, the U.S. Bancorp 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, the
    U.S. Bancorp 1998 Executive Stock Incentive Plan and the U.S.
    Bancorp 1991 Executive Stock Incentive Plan. Excludes
    17,095,731 shares underlying outstanding stock options and
    warrants assumed by U.S. Bancorp in connection with acquisitions
    by U.S. Bancorp. Of the excluded shares, 16,144,794 underlie
    stock options granted under equity compensation plans of the
    former U.S. Bancorp that were approved by the shareholders of
    the former U.S. Bancorp.  

(c)   

Includes 3,178,642 shares of common stock issuable
    pursuant to various current and former deferred compensation
    plans of U.S. Bancorp and its predecessor entities. All of the
    remaining identified shares underlie stock options granted to a
    broad-based employee population pursuant to the U.S. Bancorp
    2001 Employee Stock Incentive Plan ( 2001 Plan ), the
    Firstar Corporation 1999 Employee Stock Incentive Plan
    ( 1999 Plan ) and the Firstar Corporation 1998
    Employee Stock Incentive Plan ( 1998 Plan ).  

(d)   

The weighted-average exercise price does not include any
    assumed price at issuance of shares that may be issuable
    pursuant to the deferred compensation plans.  

6

Table of Contents   

As of December 31, 2007, options to purchase an aggregate
    of 1,891,326 shares were outstanding under the 2001 Plan.
    Under the 2001 Plan, nonqualified stock options were granted to
    full-time or part-time employees actively employed by
    U.S. Bancorp on the grant date, other than individuals
    eligible to participate in any of the Company s executive
    stock incentive plans.  All options outstanding under the plan
    were granted on February 27, 2001.

As of December 31, 2007, options to purchase an aggregate
    of 521,689 shares of the Company s common stock were
    outstanding under the 1999 Plan. Under this plan, stock options
    were granted to each full-time or part-time employee actively
    employed by Firstar Corporation on the grant date, other than
    managers who participated in an executive stock incentive plan.

As of December 31, 2007, options to purchase an aggregate
    of 722,569 shares of the Company s common stock were
    outstanding under the 1998 Plan. Under this plan, stock options
    were granted to each full-time or part-time employee actively
    employed by Firstar Corporation on the grant date, other than
    managers who participated in an executive stock incentive plan.

No further options will be granted under the 2001 Plan, the 1999
    Plan or the 1998 Plan. Under all of these plans, the exercise
    price of the options equals the fair market value of the
    underlying common stock on the grant date. All options granted
    under the plans have a term of 10 years from the grant date
    and become exercisable over a period of time set forth in the
    relevant plan or as determined by the committee administering
    the relevant plan. Options granted under the plans are
    nontransferable and, during the optionee s lifetime, are
    exercisable only by the optionee.

If an optionee is terminated as a result of his or her gross
    misconduct or offense, all options terminate immediately,
    whether or not vested. Under the 2001 Plan, the 1999 Plan and
    the 1998 Plan, in the event an optionee is terminated
    immediately following a change in control (as defined in the
    plans) of U.S. Bancorp, and the termination is due to
    business needs resulting from the change in control and not as a
    result of the optionee s performance or conduct, all of the
    optionee s outstanding options will become immediately
    vested and exercisable as of the date of termination.

If the outstanding shares of the Company s common stock are
    changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of
    stock or other securities as a result of a reorganization,
    recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split, combination of
    shares, reclassification, merger, consolidation or similar
    event, the number of shares underlying outstanding options also
    may be adjusted. The plans may be terminated, amended or
    modified by the Board of Directors at any time.

The deferred compensation plans allow non-employee directors and
    members of the Company s senior management to defer all or
    part of their compensation until the earlier of retirement or
    termination of employment. The deferred compensation is deemed
    to be invested in one of several investment alternatives at the
    option of the participant, including shares of U.S. Bancorp
    common stock. Deferred compensation deemed to be invested in
    U.S. Bancorp stock may be received at the time of
    distribution at the election of the participant, in the form of
    shares of U.S. Bancorp common stock. The
    3,178,642 shares included in the table assumes that
    participants in the plans whose deferred compensation had been
    deemed to be invested in U.S. Bancorp common stock had
    elected to receive all of that deferred compensation in shares
    of U.S. Bancorp common stock on December 31, 2007. The
    U.S. Bancorp 2005 Executive Employees Deferred Compensation
    Plan and the U.S. Bancorp 2005 Outside Directors Deferred
    Compensation Plan are the Company s only deferred
    compensation plans under which compensation may currently be
    deferred.

Additional
    Information  

Additional Information in response to this Item 12 can be
    found in our Proxy Statement under the heading  Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management. 
    That information is incorporated into this report by reference.

7

Table of Contents   

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence   

Information in response to this Item 13 can be found in our
    Proxy Statement under the headings  Director
    Independence  and  Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions.  That information is incorporated into this
    report by reference.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accounting Fees and Services   

Information in response to this Item 14 can be found in our
    Proxy Statement under the headings  Audit Fees, 
     Audit-Related Fees,   Tax Fees,   All
    Other Fees  and  Administration of Engagement of
    Independent Auditor.  That information is incorporated into
    this report by reference.

PART IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits,
    Financial Statement Schedules   

List of
    documents filed as part of this report

1.    

Financial
    Statements  

Report of Management

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the
    Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheet as of
    December 31, 2007 and 2006

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Income for each of
    the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Shareholders 
    Equity for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2007

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for each
    of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheet   Five
    Year Summary

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Income  
    Five Year Summary

U.S. Bancorp Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data

U.S. Bancorp Supplemental Financial Data

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Daily Average Balance Sheet and
    Related Yields and Rates

2.    

Financial
    Statement Schedules  

All financial statement schedules for the Company have been
    included in the consolidated financial statements or the related
    footnotes, or are either inapplicable or not required.

8

Table of Contents   

Shareholders may obtain a copy of any of the exhibits to this
    report upon payment of a fee covering our reasonable expenses in
    furnishing the exhibits. You can request exhibits by writing to
    Investor Relations, U.S. Bancorp, 800 Nicollet Mall,
    Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402.

9

Table of Contents   

10

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Exhibit has been previously filed with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission and is incorporated herein as an exhibit by
    reference to the prior filing.  

(2)  

Management contracts or compensatory plans or
    arrangements.  

11

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on February 25, 2008, on its
    behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

U.S. BANCORP 

By 

/s/   Richard
    K. Davis 

Richard K. Davis

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below on February 25,
    2008, by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
    in the capacities indicated.

Signature and Title 

/s/   Richard
    K. Davis 

Richard
    K. Davis, 
    Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer 
    (principal executive officer)

/s/   Andrew
    Cecere 
 
 Andrew
    Cecere, 
    Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer 
    (principal financial officer)

/s/   Terrance
    R. Dolan 

Terrance
    R. Dolan, 
    Executive Vice President and Controller 
    (principal accounting officer)

Douglas
    M. Baker, Jr., Director

/s/   Victoria
    Buyniski Gluckman 

Victoria
    Buyniski Gluckman, Director

/s/   Arthur
    D. Collins, Jr. 

Arthur
    D. Collins, Jr., Director

/s/   Peter
    H. Coors 

Peter
    H. Coors, Director

/s/   Joel
    W. Johnson 

Joel
    W. Johnson, Director

12

Table of Contents   

Signature and Title 

/s/   Olivia
    F. Kirtley 

Olivia
    F. Kirtley, Director

/s/   Jerry
    W. Levin 

Jerry
    W. Levin, Director

/s/   David
    B. O Maley 

David
    B. O Maley, Director

/s/   O dell
    M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H. 

O dell
    M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H., Director

/s/   Richard
    G. Reiten 

Richard
    G. Reiten, Director

/s/   Craig
    D. Schnuck 

Craig
    D. Schnuck, Director

/s/   Warren
    R. Staley 

Warren
    R. Staley, Director

/s/   Patrick
    T. Stokes 

Patrick
    T. Stokes, Director

13

<EX-10.37>
 2
 c22668exv10w37.htm
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT WITH PAMELA A. JOSEPH

exv10w37 

Exhibit 10.37 

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 

THIS
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT  (this  Agreement ) is made as of this 7 th  day of May,
2001 by and among
  Pamela A. Joseph   (hereinafter referred to as  Employee ),  NOVA 
  Corporation,   a Georgia corporation ( NOVA Corp ),  NOVA INFORMATION SYSTEMS, INC.,  a
Georgia corporation ( NOVA ) and  U.S. 
  Bancorp,   a Delaware corporation ( Parent ).

WITNESSETH : 

WHEREAS,  NOVA Corp, through its direct and indirect subsidiaries, and Parent are in the
business of providing credit card and debit card transaction processing services and settlement
services (including the related products and services of automated teller machines and check
guarantee services) to merchants, financial institutions, independent sales organizations
( ISOs ), and other similar customers (collectively, the  Business ) throughout the United States
and in Europe;

WHEREAS , Employee currently serves as President of NOVA, and as Senior Executive Vice
President of NOVA Corp pursuant to an Employment Agreement between Employee and NOVA Corp
effective February 22, 2001 (the  Prior Agreement 

WHEREAS , Parent and NOVA Corp have entered into the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of
May 7, 2001 (the  Merger Agreement ), pursuant to which NOVA Corp will be merged with and into
Parent (the  Merger ) on the terms and subject to the conditions of the Merger Agreement;

WHEREAS , NOVA and Parent, or their assigns, will continue to engage in the Business
throughout the United States and Europe (the  Territory 

WHEREAS , NOVA Corp and Employee desire to terminate the Prior Agreement, which termination
shall be contemporaneous with the effectiveness of this Agreement;

WHEREAS , Parent desires to retain the services of Employee on the terms and conditions set
forth in this Agreement, and Employee desires to be employed by Parent on such terms and
conditions;

NOW, THEREFORE,  for and in consideration of the Confidential Information and Trade Secrets
(as hereafter defined) furnished to Employee by NOVA and Parent in order that she may perform her
duties under this Agreement, the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, and other
valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties
hereto agree as follows:

1.  Employment of Employee.  Parent hereby employs Employee for a period beginning as of the
effective date of the Merger (the  Effective Date ) and ending two (2) years thereafter (the
 Initial Term ), unless Employee s employment by Parent is sooner terminated or automatically
renewed pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (Employee s employment by Parent pursuant to the
terms of this Agreement shall hereinafter be referred to as  Employment ).

(a) Employee agrees to such Employment on the terms and conditions herein set
forth and agrees to devote her reasonable best efforts to her duties under this
Agreement and to
perform such duties diligently and efficiently and in accordance with the directions of
NOVA s
Chief Executive Officer.

(b) During the term of Employee s Employment, Employee shall serve as Senior
Executive Vice President of NOVA. Employee shall be responsible primarily for such
duties as

are assigned to her, from time to time, by NOVA s Chief Executive Officer, which in any
event shall be such duties as are customary for an officer in those positions.

(c) Employee shall devote substantially all of her business time, attention, and
energies to the business and the affairs of Parent, shall act at all times in the best
interests of Parent, and shall not during the term of her Employment be engaged in any
other business activity, whether or not such business is pursued for gain, profit, or other
pecuniary advantage, or permit such personal interests as she may have to interfere with
the performance of her duties hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Employee may
participate in industry, civic and charitable activities so long as such activities do not
materially interfere with the performance of her duties hereunder.

2.  Compensation.
 During the term of Employee s Employment and in accordance with the terms hereof, Parent shall pay
or otherwise provide to Employee the following compensation:

(a) Employee s annual salary during the term of her Employment shall be Three
Hundred Sixty Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($360,000) (or such increased base salary as
approved by NOVA Corp prior to the Merger, not to exceed 115% of such amount) ( Base
Salary ) , with such increases (each, a  Merit Increase ) as may from time to time be
deemed
appropriate by NOVA s Chief Executive Officer; provided, however, that so long as this
Agreement remains in effect, Employee s Base Salary shall be reviewed annually by
NOVA s
Chief Executive Officer in each fiscal year, within a reasonable time following the
availability of
Parent s financial statements for the preceding fiscal year. The Base Salary shall be
paid by
Parent in accordance with Parent s regular payroll practice. As used herein, the term
 Base
Salary  shall be deemed to include any Merit Increases granted to Employee.

(b) In addition to the Base Salary, Employee shall be eligible to receive annual bonus
compensation ( Bonus Compensation ) in the amount, and on the terms and conditions
described
in the Annual Incentive Compensation Schedule attached as  Exhibit A  or such
other terms as
NOVA s Chief Executive Officer shall, prior to the Merger and after reasonable
consultation with
Employee, determine (the  Incentive Compensation Plan ), provided, however, that if
Employee
no longer is working primarily in the Business, Parent shall provide Employee with a
different
incentive compensation plan under which Employee will have a substantially similar
opportunity
to achieve annual bonus compensation in a substantially similar amount.

(c) Employee will be granted on the Effective Date the option to purchase 250,000
shares of Parent common stock at a price per share equal to the closing price of Parent
common
stock on the Effective Date (the  Option ). The Option will vest in four (4) equal
increments of
25%. The first increment will vest on the first anniversary of the Effective Date.
Another
increment of the Option will vest every year thereafter until 100% of the Option is
vested.

(d) Parent may withhold from any benefits payable under this Agreement all federal,
state, city or other taxes as shall be required pursuant to any law or governmental
regulation or
ruling.

3.  Benefits.  During the term of Employee s employment, and for such time thereafter as
may be required by Section 7 hereof, Parent shall provide to Employee the following benefits
(or in lieu
thereof for a transitional period immediately following the Merger, benefits equivalent to
those provided
to Employee by NOVA Corp immediately prior to the Merger):

2 

(a)  Medical Insurance.  Employee and her dependents shall be entitled to
participate
in such medical, dental, vision, prescription drug, wellness, or other health care or
medical
coverage plans as may be established, offered or adopted from time to time by Parent
for the
benefit of similarly situated employees pursuant to the terms set forth in such plans.

(b)  Life Insurance.  Employee shall be entitled to participate in any life
insurance
plans established, offered, or adopted from time to time by Parent for the benefit of
its similarly
situated employees.

(c)  Disability Insurance.  Employee shall be entitled to participate in any
disability
insurance plans established, offered, or adopted from time to time by Parent for the
benefit of its
similarly situated employees.

(d)  Vacations. Holidays.  Employee shall be entitled to at least four (4) weeks
of paid
vacation each year and all holidays observed Parent.

(e)  Stock Option Plans.  Employee shall be eligible for participation in any
stock
option plan or restricted stock plan adopted by Parent s Board of Directors or the
Compensation
Committee.

(f)  Other Benefits.  In addition to and not in any way in limitation of the
benefits set
forth in this Section 3, Employee shall be eligible to participate in all additional
employee
benefits provided by Parent (including, without limitation, all tax-qualified
retirement plans, non
qualified retirement and/or deferred compensation plans, incentive plans, other stock
option or
purchase plans, and fringe benefits) on the same basis as such are afforded to
similarly situated
employees of Parent during the term of this Agreement.

(g)  Terms and Provisions of Plans.  Parent agrees that it shall not take action
(during
the term of this Agreement or the  Continuation Period,  as defined in Section 7(a)) to
modify the
terms and provisions of any such plan or arrangement so as to exclude  only  Employee
and/or her
dependents, either by excluding Employee and/or her dependents explicitly by name or by
modifying provisions generally applicable to all employees and dependents so that only
Employee and/or her dependents would be affected.

(h)  Vesting of Rights.  Upon the occurrence of a  Change in Control  (as
defined in Section 7(f)) during the term of this Agreement, and regardless of whether
Employee terminates this Agreement following such occurrence, and notwithstanding any
provision to the contrary in any other agreement or document (including Parent s applicable
plan documents), all stock options, restricted stock, and other similar rights that have
been granted to Employee and that are not vested on the date of occurrence of such an
event, as well as any non-qualified retirement balance or deferred compensation plan
balance (collectively, the  Rights ) that are not vested on the date of occurrence of such
an event, shall become vested and exercisable immediately . As provided under the
applicable plan or agreement, Employee shall have the right to exercise any or all of the
Rights. Upon the Effective Date, the Rights of Employee existing on the Effective Date
shall be and become fully vested, nonforfeitable and immediately exercisable.

4.  Personnel Policies.  Employee shall conduct herself at all times in a businesslike and
professional manner as appropriate for a person in her position and shall represent Parent in all
respects with good business and ethical practices. In addition, Employee shall be subject to and
abide by the policies and procedures of Parent applicable generally to personnel of Parent, as
adopted from time to time.

3 

5.  Reimbursement for Business Expenses.  Employee shall be reimbursed, on no less
frequently than a monthly basis, for all out-of-pocket business expenses incurred by her in
the
performance of her duties hereunder, provided that Employee shall first document and
substantiate said
business expenses in the manner generally required by Parent under its policies and
procedures.

6.  Term and Termination of Employment. 

(a) This Agreement shall be effective as of the Effective Date.

(b) Employee s Employment shall terminate immediately upon the discharge of
Employee by Parent for  Cause.  For the purposes of this Agreement, the term  Cause, 
when
used with respect to termination by Parent of Employee s Employment hereunder, shall
mean
termination as a result of: (i) Employee s violation of the covenants set forth in
Section 10 or 11;
(ii) Employee s willful, intentional, or grossly negligent failure to perform her
duties under this
Agreement diligently and in accordance with the directions of Parent; (iii) Employee s
willful,
intentional, or grossly negligent failure to comply with the decisions or policies of
Parent; or (iv)
final conviction of Employee of a felony;  provided,   however,  that in the event
Parent desires to
terminate Employee s Employment pursuant to subsections (i), (ii), or (iii) of this
Section 6(b),
Parent shall first give Employee written notice of such intent, detailed and specific
description of
the reasons and basis therefor, and thirty (30) days to remedy or cure such perceived
breaches or
deficiencies (the  Cure Period   provided,   however,  that with respect only to
breaches that it is
not possible to cure within such thirty (30) day period, so long as Employee is
diligently using her
best efforts to cure such breaches or deficiencies within such period and thereafter,
the Cure
Period shall be automatically extended for an additional period of time (not to exceed
sixty (60)
days) to enable Employee to cure such breaches or deficiencies,  provided, 
 further,  that Employee
continues to diligently use her best efforts to cure such breaches or deficiencies.
If Employee
does not cure the perceived breaches or deficiencies within the Cure Period, Parent may
discharge
Employee immediately upon written notice to Employee. If Parent desires to terminate
Employee s Employment pursuant to subsection (iv) of this Section 6(b), Parent shall
first give
Employee three (3) days prior written notice of such intent.

(c)
Employee s Employment shall terminate immediately upon the death of Employee.

(d) Employee s Employment shall terminate immediately upon thirty (30) days prior
written notice to Employee if Employee shall at any time be incapacitated by reason of
physical
or mental illness or otherwise become incapable of performing the duties under this
Agreement
for a continuous period of one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days;  provided,   however,  to the
extent Parent could, with reasonable accommodation and without undue hardship, continue
to
employ Employee in some other capacity after such one hundred eighty (180) day period,
Parent
shall, to the extent required by the Americans With Disabilities Act, offer to do so,
and, if such
offer is accepted by Employee, Employee shall be compensated accordingly.

(e) Employee may terminate this Agreement, upon thirty (30) days prior written
notice to Parent (the  Notice Period ), in the event (i) there is a material diminution
in
Employee s duties and responsibilities from the duties and responsibilities held by
Employee
immediately prior to the Merger, or such greater duties and responsibilities, as may be
assigned to
Employee from time to time;  provided,   however,  that the change in Employee s
duties and
responsibilities resulting from Employee no longer being an officer of a publicly
traded company
shall not, by itself, be sufficient to qualify as a  Responsibilities Breach  (ii)
Employee is
required to relocate to an office that is more than thirty-five (35) miles from
Employee s current

4 

office located at One Concourse Parkway, Suite 300, Atlanta, Georgia 30328; (iii) there is a
reduction in Employee s Base Salary payable under Section 2, an adverse change in the terms of the
Incentive Compensation Plan, or a material reduction in benefits provided to Employee under Section
3 (whether occurring at once or over a period of time); or (iv) NOVA or Parent materially breaches
this Agreement, (each of (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) being referred to as a  Responsibilities
Breach ), and Parent fails to cure said Responsibilities Breach within the Notice Period;
 provided,   however,  that with respect only to breaches that it is not possible to cure
within the Notice Period, so long as Parent is diligently using its best efforts to cure such
breaches within such Notice Period, the Notice Period shall be automatically extended for an
additional period of time (not to exceed sixty (60) days) to enable Parent to cure such breaches,
 provided,   further,  that Parent continues to diligently use its best efforts to cure such
breaches. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 6(e), the Notice Period for any
breach arising from the failure to pay compensation shall be five (5) days.

(f) Employee may terminate this Agreement at any time, without cause, upon thirty 
(30) days prior written notice to Parent.

(g) Parent may terminate this Agreement at any time, without cause, upon written 
notice to Employee.

(h) This Agreement shall automatically renew for successive one (1) year terms (each a
 Renewal Term ) unless either Parent or Employee hereto gives the other party hereto written
notice of its or her intent not to renew this Agreement no later than one hundred eighty (180)
days prior to the date the Initial Term, or the then-current Renewal Term, is scheduled to expire.
Employee s Employment shall terminate upon termination or expiration of this Agreement.

7. Termination Payments. 

(a)
Upon termination of Employee s Employment, for whatever reason
( other   than  termination for  Cause  pursuant to Section 6(b), termination by Employee pursuant to Section
6(f), expiration of this Agreement following notice of non-renewal by Employee pursuant to Section
6(h), or termination because Employee otherwise  quits  or voluntarily terminates her employment
other than pursuant to Section 6(e) (each, a  Termination Exclusion )) (the effective date of such
termination or expiration being referred to as the  Termination Date ), in addition to any amounts
payable to Employee hereunder (including but not limited to accrued but unpaid Base Salary), and
any other benefits required to be provided to Employee and her dependents under contract and
applicable law:

(i) Parent shall pay Employee in cash an amount equal to her  Annual Base
Compensation  (as defined in Section 7(f)) multiplied by two (2) (the  Severance
Payment ). The Severance Payment shall be paid in twenty-four (24) equal monthly
installments, the .first of which shall be made on the first day of the calendar month
following the calendar month in which the Termination Date occurs; provided, however,
that:

(A) if Employee s Employment is terminated (other than by reason of a
Termination Exclusion) within two (2) years after a Change in Control as defined
in Section 7(f)(i)(A), (B) or (C), Parent shall pay Employee the Severance Payment
in one lump sum within thirty (30) days of the Termination Date.

5 

(B) if, within the two-year period immediately following a Change in
Control as defined in Section 7(f)(i)(D), Employee s Employment is terminated
by Employee pursuant to Section 6(f), because Employee  quits  or voluntarily
terminates her employment or this Agreement expires following notice of non-
renewal by Employee pursuant to Section 6(h), such a termination shall not be
deemed to be a Termination Exclusion for purposes of this Section 7.
Accordingly, Parent shall pay Employee an amount equal to her Annual Base
Compensation multiplied by two (2), and Parent shall pay Employee this
Severance Payment in one lump sum within thirty (30) days of the Termination
Date; provided, however, in such a case, (i) Employee will not be paid any
Supplemental Payment and (ii) Employee will not be entitled to her Bonus
Compensation if such a terminating event occurs prior to the date when any
accrued Bonus Compensation would be paid to Employee (even if she was
employed for the entire calendar year upon which such Bonus Compensation
would be calculated).

(C) in the event Employee is terminated for Cause pursuant to the
terms of Section 6(b), such event shall be governed by Section 7(b) hereof even
if such Termination Date is within two (2) years after a Change in Control.

(ii) Parent shall pay Employee an amount (the  Supplemental Payment ) equal to (x) the amount
of Bonus Compensation payable to Employee for the calendar year immediately preceding the year in
which the Termination Date occurs (the  Prior Bonus Amount ) multiplied by (y) a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of days beginning on January 1 st  of the calendar year
in which the Termination Date occurs and ending on the Termination Date, and the denominator of
which is 365. The Supplemental Payment shall be paid to Employee concurrently with the payment of
the Prior Bonus Amount; provided, however, that if the Prior Bonus
Amount has already been paid to
Employee, the Supplemental Payment shall be paid within 30 days of the Termination Date. In the
event the Termination Date occurs in the first calendar year of Employee s employment, then the
Supplemental Payment shall equal the pro rata percentage (determined using the fraction above) of
the Bonus Compensation Employee would have received for the calendar year in which the Termination
Date occurred had Employee remained employed for the entire calendar year in which the Termination
Date occurred, and the Supplemental Payment shall be paid to Employee concurrently with Parent s
payment of Bonus Compensation generally for such calendar year.

(iii) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any nonqualified deferred compensation
plan of Parent or NOVA (the  Nonqualified Plan ), Employee shall become fully vested immediately
in all of her Nonqualified Plan benefits and accounts as of the Termination Date.

(iv) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other agreement or document
(including but not limited to Parent s applicable plan documents), all stock options, restricted
stock and other similar rights that, as of the Termination Date, have been granted to Employee
shall become vested and exercisable immediately upon notice of such termination and, as provided
under the applicable plan or agreement, Employee shall have the right to exercise any or all of
such rights. Further, in the event Employee s Employment is terminated for whatever reason (other
than termination for  Cause  pursuant to Section 6(b)) within two (2) years after a Change in
Control as-defined in Section 7(f)(i)(D), Employee shall have the continuing right to exercise the
 Qualified

6 

Options  (as defined in Section 7(f)(iv)), at any time prior to the date which is one (1)
year after the Termination Date (without regard to any provision thereof requiring earlier
expiration upon termination of employment).

(v) Until the earlier to occur of (x) the expiration of the Severance Period or (y)
Employee becomes an employee of another company providing Employee and her dependents with
medical, life and disability insurance (the period from the Termination Date until such
event being referred to herein as the  Continuation Period ), Parent shall provide to
Employee and her dependents the coverage for the benefits described in Sections 3(a), (b)
and (c); provided, however, such coverage shall not be provided to the extent that such
coverage is generally provided through an insurance contract with a licensed insurance
company and such insurance company will not agree to insure for such coverage.

During the two (2) year period following the Termination Date (the  Severance Period ), Employee
shall comply with the non-disclosure obligations and covenants not to solicit or compete set forth
in Sections 10 and 11 below.

Except as provided in Section 7(a)(i)(B), for purposes of this Section 7(a), any accrued but
unpaid Bonus Compensation shall be paid to Employee on the date that Bonus Compensation would have
been payable under the Incentive Compensation Plan had termination of Employee s Employment not
occurred.

(b) In the event Employee s Employment is terminated as a result of the Termination
Exclusions identified in Section 7(a), Employee shall be paid her accrued but unpaid Base
Salary
through the Termination Date, and any other benefits required to be provided to Employee and
her dependents under contract and applicable law. Employee will not be entitled to her Bonus
Compensation if Employee s Employment is terminated as a result of one of the Termination
Exclusions prior to the date when any earned Bonus Compensation would be paid to Employee.
In such a case, Employee shall not be entitled to any portion of her Bonus Compensation upon
such termination of employment even if she was employed for the entire calendar year upon
which such Bonus Compensation would be calculated.

(c) In the event Employee s Employment is terminated as a result of one of the
Termination Exclusions identified in Section 7(a), Parent, at its sole option and its sole
discretion
and at any time within thirty (30) days of the Termination Date, may cause Employee to be
obligated to comply with the non-disclosure obligations and covenants not to solicit or
compete
set forth in Sections 10 and 11 below for a period of one
(1) or two (2) years following the Termination Date, as set forth below:

(i) By giving notice to Employee at any time within thirty (30) days of the
Termination Date of its intent to exercise the  One Year Option  herein described, Parent
may cause Employee to be obligated to comply with the non-disclosure obligations and
covenants not to solicit or compete set forth in Sections 10 and 11 below for a period of
one (1) year following the Termination Date; provided, however, that Parent shall pay
Employee an aggregate amount in cash equal to Employee s then Base Salary in effect
immediately prior to the Termination Date multiplied by one (1) (the  One Year Payment ).
The One Year Payment shall be paid by Parent to Employee in twelve (12) equal monthly
payments, the first of which shall be made on the first day of the calendar month
following the calendar month in which the Termination Date occurs. In the event

7 

Parent exercises the One Year Option, the one (1) year period following the Termination
Date shall be deemed the  Exclusion Period 

(ii) By giving notice to Employee any time within thirty (30) days of the Termination
Date of its intent to exercise the  Two Year Option  herein described, Parent may cause
Employee to be obligated to comply with the non-disclosure obligations and covenants not to
solicit or compete set forth in Sections 10 and 11 below for a period of two (2) years
following the Termination Date; provided, however, that Parent shall pay Employee an
aggregate amount in cash equal to Employee s Base Salary in effect immediately prior to the
Termination Date multiplied by two (2) (the  Two Year Payment ). The Two Year Payment shall
be paid by Parent to Employee in twenty-four (24) equal monthly payments, the first of
which shall be made on the first day of the calendar month following the calendar month in
which the Termination Date occurs. In the event Parent exercises the Two Year Option, the
two (2) year period following the Termination Date shall be deemed the  Exclusion Period .

Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event Employee s employment is terminated within two (2)
years after the Effective Date as a result of one of the Termination Exclusions identified in
Section 7(a), the provisions of Section 10 and 11 below will apply until the second anniversary of
the Effective Date without any payment by Parent. If Parent, upon Employee s termination, elects a
One Year Option or Two Year Option, Parent shall not be obligated to make any payments with
respect to such One Year Option or Two Year Option covering the portion of the applicable period
occurring prior to the second anniversary of the Effective Date and any such payments which would
have otherwise been made to Employee pursuant to this Section 7(c) prior to the second anniversary
of the Effective Date shall be waived.

(d) In the event of the death of Employee, all benefits and compensation hereunder
shall, unless otherwise specified by Employee, be payable to, or
exercisable by, Employee s estate.

(e) Gross-Up Payment.

(i) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event it shall
be determined that any payment, grant, acceleration or distribution by or on behalf of
Parent to or for the benefit of Employee as a result of any change in control (within the
meaning of Section 280 G of the internal revenue code) or as otherwise payable under
Sections 3(h), 7(a) or 16 (whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable
pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise, but determined without regard to any
additional payments required under this Section 7(e) (a  Payment )) would be subject to
the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the  Code ), or any interest or penalties are incurred by Employee with respect to such
excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are
hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Excise Tax ), then Employee shall be entitled
to receive an additional payment (a  Gross-Up Payment ) in an amount such that, after
payment by Employee of all taxes upon the Gross-Up Payment (such taxes including, without
limitation, any income taxes and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, and any
interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), Employee retains an amount of
the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payment.

8 

(ii) Subject to the provisions of Section 7(e)(iii), all determinations required to be made
under this Section 7, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of
such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall
be made by a nationally recognized accounting firm or law firm selected by Employee and reasonably
acceptable to Parent (the  Tax Firm   provided,   however,  that the Tax Firm shall not
determine that no Excise Tax is payable by Employee unless it delivers to Employee a written
opinion (the  Accounting Opinion ) that failure to pay the Excise Tax and to report the Excise Tax
and the payments potentially subject thereto on or with Employee s applicable federal income tax
return will not result in the imposition of an accuracy-related or other penalty on Employee. All
fees and expenses of the Tax Firm shall be borne solely by Parent. Within fifteen (15) business
days of the receipt of notice from Employee that there has been a Payment, the Tax Firm shall make
all determinations required under this Section 7, shall provide to Parent and Employee a written
report setting forth such determinations, together with detailed supporting calculations, and, if
the Tax Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable, shall deliver the Accounting Opinion to
Employee. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant to this Section 7, shall be paid by Parent
to Employee within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of the Tax Firm s determination. Subject to the
remainder of this Section, any determination by the Tax Firm shall be binding upon Parent and
Employee; provided, however, that Employee shall only be bound to the extent that the
determinations of the Tax Firm hereunder, including the determinations made in the Accounting
Opinion, are reasonable and reasonably supported by applicable law. As a result of the uncertainty
in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Tax
Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments which will not have been made by Parent
should have been made ( Underpayment ), consistent with the calculations required to be made
hereunder. In the event that it is ultimately determined in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Section 7(e)(iii) that Employee is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Tax
Firm shall reasonably determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such
Underpayment shall be promptly paid by Parent to or for the benefit of Employee. In determining the
reasonableness of Tax Firm s determinations hereunder, and the effect thereof, Parent and Employee
shall be provided a reasonable opportunity to review such determinations with Tax Firm and their
respective tax counsel, if separate from the Tax Firm. Tax Firm s determinations hereunder, and the
Accounting Opinion, shall not be deemed reasonable until Employee s reasonable objections and
comments thereto have been satisfactorily accommodated by Tax Firm.

(iii) Employee shall notify Parent in writing of any claims by the Internal Revenue Service
that, if successful, would require the payment by Parent of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification
shall be given as soon as practicable, but no later than thirty (30) calendar days after Employee
actually receives notice in writing of such claim, and shall apprise Parent of the nature of such
claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid;
 provided,   however,  that the
failure of Employee to notify Parent of such claim (or to provide any required information with
respect thereto) shall not affect any rights granted to Employee under this Section except to the
extent that Parent is materially prejudiced in the defense of such claim as a direct result of such
failure. Employee shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the thirty (30) day period
following the date on which she gives such notice to Parent (or such shorter period ending on the
date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If Parent

9 

notifies Employee in writing prior to the expiration of such period that it desires to contest such
claim, Employee shall do all of the following:

(A)
give Parent any information reasonably requested by Parent relating to such claim;

(B) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as
Parent shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without
limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an
attorney selected by Parent and reasonably acceptable to Employee;

(C)
cooperate with Parent in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim;

(D) if Parent elects not to assume and control the defense of such
claim, permit Parent to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim;
provided, however, that Parent shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses
(including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such
contest and shall indemnify and hold Employee harmless, on an after-tax basis,
for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest and penalties with respect
thereto) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and
expenses. Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this Section 7, Parent
shall have the right, at its sole option, to assume the defense of and control all
proceedings in connection with such contest, in which case it may pursue or
forego any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences
with the taxing authority in respect of such claim and may either direct Employee
to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any
permissible manner, and Employee agrees to prosecute such contest to a
determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction
and in one or more appellate courts, as Parent shall determine;  provided, 
 however,  that if Parent directs Employee to pay such claim and sue for a
refund,
Parent shall advance the amount of such payment to Employee, on an interest-
free basis and shall indemnify and hold Employee harmless, on an after-tax basis,
from any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties with respect
thereto) imposed with respect to such advance or with respect to any imputed
income with respect to such advance; and further provided that any extension of
the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of
Employee with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is
limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, Parent s right to assume
the defense of and control the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to
which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and Employee shall be
entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the
Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.

(iv) If, after the receipt by Employee of an amount advanced by Parent pursuant to this
Section 7(e), Employee becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to such claim, Employee
shall (subject to Parent s complying with the requirements of Section 7(e)(iii)) promptly pay to
Parent the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes
applicable thereto). If, after the receipt by Employee of an amount advanced by Parent pursuant to
Section 7(e)(iii), a determination is made that Employee is not entitled to a refund with

10 

respect to such claim and Parent does not notify Employee in writing of its intent to contest such
denial of refund prior to the expiration of thirty (30) days after such determination, then such
advance shall, to the extent of such denial, be forgiven and shall not be required to be repaid
and the amount of forgiven advance shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up
Payment required to be paid.

(f) For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall be defined as follows:

(i)  Change in Control  shall mean :

(A) The acquisition (other than from Parent) by any person, entity or
 group , within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) (excluding, for this purpose, any
employee benefit plan of Parent or its subsidiaries which acquires beneficial
ownership of voting securities of Parent) of beneficial ownership (within the
meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 25% or more of
either the then outstanding shares of Parent s stock or the combined voting
power of Parent s then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in
the election of directors; or

(B) The consummation by Parent of a reorganization, merger,
consolidation, in each case, with respect to which the shares of Parent voting
stock outstanding immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or
consolidation do not constitute or become exchanged for or converted into more
than 50% of the combined voting power entitled to vote generally in the election
of directors of the reorganized, merged or consolidated company s then
outstanding voting securities, or a liquidation or dissolution of Parent or of the
sale of all or substantially all of the assets of Parent; or

(C) The failure for any reason of individuals who constitute the
Incumbent Board to continue to constitute at least a majority of the board of
directors of Parent; or

(D) The sale, assignment or transfer of the Business to an
unaffiliated third party, whether by sale of all or substantially all the assets of
the
Business, sale of stock or merger.

(ii)  Annual Base Compensation  means the greater of (x) Employee s Base Salary in effect on
the Termination Date, or (y) the greatest Base Salary in effect during the calendar year
immediately prior to the calendar year in which the Termination Date occurs.

(iii)  Incumbent
Board  shall mean the members of the Board of Directors of Parent as of the
Effective Date hereof and any person becoming a member of the Board of Directors of Parent
hereafter whose election, or nomination for election by Parent s shareholders, was approved by a
vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an
election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with
an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the directors of Parent, as
such terms are used in Rule 14a-l 1 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act).

11 

(iv)  Qualified Options  shall mean all stock options, restricted stock, and
other similar rights (a) granted to Employee prior to February 22, 2001 (whether
vested or unvested), that entitle Employee to acquire NOVA Corp stock for a price
per share equal to or greater than $17.92 (such options being converted by virtue of
the Merger into the right to acquire stock of Parent); or (b) granted to Employee on
or after February 22, 2001.

8.  Products, Notes, Records and Software.  Employee acknowledges and agrees that all
memoranda, notes, records and other documents and computer software created, developed,
compiled, or
used by Employee or made available to her during the term of her Employment concerning or
relative to
the business and affairs of NOVA or Parent, including, without limitation, all customer data,
billing
information, service data, and other technical material of NOVA or Parent is and shall be
NOVA s or
Parent s, as the case may be, property. Employee agrees to deliver without demand all such
materials to
Parent within three (3) days after the termination of Employee s Employment. Employee further
agrees
not to use such materials for any reason after said termination.

9.  Arbitration. 

(a) Parent and Employee acknowledge and agree that (except as specifically set forth
in Section 9(d)) any claim or controversy arising out of or relating to this Agreement
shall be
settled by binding arbitration in Atlanta, Georgia, in accordance with the National
Rules of the
American Arbitration Association for the Resolution of Employment Disputes in effect on
the
date of the event giving rise to the claim or controversy. Parent and Employee
further
acknowledge and agree that either party must request arbitration of any claim or
controversy
within one (1) year of the date of the event giving rise to the claim or controversy by
giving
written notice of the party s request for arbitration. Failure to give notice of any
claim or
controversy within one (1) year of the event giving rise to the claim or controversy
shall
constitute waiver of the claim or controversy.

(b) All claims or controversies subject to arbitration pursuant to Section 9(a) above
shall be submitted to arbitration within six (6) months from the date that a written
notice of
request for arbitration is effective. All claims or controversies shall be resolved by
a panel of
three arbitrators who are licensed to practice law in the State of Georgia and who are
experienced
in the arbitration of labor and employment disputes. These arbitrators shall be
selected in
accordance with the National Rules of the American Arbitration Association for the
Resolution of
Employment Disputes in effect at the time the claim or controversy arises. Either
party may
request that the arbitration proceeding be stenographically recorded by a Certified
Shorthand
Reporter. The arbitrators shall issue a written decision with respect to all claims or
controversies
within thirty (30) days from the date the claims or controversies are submitted to
arbitration. The
parties shall be entitled to be represented by legal counsel at any arbitration
proceedings.

(c) Parent
and Employee acknowledge and agree that the arbitration provisions in
this Agreement may be specifically enforced by either party, and that submission to
arbitration
proceedings may be compelled by any court of competent jurisdiction. Parent and
Employee
further acknowledge and agree that the decision of the arbitrators may be specifically
enforced by
either party in any court of competent jurisdiction.

(d)
Notwithstanding the arbitration provisions set forth herein, Employee and Parent acknowledge and agree
that nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require the
arbitration of any claim or controversy arising under Sections 10 and 11 of this
Agreement nor
shall such provisions prevent Parent from seeking equitable relief from a court of
competent

12 

jurisdiction for violations of Sections 10 and 11 of this Agreement. These provisions shall
be enforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction and shall not be subject to
arbitration except by mutual written consent of the parties signed after the dispute
arises, any such consent, and the terms and conditions thereof, then becoming binding on
the parties. Employee and Parent further acknowledge and agree that nothing in this
Agreement shall be construed to require arbitration of any claim for workers  compensation
or unemployment compensation.

10.  Nondisclosure. 

(a)  Confidential Information.  Employee acknowledges and agrees that because
of
her Employment, she will have access to proprietary information of NOVA and Parent
concerning or relative to the business of NOVA and Parent which is of a special and
unique value
(collectively,  Confidential Information ) which includes, without limitation,
technical material
of NOVA and Parent, sales and marketing information, customer account records, billing
information, training and operations information, materials and memoranda, personnel
records,
pricing and financial information relating to the business, accounts, customers,
prospective
customers, employees and affairs of NOVA and Parent, and any information
marked
 Confidential  by NOVA or Parent. Employee acknowledges and agrees that Confidential
Information is and shall be NOVA s or Parent s property, as the case may be, prior to
and after the
Merger. Employee recognizes and acknowledges that this Agreement furthers Parent s
interest in
connection with entering into the Merger Agreement and the consummation of the
transactions
contemplated thereby. Employee agrees that except as required by Employee s duties
with
NOVA or, following the Merger, Parent, Employee shall keep NOVA s or Parent s
Confidential
Information confidential, and Employee shall not use Confidential Information for any
reason
other than on behalf of NOVA and Parent pursuant to, and in strict compliance with, the
terms of
this Agreement. Employee further agrees that during the Severance Period or the
Exclusion
Period, as applicable, Employee shall continue to keep Confidential Information
confidential, and
Employee shall not use Confidential Information for any reason or in any manner.

(b)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Employee shall not be subject to the restrictions set forth in
subsection (a) of this Section 10 with respect to information which:

(i) becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of
disclosure by Employee or the breach of Employee s obligations under this
Agreement;

(ii) becomes available to Employee from a source which is unrelated to her
Employment or the exercise of her duties under this Agreement, provided that such
source lawfully obtained such information and is not bound by a confidentiality
agreement with Parent or NOVA; or

(iii) is required by law to be disclosed.

(c)  Trade Secrets.  Employee acknowledges and agrees that because of her
Employment, she will have access to  trade secrets  (as defined in the Uniform Trade
Secrets
Act, O.C.G.A.   10-1-760,  et   seq . (the  Uniform Trade Secrets Act ) of NOVA ( Trade
Secrets ).
Nothing in this Agreement is intended to alter the applicable law and remedies with
respect to
information meeting the definition of  trade secrets  under the Uniform Trade Secrets
Act, which
law and remedies shall be in addition to the obligations and rights of the parties
hereunder.

11.  Covenants
Not to Solicit or Compete.  Employee acknowledges and agrees that,
because of her Employment and the anticipated Merger, she does and will continue to have
access to

13 

confidential or proprietary information concerning merchants, associate banks and ISOs of Parent
and shall have established relationships with such merchants, associate banks and ISOs as well as
with the vendors, consultants, and suppliers used to service such merchants, associate banks and
ISOs. As an inducement to Parent to enter into, complete and close the Merger and in consideration
for Parent s agreement to employ Employee with the compensation and benefits described herein,
Employee agrees that from and after the Effective Date, and continuing throughout the Severance
Period or the Exclusion Period, as applicable, Employee shall not, directly or indirectly, either
individually, in partnership, jointly, or in conjunction with, or on behalf of, any person, firm,
partnership, corporation, or unincorporated association or entity of any kind:

(a) compete with Parent in providing credit card and debit card transaction
processing services within the Territory or otherwise associate with, obtain any
interest in (except
as a shareholder holding less than five percent (5%) interest in a corporation traded
on a national
exchange or over-the-counter), advise, consult, lend money to, guarantee the debts or
obligations
of, or perform services in either a supervisory or managerial capacity or as an
advisor, consultant
or independent contractor for, or otherwise participate in the ownership, management,
or control
of, any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or unincorporated association of any
kind which is
providing credit card and debit card transaction processing services within the
Territory;

(b) solicit or contact, for the purpose of providing products or services the same as
or
substantially similar to those provided by the Business (or any other business of
Parent in which
Employee was engaged), any person or entity that during the term of Employee s
Employment
was a merchant, associate bank, ISO or customer (including any actively-sought
prospective
merchant, associate bank, ISO or customer) with whom Employee had material contact or
about
whom Employee learned material information during the last twelve
(12) months of her Employment;

(c) persuade or attempt to persuade any merchant, associate bank, ISO, customer, or
supplier of Parent to terminate or modify such merchant s, associate bank s, ISO s,
customer s, or
supplier s relationship with Parent if Employee had material contact with or learned
material
information about such merchant, associate bank, ISO, customer or supplier during the
last twelve
(12) months of her 
Employment; or

(d) persuade or attempt to persuade any person who was employed by Parent or any
of its subsidiaries as of the date of the termination of Employee s Employment, to
terminate or
modify her employment relationship, whether or not pursuant to a written agreement,
with Parent
or any of its subsidiaries, as the case may be.

12.  New Developments.  Any discovery, invention, process or improvement made or
discovered by Employee during the term of her Employment in connection with or in any way
affecting
or relating to the business of Parent (as then carried on or under active consideration) shall
forthwith be
disclosed to Parent and shall belong to and be the absolute property of Parent; provided,
however, that
this provision does not apply to_an invention for which no equipment, supplies, facility,
trade secret
information of Parent was used and which was developed entirely on Employee s own time, unless
(a) the
invention relates (i) directly to the Business or (ii) to Parent s actual or demonstrably
anticipated research
or development; or (b) the invention results from any work performed by Employee for Parent.

13.  Remedy for Breach.  Employee acknowledges and agrees that her breach of any of the
covenants contained in Sections 8, 10, 11 and 12 of this Agreement would cause irreparable
injury to
Parent and that remedies at law of Parent for any actual or threatened breach by Employee of
such
covenants would be inadequate and that Parent shall be entitled to specific performance of the
covenants

14 

in such sections or injunctive relief against activities in violation of such sections, or both, by
temporary or permanent injunction or other appropriate judicial remedy, writ or order, without the
necessity of proving actual damages. This provision with respect to injunctive relief shall not
diminish the right of Parent to claim and recover damages against Employee for any breach of this
Agreement in addition to injunctive relief. Employee acknowledges and agrees that the covenants
contained in Sections 8, 10, 11 and 12 of this Agreement shall be construed as agreements
independent of any other provision of this or any other contract between the parties hereto, and
that the existence of any claim or cause of action by Employee against Parent, whether predicated
upon this or any other contract, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by Parent of
said covenants.

14.  Reasonableness.  Employee has carefully considered the nature and extent of the
restrictions upon her and the rights and remedies conferred on Parent under this Agreement,
and Employee hereby acknowledges and agrees that:

(a) the restrictions and covenants contained herein, and the rights and remedies
conferred upon Parent, are necessary to protect the goodwill and other value of the
Business;

(b) the restrictions placed upon Employee hereunder are narrowly drawn, are fair and
reasonable in time and territory, will not prevent her from earning a livelihood, and
place no
greater restraint upon Employee than is reasonably necessary to secure the Business and
goodwill
of Parent;

(c)
Parent is relying upon the restrictions and covenants contained herein in continuing to make
available to Employee information concerning the Business; and

(d) Employee s Employment places her in a position of confidence and trust with
Parent and its employees, merchants, associate banks, ISOs, customers, vendors and
suppliers.

15.  Invalidity of Any Provision.  It is the intention of the parties hereto that the provisions
of this Agreement shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible under the laws and
public policies of
each state and jurisdiction in which such enforcement is sought, but that the unenforceability
(or the
modification to conform with such laws or public policies) of any provision hereof shall not
render
unenforceable or impair the remainder of this Agreement which shall be deemed amended to
delete or
modify, as necessary, the invalid or unenforceable provisions. The parties further agree to
alter the
balance of this Agreement in order to render the same valid and enforceable. The terms of
the non-competition provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed modified to the extent necessary to
be
enforceable and, specifically, without limiting the foregoing, if the term of the
non-competition is too
long to be enforceable, it shall be modified to encompass the longest term which is
enforceable and, if the
scope of the geographic area of non-competition is too great to be enforceable, it shall be
modified to
encompass the greatest area that is enforceable. The parties further agree to submit any
issues regarding
such modification to a court of competent jurisdiction if they are unable to agree and further
agree that if
said court declines to so amend or modify this Agreement, the parties will submit the issue of
amendment
or modification of the non-competition covenants in this Agreement to binding arbitration in
accordance
with the commercial arbitration rules then in effect of the American Arbitration Association.
Any such
arbitration hearing will be held in Atlanta, Georgia, and this Agreement shall be construed
and enforced
in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia, including this arbitration provision.

16.  Settlement Payments; Termination of Merger Agreement. 

(a) In consideration for Employee s agreement to terminate the Prior Agreement
and waive the right to receive cash payments or other benefits under the Prior Agreement
upon

15 

termination of employment following a change in control by reason of consummation of the Merger,
Parent shall provide on the Effective Date the compensation described in this Section 16 (provided
this Agreement is not terminated prior to the Effective Date), and Employee shall have no other
right to receive payments or other benefits under this Agreement or the Prior Agreement by reason
of the Merger:

(i) Parent shall pay Employee in cash an amount equal to her annual base salary as of
the date of this Agreement multiplied by three (3) (the  Cash Settlement Payment ). The
Cash Settlement Payment shall be paid in two (2) equal installments, the first of which
shall be made on the Effective Date, the second of which shall be paid on the first
anniversary of the Effective Date; provided, however, that if Employee s Employment is
terminated, for whatever reason, prior to the first anniversary of the Effective Date,
Parent shall pay Employee an amount equal to her annual base salary as of the date of this
Agreement multiplied by one-half (1/2) in lieu of the second installment of the Cash
Settlement Payment. In the event the second installment of the Cash Settlement Payment is
made on the first anniversary date of the Effective Date and Employee s employment is
terminated pursuant to a Termination Exclusion prior to the second anniversary of the
Effective Date, then Employee shall reimburse Parent an amount equal to the  Unearned
Payment  (as defined below). The number of days Employee is employed, following the first
anniversary of the Effective Date and prior to the second anniversary of the Effective
Date, shall be referred to as the  Accrued Days  and the ratio of (A) 365 minus the Accrued
Days to (B) 365 shall be referred to as the  Unearned Ratio . The  Unearned Payment  shall
equal Employee s annual base salary as of the date of this Agreement multiplied by the
Unearned Ratio.

(ii) The provisions of Section 7(e) of this Agreement shall be applicable to the
payments provided for in this Section 16. All payments under Section 16 are in addition
to, and not in lieu of, any payment due under this Agreement following termination of
Employee s employment.

(iii) At the election of Employee, with respect to up to 75% of the aggregate number
of shares subject to stock option agreements outstanding as of the Effective Date ( Option
Shares ), Employee shall be entitled to receive from Parent in exchange for cancellation
of the stock option agreements (or portion thereof) relating to such Option Shares for
which Employee elects, a cash payment in an amount equal to (1) the Cash Consideration (as
defined in the Merger Agreement) multiplied by the aggregate number of Option Shares
subject to the option agreements (or portion thereof) to be cancelled less (2) the
aggregate exercise price set forth in the stock option agreements (or portion thereof)
being cancelled. Employee shall notify Parent no later than three (3) business days prior
to the Effective Date with respect to the number of Option Shares subject to the stock
option agreements Employee wishes to make the election pursuant to this Section
16(a)(iii). In exchange for such cash payments, Employee agrees to execute a cancellation
agreement with respect to the Option Shares subject to the stock option agreements (or
portion thereof) being cancelled, which cancellation agreement stall be in a form
reasonably acceptable to Parent. The remaining Option Shares subject to stock option
agreements (or portions thereof) not being cancelled hereunder shall be converted into the
right to acquire shares of Parent s common stock in accordance with Section 3.06 of the
Merger Agreement and in the event Employee s Employment is terminated for whatever reason
(other than termination for  Cause  pursuant to Section 6(b)) within two (2) years after
the Effective Date, Employee shall have the continuing right to exercise such remaining
Option Shares at any time prior to the date which is one (1) year after the

16 

Termination Date (without regard to any provisions thereof requiring earlier
expiration upon termination of employment).

(b) Employee acknowledges and agrees that upon the Effective Date, the Prior Agreement
is terminated, cancelled and of no further force and effect; provided, however, that this
Agreement shall terminate upon any termination of the Merger Agreement (and, in case of any
such termination hereof, this Agreement shall be deemed to be void  ab initio  and the Prior
Agreement shall be deemed to have remained in full force and effect); provided further, that
the termination of this Agreement shall only become effective if the Merger Agreement
terminates prior to the Effective Date. Until the Effective Date, the Prior Agreement
remains in full force and effect.

17.  Applicable
Law.  This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia.

18.  Waiver of Breach.  The waiver by Parent of a breach of any provision of this Agreement
by Employee shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by
Employee.

19.  Successors and Assigns.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of Parent, its
subsidiaries and affiliates, and their respective successors and assigns. This Agreement is
not assignable
by Employee but shall be freely assignable by Parent.

20.  Notices.  All notices, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing
and shall be delivered in person or deposited in the United States mail, certified or
registered, with return receipt requested, as follows:

(i) 
       
     If to Employee, to: 

Pamela A. Joseph 
580 Owens Farm Road 

Alpharetta, Georgia 30004 

(ii)

If to NOVA Corp or NOVA, to: 

NOVA Corporation 

One Concourse Parkway 

Suite 300 

Atlanta, Georgia 30328 

Attention: Edward Grzedzinski 

Chief Executive Officer 

(iii)

If to Parent, to: 

U.S. Bancorp 

U.S. Bank Place 

601 Second Avenue South 

Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402 

Attention: General Counsel 

17 

21.  Entire Agreement.  This Agreement contains the entire agreement of the parties, and as
of the Effective Date, supersedes all other prior negotiations, commitments,
agreements and
understandings (written or oral) between the parties with respect to the subject matter
hereof, including
but not limited to the Prior Agreement, which is hereby terminated as of the Effective Date.
It may not be
changed orally but only by an agreement in writing signed by the party against whom
enforcement of any
waiver, change, modification, extension, or discharge is sought.

22.  Indemnification; Legal Expenses. 

(a) At all times during and after Employee s Employment and the effectiveness of
this Agreement, Parent shall indemnify Employee (as a director, officer, employee and
otherwise)
to the fullest extent permitted by law and shall at all times maintain appropriate
provisions in its
Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws which mandate that Parent provide such
indemnification.

(b) Parent s obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and
otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any set-off,
counter-claim,
recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which Parent may have against
Employee or
others. In no event shall Employee be obligated to seek other employment or take any
other
action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to Employee under any of the
provisions of
this Agreement. Parent agrees to pay, to the full extent permitted by law, all legal
fees and
expenses which Employee may reasonably incur as a result of any legitimate,
non-frivolous
contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by Parent or others of the validity or
enforceability of,
or liability under, any provision of this Agreement or any guarantee of performance
thereof
(including as a result of any legitimate, non-frivolous contest by Employee about the
amount of
any payment pursuant to Section 7 or Section 16 of this Agreement), plus in each case
interest at
the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2) of the Code. Parent
will not be
bound to pay any legal fees or expenses arising out of baseless, meritless or frivolous
contests
brought hereunder by Employee or others. A contest will be deemed baseless, meritless
and/or
frivolous if a court or other arbiter assesses penalties or sanctions for bringing said
contest, or a
court or other arbiter dismisses said contest for failure to state a colorable claim.

(c)
As a condition to receiving payments under Section 7(a), Employee must execute a release in the
form attached hereto as Exhibit B.

23.  Survival.  The provisions of Sections 7, 8, 9, 10,11, 12, 13, 14,15, 16, 17, 20, 22, 23 and
24 shall survive termination of Employee s Employment and termination of this Agreement.

24.  Withholding.  All payments required to be made by Parent under this Agreement will be
subject to the withholding of such amounts, if any, relating to federal, state and local taxes
as may be
required by law. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to reduce Employee s right to
payments
described in Section 7(e).

18 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties hereto have executed this Agreement under seal as of the date
first above shown.

EMPLOYEE :  

By:   
     /s/ Pamela A. Joseph

Pamela A. Joseph  

NOVA :   

NOVA 
  Corporation     

By:   
     /s/ Edward Grzedzinski

Edward Grzedzinski  

Chairman, CEO and President  

NOVA 
  Information Systems, Inc.     

By:   
     /s/ Edward Grzedzinski  

Edward Grzedzinski  

Chairman, CEO and President  

PARENT:  

U.S.    Bancorp   

By:   

 /s/ Lee R. Mitau  

Name:   
     Lee R. Mitau  

Title:   
     Executive Vice
President and General Counsel 

19 

EXHIBIT A   

Annual Incentive Compensation Schedule 

* 
       
     Payment of annual incentive compensation (the  Bonus Payment ) to be based upon relative
achievement of Targeted Net Income (as defined). 

* 
       
     Net Income is Net Income determined in accordance with GAAP as determined from the annual
audited Financial Statements, as adjusted to exclude non-operating gains and losses. 

* 
       
     Targeted Net Income will be established annually by the Chief Executive Officer of NOVA, as
approved by the Chief Executive Officer of Parent. 

* 
       
     The Bonus Payment will be calculated by following the steps outlined below: 

(1) 
       
     Determining the percentage equivalent to a fraction, the
numerator of which is Net Income and the denominator of which is Targeted Net Income (such
percentage being referred to as the  Actual/Targeted Ratio ). 

(2) 
       
     Values will be calculated based on (A) through (E): 

(A) 
       
     For  each  full percentage point (up to 84%) by which the
Actual/Targeted Ratio
equals or exceeds 80%, a value of 1% will be awarded. 

(B) 
       
     For  each  full percentage point (up to 89%) by which the
Actual/Targeted Ratio
exceeds 84%, a value of 2% will be awarded. 

(C) 
       
     For  each  full percentage point (up to 94%) by which the
Actual/Targeted Ratio
exceeds 89%, a value of 3% will be awarded. 

(D) 
       
     For  each  full percentage point (up to 99%) by which the
Actual/Targeted Ratio
exceeds 94%, a value of 4% will be awarded. 

(E) 
       
     For  each  full percentage point (up to 150%) by which
the Actual/Targeted Ratio
exceeds 100%, a value of 1% will be awarded, ( note : for this purpose, no
value
will be awarded for equaling 100%). 

(3) 
       
     The sum of the values calculated in (A) through (E) (the  Bonus Percentage )
shall be
multiplied by Employee s then current Base Salary to yield the Bonus Payment. 

Examples: 

If the Actual/Targeted Ratio is 92%, the Bonus Percentage would
be 29%. This is calculated by adding: 

20 

Employee s Bonus Payment would be equal to Employee s then-current Base Salary
multiplied by 29%. 

If the Actual/Targeted Ratio is 112%, the Bonus Percentage
would be 62%. This is calculated by adding: 

Employee s Bonus Payment would be equal to Employee s then-current Base Salary
multiplied by 62%. 

* 
       
     The foregoing notwithstanding, in order for any bonus to be payable with respect to any
calendar
year, the  Revenue  (as defined below) for such calendar year must equal or exceed 105% of
the
Revenue for the immediately preceding calendar year.  Revenue  means revenue of NOVA
determined in accordance with GAAP as determined from the annual audited Financial
Statements, as adjusted to exclude non-operating items. 

* 
       
     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, in order to receive Bonus
Compensation for any calendar year, Employee must be employed by NOVA on the last day of
such calendar year. 

21 

</EX-10.37>

<EX-12>
 3
 c22668exv12.htm
 STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

exv12 

EXHIBIT 12 

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 4
 c22668exv13.htm
 2007 ANNUAL REPORT

exv13 

Management s Discussion and Analysis

OVERVIEW

In 2007, U.S. Bancorp and its subsidiaries (the
     Company ) continued to demonstrate its financial
    strength and shareholder focus, despite a particularly
    challenging economic environment for the banking industry.
    Throughout 2007, the mortgage lending and homebuilding
    industries experienced stress resulting in higher delinquencies,
    net charge-offs and nonperforming loans for the industry,
    especially within the sub-prime mortgage sector. The financial
    markets experienced significant turbulence during the second
    half of 2007 as the impact of sub-prime mortgage delinquencies,
    defaults and foreclosures adversely affected investor confidence
    in a broad range of investment sectors and asset classes.
    Despite these challenges, the Company s prudent credit
    culture, balance sheet strength and capital management enabled
    it to manage through the turbulent market conditions. The
    Company s financial strength enabled it to remain focused
    on organic growth and investing in business initiatives that
    strengthen its presence and product offerings for customers.
    This focus over the past several years has created a well
    diversified business, generating strong fee-based revenues that
    represented over 50 percent of total net revenue in 2007.
    While net interest income declined in 2007 due to lower net
    interest margins, average earning assets increased
    4.5 percent year-over-year, despite a very competitive
    credit environment in the first half of the year. By the end of
    2007, the Company s net interest margin was beginning to
    stabilize and average earning assets grew by 11.1 percent,
    on an annualized basis, in the fourth quarter, compared with the
    third quarter of 2007. The Company s performance was also
    driven by the continued strong credit quality of the
    Company s loan portfolios, despite stress in the mortgage
    lending and homebuilding industries and an anticipated increase
    in consumer charge-offs, primarily related to credit cards. The
    ratio of nonperforming assets to total loans and other real
    estate was .45 percent at December 31, 2007, compared
    with .41 percent at December 31, 2006. Total net
    charge-offs were .54 percent of average loans outstanding
    in 2007, compared with .39 percent in 2006. In 2008, credit
    quality within the industry is expected to continue to
    deteriorate. While the Company s loan portfolios are not
    immune to these economic factors and will deteriorate somewhat,
    credit quality trends of the Company are expected to be
    manageable through the foreseeable business cycle. Finally, the
    Company s efficiency ratio (the ratio of noninterest
    expense to taxable-equivalent net revenue excluding net
    securities gains or losses) was 49.3 percent in 2007,
    compared with 45.4 percent in 2006, and continues to be an
    industry leader. The Company s ability to effectively
    manage its cost structure has provided a strategic advantage in
    this highly competitive environment. As a result of these
    factors, the Company achieved a return on average common equity
    of 21.3 percent in 2007.

The Company s strong performance is also reflected in its
    capital levels and the favorable credit ratings assigned by
    various credit rating agencies. Equity capital of the Company
    continued to be strong at 5.1 percent of tangible assets at
    December 31, 2007, compared with 5.5 percent at
    December 31, 2006. The Company s regulatory
    Tier 1 capital ratio was 8.3 percent at
    December 31, 2007, compared with 8.8 percent at
    December 31, 2006. In 2007, the Company s credit
    ratings were upgraded by Standard   Poor s
    Ratings Services. Credit ratings assigned by various credit
    rating agencies reflect the rating agencies  recognition of
    the Company s industry-leading earnings performance and
    credit risk profile.

In concert with this financial performance, the Company achieved
    its objective of returning at least 80 percent of earnings
    to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases
    by returning 111 percent of 2007 earnings to shareholders.
    In December 2007, the Company increased its cash dividend by
    6.3 percent from the dividend rate of the fourth quarter of
    2006. During 2007, the Company continued to repurchase common
    shares under the share repurchase program announced in August
    2006.

The Company s financial and strategic objectives are
    unchanged from those goals that have enabled it to deliver
    industry-leading financial performance. While net income
    declined in 2007 and is expected to grow somewhat moderately in
    2008, the Company s financial objectives are to achieve
    10 percent long-term growth in earnings per common share
    and a return on common equity of at least 20 percent. The
    Company will continue to focus on effectively managing credit
    quality and maintaining an acceptable level of credit and
    earnings volatility. The Company intends to achieve these
    financial objectives by providing high-quality customer service
    and continuing to make strategic investments in businesses that
    diversify and generate fee-based revenues, enhance the
    Company s distribution network or expand its product
    offerings. Finally, the Company continues to target an
    80 percent return of earnings to its shareholders through
    dividends or share repurchases.

Earnings Summary
       The Company reported net
    income of $4.3 billion in 2007, or $2.43 per diluted common
    share, compared with $4.8 billion, or $2.61 per diluted
    common

18  U.S. BANCORP  

share, in 2006. Return on average assets and return on average
    common equity were 1.93 percent and 21.3 percent,
    respectively, in 2007, compared with returns of
    2.23 percent and 23.6 percent, respectively, in 2006.
    The decline in the Company s net income was driven by
    several significant items discussed below and management s
    decision to further invest in payment services businesses,
    geographical presence, technology, relationship management and
    other customer service initiatives and product innovations.
    Also, credit losses increased in 2007 due to loan portfolio
    growth, somewhat higher levels of nonperforming assets from
    stress in the mortgage lending and homebuilding industries and
    deterioration in consumer credit quality experienced throughout
    the banking industry.

Table
    1       SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA

(a)

Presented
    on a fully taxable-equivalent basis utilizing a tax rate of
    35 percent.   

(b)

Computed
    as noninterest expense divided by the sum of net interest income
    on a taxable-equivalent basis and noninterest income excluding
    securities gains (losses), net.   

U.S. BANCORP  19  

Total net revenue, on a taxable-equivalent basis for 2007, was
    $300 million (2.2 percent) higher than 2006, primarily
    reflecting a 4.8 percent increase in noninterest income,
    partially offset by a .4 percent decline in net interest
    income from a year ago. Noninterest income growth was driven
    primarily by organic growth in fee-based revenue of
    8.6 percent, muted somewhat by $107 million of market
    valuation losses related to securities purchased during 2007
    from certain money market funds managed by an affiliate. Refer
    to the  Market Risk Management  section for further
    information on securities purchased from certain money market
    funds managed by an affiliate. The fee-based revenue growth was
    further offset by the net favorable impact in 2006 of
    $142 million from several previously reported items,
    including a $50 million gain related to certain
    derivatives, $67 million of gains from the initial public
    offering and subsequent sale of equity interests in a cardholder
    association, a $52 million gain from the sale of a 401(k)
    defined contribution recordkeeping business and a
    $10 million gain related to a favorable settlement in the
    merchant processing business, offset by a $37 million
    reduction in mortgage banking revenue due principally to the
    adoption of fair value accounting for mortgage servicing rights
    ( MSRs ). The modest decline in net interest income
    reflected growth in average earning assets, more than offset by
    a lower net interest margin. In 2007, average earning assets
    increased $8.5 billion (4.5 percent), compared with
    2006, primarily due to growth in total average loans of
    $6.7 billion (4.8 percent) and investment securities
    of $1.4 billion (3.4 percent). The net interest margin
    in 2007 was 3.47 percent, compared with 3.65 percent
    in 2006. The year-over-year decline in net interest margin
    reflected lower credit spreads given the competitive
    environment, a flat yield curve during early 2007 and lower net
    free funds relative to a year ago. In addition, funding costs
    were higher as rates paid on interest-bearing deposits increased
    and the funding mix continued to shift toward higher cost
    deposits and wholesale funding sources. These adverse factors
    impacting the net interest margin were offset somewhat by higher
    loan fees.

Total noninterest expense in 2007 increased $682 million
    (11.0 percent), compared with 2006, representing an
    efficiency ratio of 49.3 percent in 2007, compared with
    45.4 percent in 2006. The increase included
    $330 million of charges recognized in 2007 for the
    Company s proportionate share of a contingent obligation to
    indemnify Visa Inc. for certain litigation matters, including
    the settlement between Visa U.S.A. Inc. and American Express
    (collectively  Visa Charge ). For more information on
    the Visa Charge, refer to Note 21 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, the increase in
    noninterest expense was caused by specific management decisions
    to make further investments in revenue-enhancing business
    initiatives designed to expand the Company s geographical
    presence, strengthen corporate and commercial banking
    relationship management, capitalize on current product
    offerings, further improve technology and support innovation of
    products and services for customers. Growth in expenses from a
    year ago also included costs related to acquired payments
    businesses, investments in affordable housing and other
    tax-advantaged products, an increase in credit-related costs for
    other real estate owned and collection activities, and an
    increase in merchant airline processing expenses primarily due
    to sales volumes and business expansion with a major airline.
    The increase in these costs was partially offset by a
    $33 million debt prepayment charge recorded in 2006.

The provision for credit losses was $792 million for 2007,
    an increase of $248 million (45.6 percent) from 2006,
    reflecting growth in credit card accounts, increasing retail
    loan delinquencies and higher commercial and consumer credit
    losses from a year ago. In addition, the provision for credit
    losses in 2006 partially reflected the favorable residual impact
    on net charge-offs, principally for credit cards and other
    retail charge-offs, resulting from changes in bankruptcy laws
    enacted in the fourth quarter of 2005.

STATEMENT OF INCOME
    ANALYSIS

Net Interest
    Income    Net interest
    income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, was $6.8 billion in
    2007, $6.8 billion in 2006 and $7.1 billion in 2005.
    Average earning assets were $194.7 billion for 2007,
    compared with $186.2 billion and $178.4 billion for
    2006 and 2005, respectively. The $8.5 billion
    (4.5 percent) increase in average earning assets for 2007,
    compared with 2006, was primarily driven by growth in total
    average loans of $6.7 billion (4.8 percent) and
    average investment securities of $1.4 billion
    (3.4 percent). The positive impact on net interest income
    from growth in earning assets was more than offset by a lower
    net interest margin from a year ago. The net interest margin in
    2007 was 3.47 percent, compared with 3.65 percent and
    3.97 percent in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The
    18 basis point decline in 2007 net interest margin,
    compared with 2006, reflected the competitive business
    environment in 2007, the impact of a flat yield curve during the
    first half of the year and declining net free funds relative to
    a year ago. Compared with 2006, credit spreads tightened by
    approximately 6 basis points across most lending products
    due to competitive loan pricing. The reduction in net free funds
    was primarily due to a decline in non-interest bearing deposits,
    an investment in bank-owned life insurance, share repurchases
    through mid-third quarter 2007 and the impact of acquisitions.
    In addition, funding costs were higher as rates paid on
    interest-bearing deposits

20  U.S. BANCORP  

Table
    2       ANALYSIS
    OF NET INTEREST INCOME

(a)

Interest
    and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis
    utilizing a federal tax rate of 35 percent.   

(b)

Represents
    noninterest-bearing deposits, allowance for loan losses,
    unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities,
    non-earning assets, other noninterest-bearing liabilities and
    equity.   

increased and the funding mix continued to shift toward higher
    cost deposits and other funding sources. An increase in loan
    fees partially offset these factors. During the second half of
    2007, the financial markets experienced significant turbulence
    as the impact of sub-prime mortgage delinquencies, defaults and
    foreclosures adversely affected investor confidence in a broad
    range of investment sectors and asset classes. In response to
    certain liquidity disruptions, the increasing risk of a credit
    crunch and other economic factors, the Federal Reserve Bank
    began to reduce interest rates beginning in September 2007, in
    an effort to stimulate the economy and restore investor
    confidence in the financial markets. Since that time, the target
    Federal Fund rate declined 100 basis points through
    year-end and another 125 basis points during January 2008.
    If the Federal Reserve Bank leaves rates unchanged from the
    current Federal Funds rate of 3.00 percent, the Company
    would expect the net interest margin to remain relatively stable
    at levels similar to 2007. This outlook is based on expectations
    that credit spreads will improve slightly, higher yielding
    retail loans will continue to grow, funding and liquidity in the
    overnight financial markets will normalize and the Company will
    resume its share repurchase program after the first quarter of
    2008.

Average loans in 2007 were $6.7 billion (4.8 percent)
    higher than 2006, driven by growth in retail loans, commercial
    loans and residential mortgages of $3.5 billion
    (7.7 percent), $2.4 billion (5.2 percent) and
    $1.0 billion (4.9 percent), respectively, partially
    offset by a modest decline in commercial real estate loans of
    $.2 billion (.6 percent). The favorable change in
    average retail loans included strong growth in credit card
    balances of 25.4 percent as a result of growth in branch
    originated, co-branded and financial institution partner
    portfolios. Average installment loans, including automobile
    loans, increased 11.2 percent from a year ago. Average home
    equity loans increased at a more moderate growth rate of
    5.1 percent, impacted somewhat by the changing trends in
    residential home valuations, while retail leasing balances
    declined approximately 8.4 percent from a year ago. The
    increase in average commercial loans was principally due to
    growth in corporate and industrial lending, equipment leasing
    and corporate payments product offerings. The decline in average
    commercial real estate balances reflected customer refinancing
    activities in the capital markets during the first half of 2007,
    a decision by the Company to reduce condominium construction
    financing and the impact of a economic slowdown in residential
    homebuilding since 2006.

Average investment securities were $1.4 billion
    (3.4 percent) higher in 2007, compared with 2006. The
    increase principally reflected higher balances in the municipal
    securities portfolio and the purchase in the fourth quarter of
    2007 of securities from certain money market funds managed by an
    affiliate. This increase was partially offset by a reduction in
    mortgage-backed assets due to prepayments. Refer to the
     Interest Rate Risk Management  section for further
    information on the sensitivity of net interest income to changes
    in interest rates.

Average noninterest-bearing deposits in 2007 were
    $1.4 billion (4.8 percent) lower than 2006. The
    year-over-

U.S. BANCORP  21  

Table
    3       NET
    INTEREST INCOME   CHANGES DUE TO RATE AND VOLUME (a)

(a)

This
    table shows the components of the change in net interest income
    by volume and rate on a taxable-equivalent basis utilizing a tax
    rate of 35 percent. This table does not take into account
    the level of noninterest-bearing funding, nor does it fully
    reflect changes in the mix of assets and liabilities. The change
    in interest not solely due to changes in volume or rates has
    been allocated on a pro-rata basis to volume and
    yield/rate.   

year decrease reflected a decline in personal and business
    demand deposits, partially offset by higher trust deposits. The
    decline in personal demand deposit balances occurred within the
    Consumer Banking business line. The decline in business demand
    deposits occurred within most business lines as business
    customers utilized deposit balances to fund business growth and
    meet other liquidity requirements.

Average total savings products increased $.9 billion
    (1.7 percent) in 2007, compared with 2006, as increases in
    interest checking balances more than offset declines in money
    market and savings balances, primarily within Consumer Banking.
    Interest checking balances increased $2.6 billion
    (10.9 percent) in 2007, compared with 2006, due to higher
    broker-dealer, government and institutional trust balances.
    Average money market savings balances declined year-over-year by
    $1.3 billion (5.0 percent) as a result of the
    Company s deposit pricing decisions for money market
    products in relation to other fixed-rate deposit products.
    During 2007, a portion of branch-based money market savings
    accounts migrated to fixed-rate time certificates, as customers
    took advantage of higher interest rates for these products.

Average time certificates of deposit less than $100,000 were
    $.9 billion (6.5 percent) higher in 2007, compared
    with 2006. The year-over-year growth in time certificates less
    than $100,000 was primarily due to branch-based time deposits,
    reflecting customer migration to higher rate deposit products
    and pricing decisions for these products. Average time deposits
    greater than $100,000 were basically unchanged in 2007, compared
    with 2006. Time deposits greater than $100,000 are largely
    viewed as purchased funds and are managed at levels deemed
    appropriate, given alternative funding sources.

The decline in net interest income in 2006, compared with 2005,
    reflected growth in average earning assets, more than offset by
    a lower net interest margin. The $7.8 billion
    (4.4 percent) increase in average earning assets for 2006,
    compared with 2005, was primarily driven by growth in average
    loans, partially offset by a decrease in average investment
    securities. The 32 basis point decline in net interest
    margin in 2006, compared with 2005, reflected the competitive
    lending environment and the impact of a flatter yield curve. The
    net interest margin also declined due to funding incremental
    asset growth with higher cost wholesale funding, share
    repurchases and asset/liability decisions. An

22  U.S. BANCORP  

increase in the margin benefit of net free funds and loan fees
    partially offset these factors.

Average loans in 2006 were higher by $9.0 billion
    (6.8 percent), compared with 2005, driven by growth in
    residential mortgages, commercial loans and retail loans.
    Average investment securities were $2.1 billion
    (5.1 percent) lower in 2006, compared with 2005,
    principally reflecting asset/liability management decisions to
    reduce the focus on residential mortgage-backed assets given the
    rising interest rate environment in 2006 and the mix of loan
    growth experienced by the Company. Average noninterest-bearing
    deposits in 2006 were $.5 billion (1.6 percent) lower
    than in 2005. The year-over-year decrease reflected a decline in
    personal and business demand deposits, partially offset by
    higher corporate trust deposits resulting from acquisitions.
    Average total savings products declined $2.1 billion
    (3.6 percent) in 2006, compared with 2005, due to
    reductions in average money market savings and other savings
    accounts, partially offset by an increase in interest checking
    balances. Average money market savings account balances declined
    from 2005 to 2006 by $2.6 billion (9.0 percent),
    primarily due to a decline in branch-based balances. The decline
    was primarily the result of the Company s deposit pricing
    decisions for money market products in relation to other
    fixed-rate deposit products offered. During 2006, a portion of
    branch-based money market savings balances migrated to
    fixed-rate time certificates to take advantage of higher
    interest rates for these products. Average time certificates of
    deposit less than $100,000 and average time deposits greater
    than $100,000 grew $.6 billion (4.3 percent) and
    $1.6 billion (7.7 percent), respectively, in 2006
    compared with 2005, primarily driven by the migration of money
    market balances within the Consumer Banking and Wealth
    Management   Securities Services business lines, as
    customers migrated balances to higher rate deposits.

Provision for
    Credit
    Losses   
        The provision for credit
    losses is recorded to bring the allowance for credit losses to a
    level deemed appropriate by management, based on factors
    discussed in the  Analysis and Determination of Allowance
    for Credit Losses  section.

In 2007, the provision for credit losses was $792 million,
    compared with $544 million and $666 million in 2006
    and 2005, respectively. The $248 million
    (45.6 percent) increase in the provision for credit losses
    in 2007 reflected growth in credit card accounts, increasing
    loan delinquencies and nonperforming loans, and higher
    commercial and consumer credit losses from a year ago. In
    addition, the provision for 2006 partially reflected the
    favorable residual impact on net charge-offs, principally for
    credit cards and other retail charge-offs, resulting from
    changes in bankruptcy laws enacted in the fourth quarter of
    2005. Nonperforming loans increased $87 million
    (18.5 percent) from December 31, 2006, as a result of
    stress in condominium and other residential home construction.
    Accruing loans ninety days past due increased $235 million
    (67.3 percent), primarily related to residential mortgages,
    credit cards and home equity loans. Restructured loans that
    continue to accrue interest increased $127 million
    (31.3 percent), reflecting the impact of programs for
    certain credit card and sub-prime residential mortgage customers
    in light of current economic conditions. Net charge-offs
    increased $248 million (45.6 percent) from 2006,
    primarily due to an anticipated increase in consumer charge-offs
    principally related to growth in credit card balances, and
    somewhat higher commercial loan net charge-offs. In addition,
    net charge-offs were lower during 2006, reflecting the
    beneficial impact of bankruptcy legislation that went into
    effect during the fourth quarter of 2005.

The $122 million (18.3 percent) decrease in the
    provision for credit losses in 2006, compared with 2005,
    reflected stable credit quality in 2006 and the adverse impact
    in the fourth quarter of 2005 on net charge-offs from changes in
    bankruptcy laws enacted in 2005. Nonperforming loans,
    principally reflecting favorable changes in the quality of
    commercial loans, declined $74 million from
    December 31, 2005. However, accruing loans ninety days past
    due and restructured loans that continue to accrue interest
    increased by $186 million over this same period. Net
    charge-offs declined $141 million from 2005, principally
    due to the impact of changes in bankruptcy laws that went into
    effect during the fourth quarter of 2005. In 2005, approximately
    $64 million of incremental net charge-offs occurred due to
    the change in bankruptcy laws and a separate policy change
    related to overdraft balances. As a result of these changes,
    bankruptcy charge-offs were lower in 2006, while customers
    experiencing credit deterioration migrated further through
    contractual delinquencies. Refer to  Corporate Risk
    Profile  for further information on the provision for
    credit losses, net charge-offs, nonperforming assets and other
    factors considered by the Company in assessing the credit
    quality of the loan portfolio and establishing the allowance for
    credit losses.

Noninterest
    Income   
        Noninterest income in 2007
    was $7.2 billion, compared with $6.8 billion in 2006
    and $6.0 billion in 2005. The $326 million
    (4.8 percent) increase in 2007 over 2006, was driven by
    strong organic fee-based revenue growth (8.6 percent) in
    most fee categories, offset somewhat by the $107 million in
    valuation losses related to securities purchased from certain
    money market funds managed by an affiliate. Additionally, 2006
    included several significant items representing approximately
    $142 million of incremental revenue, including: higher
    trading income related to gains from the termination of certain
    interest rate swaps, equity gains from the initial public
    offering and

U.S. BANCORP  23  

Table
    4       NONINTEREST
    INCOME

*

Not
    meaningful   

subsequent sale of the equity interests in a cardholder
    association, a gain on the sale of a 401(k) defined contribution
    recordkeeping business, and a favorable settlement in the
    merchant processing business, offset by lower mortgage banking
    revenue due to adopting fair value accounting standards for MSRs.

The growth in credit and debit card revenue of 18.6 percent
    was primarily driven by an increase in customer accounts and
    higher customer transaction volumes from a year ago. The
    increase coincides with the strong organic growth in credit card
    balances during the year. The corporate payment products revenue
    growth of 13.3 percent reflected growth in customer sales
    volumes and card usage, and the impact of an acquired business.
    Merchant processing services revenue was 14.3 percent
    higher in 2007, compared with 2006, reflecting an increase in
    customers and sales volumes on both a domestic and global basis.
    Trust and investment management fees increased 8.4 percent
    primarily due to core account growth and favorable equity market
    conditions during the year. Deposit service charges were
    3.4 percent higher year-over-year due primarily to
    increased transaction-related fees and the impact of continued
    growth in net new checking accounts. This growth in deposit
    account-related revenue was muted somewhat as service charges,
    traditionally reflected in this fee category, continued to
    migrate to yield-related loan fees as customers utilized new
    consumer products. Treasury management fees increased
    7.0 percent over the prior year due, in part, to new
    customer account growth, new product offerings and higher
    transaction volumes. Commercial products revenue increased
    4.3 percent over the prior year due to higher syndication
    fees, and foreign exchange and commercial leasing revenue.
    Mortgage banking revenue increased 34.9 percent in 2007,
    compared with 2006, due to an increase in mortgage originations
    and servicing income, partially offset by an adverse net change
    in the valuation of MSRs and related economic hedging activities
    given changing interest rates. In 2006, mortgage banking revenue
    included a valuation loss of $37 million related to the
    adoption of fair value accounting for MSRs.

Growth in these fee-based revenue categories was partially
    offset by slightly lower investment products fees and
    commissions and a decline in other income. The 35.5 percent
    reduction of other revenue in 2007, compared with 2006, included
    $107 million in valuation losses recognized in 2007,
    related to securities purchased from certain money market funds
    managed by an affiliate. In addition, 2006 results reflected a
    $52 million gain on the sale of a 401(k) defined
    contribution recordkeeping business, $67 million of gains
    on the initial public offering and subsequent sale of the equity
    interests in a cardholder association, a $10 million
    favorable legal settlement within the merchant processing
    business and a $50 million trading gain related to
    terminating certain interest rate swaps.

The $801 million (13.3 percent) increase in 2006 over
    2005, was driven by organic business growth in several fee
    categories, expansion in trust and payment processing
    businesses, a favorable change of $120 million in net
    securities gains (losses) and other gains recorded in 2006 of
    $179 million. These included the gains from terminated
    interest rate swaps, equity gains from the initial public
    offering and subsequent sale of the equity interests in a
    cardholder association, gains from the sale of a 401(k) defined
    contribution recordkeeping business and a favorable legal
    settlement in the merchant processing business. The growth in
    credit and debit card revenue was principally driven by higher
    customer transaction sales volumes and fees related to cash
    advances, balance transfers and over-limit positions. The
    corporate payment products revenue growth reflected organic
    growth in sales volumes and card usage, enhancements in product
    pricing and acquired business expansion. ATM processing services
    revenue was higher due

24  U.S. BANCORP  

to an ATM business acquisition in May 2005. Merchant processing
    services revenue reflected an increase in sales volume driven by
    acquisitions, higher same store sales, new merchant signings and
    associated equipment fees. The increase in trust and investment
    management fees was primarily due to organic customer account
    growth, improving asset management fees given favorable equity
    market conditions, and incremental revenue generated by
    acquisitions of corporate and institutional trust businesses.
    Deposit service charges grew due to increased
    transaction-related fees and the impact of net new checking
    accounts. Mortgage banking revenue declined primarily due to the
    adoption of fair value accounting for MSRs. Other income
    increased primarily due to the notable asset gains previously
    discussed.

Noninterest
    Expense    Noninterest
    expense in 2007 was $6.9 billion, compared with
    $6.2 billion and $5.9 billion in 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. The Company s efficiency ratio increased to
    49.3 percent in 2007 from 45.4 percent in 2006. The
    change in the efficiency ratio and the $682 million
    (11.0 percent) increase in noninterest expenses in 2007,
    compared with 2006, was principally due to a $330 million
    Visa Charge recognized in 2007 for the contingent obligation for
    certain Visa U.S.A. Inc. litigation matters. The remaining
    expense increase was principally related to higher credit costs,
    incremental growth in tax-advantaged projects or specific
    management investment in revenue-enhancing business initiatives
    designed to expand the Company s geographical presence,
    strengthen corporate and commercial banking relationship
    management, capitalize on current product offerings, further
    improve technology and support innovation of products and
    services for customers. The impact of these factors was
    reflected in various expense categories.

Compensation expense was 5.1 percent higher year-over-year
    primarily due to investment in personnel within the branch
    distribution network, Wholesale Banking and Payment Services in
    connection with various business initiatives, including the
    Company s PowerBank initiative with Consumer Banking,
    expanding its corporate banking team, enhancing relationship
    management processes and supporting organic business growth and
    acquired businesses. Employee benefits expense increased
    2.7 percent year-over-year as higher medical costs were
    partially offset by lower pension costs. Net occupancy and
    equipment expense increased 3.9 percent primarily due to
    bank acquisitions and investments in branches. Professional
    services expense was 17.1 percent higher due to revenue
    enhancing business initiatives, higher litigation-related costs,
    and higher legal fees associated with the establishment of a
    bank charter in Ireland to support pan-European payment
    processing. Marketing and business development expense increased
    11.5 percent over the prior year due to higher customer
    promotion, solicitation and advertising activities. Postage,
    printing and supplies increased 6.8 percent due to
    increasing customer promotional mailings and changes in postal
    rates from a year ago. Other intangibles expense increased
    5.9 percent year-over-year due to recent acquisitions in
    Consumer Banking, Wealth Management   Securities
    Services and Payment Services. Other expense increased
    $444 million (46.6 percent) over the prior year
    primarily due to the $330 million Visa Charge, higher costs
    related to affordable housing and other tax-advantaged
    investments, an increase in merchant processing expenses to
    support organic growth in Payment Services, integration expenses
    related to recent acquisitions and higher credit-related costs
    for other real estate owned and loan collection activities.
    These increases were partially offset by $33 million of
    debt prepayment charges recorded during 2006.

The $317 million (5.4 percent) increase in noninterest
    expenses in 2006, compared with 2005, was primarily driven by
    incremental operating and business integration costs associated
    with acquisitions, increased pension costs and higher expense
    related to certain tax-advantaged

Table
    5       NONINTEREST
    EXPENSE

(a)

Included
    in other expense in 2007 was a $330 million charge related
    to the Company s contingent obligation to Visa U.S.A. Inc
    for indemnification of certain litigation matters.   

(b)

Computed
    as noninterest expense divided by the sum of net interest income
    on a taxable-equivalent basis and noninterest income excluding
    securities gains (losses), net.   

*

Not
    meaningful   

U.S. BANCORP  25  

investments. This was partially offset by a reduction in other
    intangibles expense and lower debt prepayment charges in 2006.
    Compensation expense was higher primarily due to corporate and
    institutional trust and payments processing acquisitions and
    other growth initiatives undertaken by the Company. Employee
    benefits increased primarily as a result of higher pension
    expense. Net occupancy and equipment expense increased primarily
    due to business expansion. Professional services expense was
    higher primarily due to revenue enhancement-related business
    initiatives and higher legal costs. Technology and
    communications expense rose, reflecting higher outside data
    processing expense principally associated with expanding a
    prepaid gift card program and acquisitions. Other intangibles
    expense decreased in connection with the adoption of fair value
    accounting for MSRs in 2006, and the impact of eliminating the
    amortization and related impairments or reparations of these
    servicing rights. Debt prepayment charges declined from 2005 and
    were related to longer-term callable debt that was prepaid by
    the Company as part of asset/liability decisions to improve
    funding costs and reposition the Company s interest rate
    risk position. Other expense increased primarily due to
    increased investments in tax-advantaged projects and business
    integration costs.

Pension Plans
       Because of the long-term
    nature of pension plans, the administration and accounting for
    pensions is complex and can be impacted by several factors,
    including investment and funding policies, accounting methods
    and the plans  actuarial assumptions. Refer to Note 16
    of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further
    information on funding practices, investment policies and asset
    allocation strategies.

The Company s pension accounting policy follows generally
    accepted accounting standards and reflects the long-term nature
    of benefit obligations and the investment horizon of plan
    assets. Actuarial gains and losses include the impact of plan
    amendments and various unrecognized gains and losses related to
    differences in actual plan experience compared with actuarial
    assumptions, which are deferred and amortized over the future
    service periods of active employees. The actuarially derived
    market-related value utilized to determine the expected return
    on plan assets is based on fair value, adjusted for the
    difference between expected returns and actual performance of
    plan assets. The unrealized difference between actual experience
    and expected returns is included in the actuarially derived
    market-related value and amortized as a component of pension
    expense ratably over a five-year period. At September 30,
    2007, this accumulated unrecognized gain approximated
    $358 million, compared with $249 million at
    September 30, 2006. The impact on pension expense of the
    unrecognized asset gains will incrementally decrease pension
    costs in each year from 2008 to 2012, by approximately
    $38 million, $29 million, $24 million,
    $15 million and $12 million, respectively. This
    assumes that the performance of plan assets in 2008 and beyond
    equals the assumed long-term rate of return ( LTROR ).
    Actual results will vary depending on the performance of plan
    assets and changes to assumptions required in the future. Refer
    to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    for further discussion of the Company s accounting policies
    for pension plans.

In 2008, the Company anticipates that pension costs will
    decrease by approximately $36 million. The decrease will be
    primarily driven by utilizing a higher discount rate and
    amortization of unrecognized actuarial gains from prior years,
    accounting for approximately $14 million and
    $37 million of the anticipated decrease, respectively,
    partially offset by a $15 million increase related to a
    change in the assumption of future salary growth.

Due to the complexity of forecasting pension plan activities,
    the accounting method utilized for pension plans,
    management s ability to respond to factors impacting the
    plans and the hypothetical nature of this information, the
    actual changes in periodic pension costs could be different than
    the information provided in the sensitivity analysis below.

Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    provides a summary of the significant pension plan assumptions.
    Because of the subjective nature of plan assumptions, a
    sensitivity analysis to hypothetical changes in the LTROR and
    the discount rate is provided below:

Income Tax
    Expense    The provision
    for income taxes was $1,883 million (an effective rate of
    30.3 percent) in 2007, compared with $2,112 million
    (an effective rate of 30.8 percent) in 2006 and
    $2,082 million (an effective rate of 31.7 percent) in
    2005. The decrease in the effective tax rate from 2006 primarily
    reflected higher tax exempt income from investment securities
    and insurance products as well as incremental tax credits from
    affordable housing and other tax-advantaged investments.

Included in 2006 was a reduction of income tax expense of
    $61 million related to the resolution of federal income tax
    examinations covering substantially all of the Company s
    legal entities for all years through 2004 and $22 million
    related to certain state examinations. Included in the
    determination of income taxes for 2005 was a reduction

26  U.S. BANCORP  

of income tax expense of $94 million related to the
    resolution of income tax examinations. The Company anticipates
    that its effective tax rate for the foreseeable future will
    remain stable relative to the full year rate for 2007 of
    30.3 percent of pretax earnings.

For further information on income taxes, refer to Note 18
    of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

BALANCE SHEET
    ANALYSIS

Average earning assets were $194.7 billion in 2007,
    compared with $186.2 billion in 2006. The increase in
    average earning assets of $8.5 billion (4.5 percent)
    was due to growth in total average loans (4.8 percent),
    investment securities (3.4 percent) and loans held-for-sale
    (17.3 percent), partially offset by slightly lower trading
    and other earning assets. The change in total average earning
    assets was principally funded by increases in wholesale funding.

For average balance information, refer to Consolidated Daily
    Average Balance Sheet and Related Yields and Rates on
    pages 112 and 113.

Loans
       The Company s loan
    portfolio was $153.8 billion at December 31, 2007, an
    increase of $10.2 billion (7.1 percent) from
    December 31, 2006. The increase was driven by growth in all
    major loan categories with strong growth in commercial loans
    (10.6 percent), retail loans (6.9 percent), and
    residential mortgages (7.0 percent) and more moderate

Table
    6       LOAN
    PORTFOLIO DISTRIBUTION

Table 7       SELECTED
    LOAN MATURITY DISTRIBUTION

U.S. BANCORP  27  

growth in commercial real estate loans (2.0 percent). Table
    6 provides a summary of the loan distribution by product type,
    while Table 7 provides a summary of selected loan maturity
    distribution by loan category. Average total loans increased
    $6.7 billion (4.8 percent) in 2007, compared with
    2006. The increase was due to strong growth in retail loans and
    moderate growth in commercial loans and residential mortgages,
    while average commercial real estate loans were essentially
    unchanged from a year ago.

Commercial
       Commercial loans,
    including lease financing, increased $4.9 billion
    (10.6 percent) as of December 31, 2007, compared with
    December 31, 2006. During 2007, the Company made certain
    personnel investments and organizational changes to better
    emphasize corporate banking, with an enhanced focus on
    relationship banking. As a result of these business initiatives
    and changing economic conditions, the Company experienced growth
    in commercial loans driven by new customer relationships,
    utilization of lines of credit and growth in commercial leasing
    and corporate payment card balances. Average commercial loans
    increased $2.4 billion (5.2 percent) in 2007, compared
    with 2006, primarily due to these initiatives and an increase in
    commercial loan demand driven by general economic conditions in
    2007.

Table 8 provides a summary of commercial loans by industry
    and geographical locations.

Commercial Real
    Estate    The
    Company s portfolio of commercial real estate loans, which
    includes commercial mortgages and construction loans, was
    essentially unchanged from a year ago. Total commercial real
    estate balances increased $.6 billion (2.0 percent) at
    December 31, 2007, compared with December 31, 2006.
    Average commercial real estate loans decreased $.2 billion
    (.6 percent) in 2007, compared with 2006. Since 2006,
    growth in commercial real estate balances has been limited due
    to capital market

Table
    8       COMMERCIAL
    LOANS BY INDUSTRY GROUP AND GEOGRAPHY

28  U.S. BANCORP  

Table
    9       COMMERCIAL
    REAL ESTATE BY PROPERTY TYPE AND GEOGRAPHY

conditions in early 2007 that enabled customer refinancing of
    projects, a management decision to reduce condominium
    construction financing in selected markets, and a slowdown in
    residential homebuilding impacting construction lending. During
    the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company experienced growth of
    2.4 percent in commercial real estate loans as developers
    sought bank financing as liquidity disruptions in the capital
    markets occurred. Table 9 provides a summary of commercial
    real estate by property type and geographical locations.

The Company maintains the real estate construction designation
    until the completion of the construction phase and, if retained,
    the loan is reclassified to the commercial mortgage category.
    Approximately $107 million of construction loans were
    permanently financed and reclassified to the commercial mortgage
    loan category in 2007. At December 31, 2007,
    $231 million of tax-exempt industrial development loans
    were secured by real estate. The Company s commercial real
    estate mortgages and construction loans had unfunded commitments
    of $8.9 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006. The
    Company also finances the operations of real estate developers
    and other entities with operations related to real estate. These
    loans are not secured directly by real estate and are subject to
    terms and conditions similar to commercial loans. These loans
    were included in the commercial loan category and totaled
    $1.8 billion at December 31, 2007.

Residential
    Mortgages    Residential
    mortgages held in the loan portfolio at December 31, 2007,
    increased $1.5 billion (7.0 percent) from
    December 31, 2006. The growth was principally the result of
    an increase in consumer finance originations during the year.
    The majority of loans retained in the portfolio represented
    originations to customers with better than sub-prime credit risk
    ratings. Average residential mortgages increased
    1.0 billion (4.9 percent) in 2007, compared with 2006.
    The growth in average residential mortgages from the consumer
    finance distribution channel was offset somewhat by lower
    balances from traditional branch and mortgage banking channels.

Retail
       Total retail loans
    outstanding, which include credit card, retail leasing, home
    equity and second mortgages and other retail loans, increased
    $3.3 billion (6.9 percent) at December 31, 2007,
    compared with December 31, 2006.

U.S. BANCORP  29  

Table
    10       RESIDENTIAL
    MORTGAGES AND RETAIL LOANS BY GEOGRAPHY

The increase was primarily driven by growth in credit card,
    installment and home equity loans, partially offset by decreases
    in retail leasing and student loan balances. Average retail
    loans increased $3.5 billion (7.7 percent) in 2007,
    principally reflecting growth in credit card and installment
    loans. Strong growth in credit cards occurred in branch
    originated, co-branded and financial institution partner
    portfolios.

Of the total retail loans and residential mortgages outstanding,
    approximately 80.0 percent were to customers located in the
    Company s primary banking region. Table 10 provides a
    geographic summary of residential mortgages and retail loans
    outstanding as of December 31, 2007 and 2006.

Loans Held for
    Sale    Loans held for
    sale, consisting primarily of residential mortgages and student
    loans to be sold in the secondary market, were $4.8 billion
    at December 31, 2007, compared with $3.3 billion at
    December 31, 2006. The increase in loans held for sale was
    principally due to an increase in residential mortgage loan
    balances. Average loans held for sale were $4.3 billion in
    2007, compared with $3.7 billion in 2006. During 2007,
    certain companies in the mortgage banking industry experienced
    significant disruption due to their inability to access
    financing through the capital markets as investor concerns
    increased related to the quality of sub-prime loan originations
    and related securitizations. The Company s primary focus of
    originating conventional mortgages packaged through government
    agencies enabled it to avoid these issues impacting other
    mortgage banking firms. Given these market conditions and the
    nature of the Company s mortgage banking business,
    residential mortgage originations increased in 2007 by
    21.2 percent as customers sought more reliable financing
    alternatives.

Investment
    Securities    The Company
    uses its investment securities portfolio for several purposes.
    It serves as a vehicle to manage interest rate risk, generates
    interest and dividend income from the investment of excess funds
    depending on

30  U.S. BANCORP  

loan demand, provides liquidity and is used as collateral for
    public deposits and wholesale funding sources. While it is the
    Company s intent to hold its investment securities
    indefinitely, the Company may take actions in response to
    structural changes in the balance sheet and related interest
    rate risk and to meet liquidity requirements, among other
    factors.

At December 31, 2007, investment securities, both
    available-for-sale and held-to-maturity, totaled
    $43.1 billion, compared with $40.1 billion at
    December 31, 2006. The $3.0 billion (7.5 percent)
    increase reflected securities purchases of $9.7 billion
    partially offset by securities sales, maturities and
    prepayments. Included in purchases during 2007, were
    approximately $3.0 billion of securities from certain money
    market funds managed by an affiliate of the Company. These
    securities primarily represent beneficial interests in
    structured investment vehicles or similar

Table
    11       INVESTMENT
    SECURITIES

(a)

Information
    related to asset and mortgage-backed securities included above
    is presented based upon weighted-average maturities anticipating
    future prepayments.   

(b)

Information
    related to obligations of state and political subdivisions is
    presented based upon yield to first optional call date if the
    security is purchased at a premium, yield to maturity if
    purchased at par or a discount.   

(c)

The
    weighted-average maturity of the available-for-sale investment
    securities was 6.6 years at December 31, 2006, with a
    corresponding weighted-average yield of 5.32 percent. The
    weighted-average maturity of the held-to-maturity investment
    securities was 8.4 years at December 31, 2006, with a
    corresponding weighted-average yield of
    6.03 percent.   

(d)

Average
    yields are presented on a fully-taxable equivalent basis under a
    tax rate of 35 percent. Yields on available-for-sale and
    held-to-maturity securities are computed based on historical
    cost balances. Average yield and maturity calculations exclude
    equity securities that have no stated yield or
    maturity.   

(e)

Primarily
    includes investments in structured investment vehicles with
    underlying collateral that includes a mix of various mortgage
    and other asset-backed securities.   

U.S. BANCORP  31  

structures and are classified as asset-backed securities within
    the consolidated financial statements.

At December 31, 2007, approximately 39 percent of the
    investment securities portfolio represented adjustable-rate
    financial instruments, compared with 37 percent at
    December 31, 2006. Adjustable-rate financial instruments
    include variable-rate collateralized mortgage obligations,
    mortgage-backed securities, agency securities, adjustable-rate
    money market accounts, asset-backed securities, corporate debt
    securities and floating-rate preferred stock. Average investment
    securities were $1.4 billion (3.4 percent) higher in
    2007, compared with 2006, driven primarily by an increase in the
    municipal securities portfolio, partially offset by a reduction
    in mortgage-backed assets. The weighted-average yield of the
    available-for-sale portfolio was 5.51 percent at
    December 31, 2007, compared with 5.32 percent at
    December 31, 2006. The average maturity of the
    available-for-sale portfolio increased to 7.4 years at
    December 31, 2007, up from 6.6 years at
    December 31, 2006. The relative mix of the type of
    investment securities maintained in the portfolio is provided in
    Table 11.

The Company conducts a regular assessment of its investment
    portfolios to determine whether any securities are
    other-than-temporarily impaired considering, among other
    factors, the nature of the investments, credit ratings or
    financial condition of the issuer, the extent and duration of
    the unrealized loss, expected cash flows of underlying
    collateral, market conditions and the Company s ability to
    hold the securities through the anticipated recovery period.

At December 31, 2007, the available-for-sale securities
    portfolio included a $1.1 billion net unrealized loss,
    compared with a net unrealized loss of $600 million at
    December 31, 2006. The substantial portion of securities
    with unrealized losses were either government securities, issued
    by government-backed agencies or privately issued securities
    with high investment grade credit ratings and limited, if any,
    credit exposure. Some securities classified within obligations
    of state and political subdivisions are supported by mono-line
    insurers that have recently experienced credit rating
    downgrades. Based on management s evaluation, the impact of
    these changes is expected to be minimal to the Company. The
    majority of asset-backed securities at December 31, 2007,
    represented structured investments. The valuation of these
    securities is determined through estimates of expected cash
    flows, discount rates and management s assessment of
    various

Table
    12       DEPOSITS

The composition of deposits was as follows:

The maturity of time deposits was as follows:

32  U.S. BANCORP  

market factors, which are judgmental in nature. Based on
    management s review as of the reporting date, the Company
    expected to receive all principal and interest related to
    securities within its investment portfolios.

During January 2008, actions by the Federal Reserve Bank and a
    related rally in the fixed income markets caused the fair value
    of a substantial portion of investment securities to recover
    somewhat from their unrealized loss position. However, credit
    spreads for certain structured investment securities widened
    during the month causing their values to decline. Given the
    nature of these structured investments, the Company is likely to
    recognize further impairment of these investments during the
    next few quarters.

Deposits
       Total deposits were
    $131.4 billion at December 31, 2007, compared with
    $124.9 billion at December 31, 2006. The
    $6.5 billion (5.3 percent) increase in total deposits
    was primarily the result of increases in interest checking, time
    deposits and noninterest-bearing deposits, partially offset by a
    decrease in money market savings accounts. Average total
    deposits increased $.5 billion (.4 percent) from 2006,
    reflecting an increase in average interest checking and personal
    certificates of deposit, partially offset by a decrease in
    average noninterest-bearing deposits and money market savings
    accounts.

Noninterest-bearing deposits at December 31, 2007,
    increased $1.2 billion (3.8 percent) from
    December 31, 2006. The increase was primarily attributed to
    an increase in corporate trust deposits, partially offset by a
    decline in consumer and business demand deposits as these
    customers utilized deposit balances to fund business growth and
    meet other liquidity requirements. Average noninterest-bearing
    deposits in 2007 decreased $1.4 billion (4.8 percent),
    compared with 2006, due primarily to a decline in business
    demand deposits.

Interest-bearing savings deposits increased $1.8 billion
    (3.2 percent) at December 31, 2007, compared with
    December 31, 2006. The increase in these deposit balances
    was primarily related to higher interest checking account
    balances, partially offset by a reduction in money market
    savings balances. The $4.1 billion (16.2 percent)
    increase in interest checking account balances was due to higher
    broker-dealer, government and institutional trust balances. The
    $1.9 billion (7.3 percent) decrease in money market
    savings account balances reflected the Company s deposit
    pricing decisions for money market products in relation to
    fixed-rate time deposit products and business customer decisions
    to utilize deposit liquidity to fund business requirements.
    Average interest-bearing savings deposits in 2007 increased
    $.9 billion (1.7 percent), compared with 2006,
    primarily driven by higher interest checking account balances of
    $2.6 billion (10.9 percent), partially offset by a
    reduction in money market savings account balances of
    $1.3 billion (5.0 percent).

Interest-bearing time deposits at December 31, 2007,
    increased $3.5 billion (9.7 percent), compared with
    December 31, 2006, primarily driven by an increase in time
    deposits greater than $100,000. Time deposits greater than
    $100,000 increased $3.2 billion (14.4 percent),
    including a $.4 billion (8.9 percent) increase in
    personal certificates of deposit, compared with
    December 31, 2006, as customers migrated money market
    balances to these products. Average time certificates of deposit
    less than $100,000 increased $.9 billion (6.5 percent)
    and average time deposits greater than $100,000 were basically
    unchanged in 2007, compared with 2006. Time deposits greater
    than $100,000 are largely viewed as purchased funds and are
    managed to levels deemed appropriate given alternative funding
    sources.

Borrowings
       The Company utilizes
    both short-term and long-term borrowings to fund growth of
    assets in excess of deposit growth. Short-term borrowings, which
    include federal funds purchased, commercial paper, repurchase
    agreements, borrowings secured by high-grade assets and other
    short-term borrowings, were $32.4 billion at
    December 31, 2007, compared with $26.9 billion at
    December 31, 2006. Short-term funding is managed within
    approved liquidity policies. The increase of $5.5 billion
    in short-term borrowings reflected wholesale funding associated
    with the Company s asset growth and asset/liability
    management activities.

Long-term debt was $43.4 billion at December 31, 2007,
    compared with $37.6 billion at December 31, 2006,
    reflecting the issuances of $3.0 billion of convertible
    senior debentures, $1.3 billion of subordinated notes,
    $1.4 billion of medium-term notes and $.5 billion of
    junior subordinated debentures, and the net addition of
    $10.1 billion of Federal Home Loan Bank ( FHLB )
    advances, partially offset by long-term debt maturities and
    repayments. The $5.8 billion (15.5 percent) increase
    in long-term debt reflected wholesale funding associated with
    the Company s asset growth and asset/liability management
    activities. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements for additional information regarding
    long-term debt and the  Liquidity Risk Management 
    section for discussion of liquidity management of the Company.

CORPORATE RISK
    PROFILE

Overview
       Managing risks is an
    essential part of successfully operating a financial services
    company. The most prominent risk exposures are credit, residual
    value, operational, interest rate, market and liquidity risk.
    Credit risk is the risk of not collecting the interest
     and/or  the
    principal balance of a loan or investment when it is due.
    Residual value risk is the potential reduction in the
    end-of-term value of leased assets or the residual cash flows
    related to asset securitization and other off-balance sheet
    structures. Operational risk includes

U.S. BANCORP  33  

risks related to fraud, legal and compliance risk, processing
    errors, technology, breaches of internal controls and business
    continuation and disaster recovery risk. Interest rate risk is
    the potential change of net interest income as a result of
    changes in interest rates, which can affect the repricing of
    assets and liabilities differently, as well as their market
    value. Market risk arises from fluctuations in interest rates,
    foreign exchange rates, and security prices that may result in
    changes in the values of financial instruments, such as trading
    and available-for-sale securities that are accounted for on a
    mark-to-market basis. Liquidity risk is the possible inability
    to fund obligations to depositors, investors or borrowers. In
    addition, corporate strategic decisions, as well as the risks
    described above, could give rise to reputation risk. Reputation
    risk is the risk that negative publicity or press, whether true
    or not, could result in costly litigation or cause a decline in
    the Company s stock value, customer base or revenue.

Credit Risk
    Management    The
    Company s strategy for credit risk management includes
    well-defined, centralized credit policies, uniform underwriting
    criteria, and ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for
    all commercial and consumer credit exposures. The strategy also
    emphasizes diversification on a geographic, industry and
    customer level, regular credit examinations and management
    reviews of loans exhibiting deterioration of credit quality. The
    credit risk management strategy also includes a credit risk
    assessment process, independent of business line managers, that
    performs assessments of compliance with commercial and consumer
    credit policies, risk ratings, and other critical credit
    information. The Company strives to identify potential problem
    loans early, record any necessary charge-offs promptly and
    maintain adequate reserve levels for probable loan losses
    inherent in the portfolio. Commercial banking operations rely on
    prudent credit policies and procedures and individual lender and
    business line manager accountability. Lenders are assigned
    lending authority based on their level of experience and
    customer service requirements. Credit officers reporting to an
    independent credit administration function have higher levels of
    lending authority and support the business units in their credit
    decision process. Loan decisions are documented as to the
    borrower s business, purpose of the loan, evaluation of the
    repayment source and the associated risks, evaluation of
    collateral, covenants and monitoring requirements, and risk
    rating rationale. The Company utilizes a credit risk rating
    system to measure the credit quality of individual commercial
    loans, including the probability of default of an obligor and
    the loss given default of credit facilities. The Company uses
    the risk rating system for regulatory reporting, determining the
    frequency of review of the credit exposures, and evaluation and
    determination of the specific allowance for commercial credit
    losses. The Company regularly forecasts potential changes in
    risk ratings, nonperforming status and potential for loss and
    the estimated impact on the allowance for credit losses. In the
    Company s retail banking operations, standard credit
    scoring systems are used to assess credit risks of consumer,
    small business and small-ticket leasing customers and to price
    consumer products accordingly. The Company conducts the
    underwriting and collections of its retail products in loan
    underwriting and servicing centers specializing in certain
    retail products. Forecasts of delinquency levels, bankruptcies
    and losses in conjunction with projection of estimated losses by
    delinquency categories and vintage information are regularly
    prepared and are used to evaluate underwriting and collection
    and determine the specific allowance for credit losses for these
    products. Because business processes and credit risks associated
    with unfunded credit commitments are essentially the same as for
    loans, the Company utilizes similar processes to estimate its
    liability for unfunded credit commitments. The Company also
    engages in non-lending activities that may give rise to credit
    risk, including interest rate swap and option contracts for
    balance sheet hedging purposes, foreign exchange transactions,
    deposit overdrafts and interest rate swap contracts for
    customers, and settlement risk, including Automated Clearing
    House transactions, and the processing of credit card
    transactions for merchants. These activities are also subject to
    credit review, analysis and approval processes.

Economic and
    Other
    Factors    
      In evaluating its credit
    risk, the Company considers changes, if any, in underwriting
    activities, the loan portfolio composition (including product
    mix and geographic, industry or customer-specific
    concentrations), trends in loan performance, the level of
    allowance coverage relative to similar banking institutions and
    macroeconomic factors.

During 2005 through mid-2007, economic conditions steadily
    improved as reflected in strong expansion of the gross domestic
    product index, relatively low unemployment rates, expanding
    retail sales levels, favorable trends related to corporate
    profits and consumer spending for retail goods and services.
    Beginning in mid-2004 through the second quarter of 2006, the
    Federal Reserve Bank pursued a measured approach to increasing
    short-term rates in an effort to prevent an acceleration of
    inflation and maintain a moderate rate of economic growth. The
    rising interest rate environment caused some softening of
    residential home and condominium sales. Nationwide sales of
    condominium units reached a peak in mid-2005 and have declined
    since that timeframe.

During 2007, economic conditions were mixed. While gross
    domestic product continued to expand at a slower rate,
    unemployment rates have risen somewhat, inflation continues to
    be problematic, retail sales have slowed and vehicle sales
    levels continue to decline. Both consumer and business
    bankruptcies have continued to rise from levels experienced in
    2006 and industrial production and corporate profit levels have
    began to slow or decline somewhat from prior years. In

34  U.S. BANCORP  

addition, the mortgage lending and homebuilding industries
    continued to experience increased levels of stress. With respect
    to residential homes, inventory levels approximated a 9.5 month
    supply at the end of 2007, up from 4.5 months in the third
    quarter of 2005. Median home prices, which peaked in mid-2006,
    have declined across most domestic markets with more severe
    price reductions in California and the Northeast and Southeast
    regions.

The decline in residential home values and rising interest rates
    through September 2007 began to have a significant adverse
    impact on residential mortgage loans. While residential mortgage
    delinquencies have been increasing, these adverse market
    conditions particularly affected sub-prime borrowers. In August
    2007, the securitization markets began to experience significant
    liquidity disruptions as investor confidence in the credit
    quality of asset-backed securitization programs began to
    decline. During the fourth quarter of 2007, certain asset-backed
    commercial paper programs and other structured investment
    vehicles have been unable to remarket their commercial paper
    creating further deterioration in the capital markets. In
    response to these economic factors, the Federal Reserve
    Bank s monetary policies changed in September 2007. Since
    that time, the Federal Reserve Bank has decreased the target
    Federal Funds interest rate several times from its high of
    5.25 percent to a rate of 3.00 percent at
    January 31, 2008, in an effort to improve liquidity in the
    capital markets and investor confidence. Currently, there is
    heightened concern that the domestic economy may experience a
    recession over the next several quarters. As a result of this
    expectation, the equity markets have experienced significant
    volatility.

In addition to economic factors, changes in regulations and
    legislation can have an impact on the credit performance of the
    loan portfolios. Beginning in 2005, the Company implemented
    higher minimum balance payment requirements for its credit card
    customers in response to industry guidance issued by the banking
    regulatory agencies. This industry guidance was provided to
    minimize the likelihood that minimum balance payments would not
    be sufficient to cover interest, fees and a portion of the
    principal balance of a credit card loan resulting in negative
    amortization, or increasing account balances. Also, new
    bankruptcy legislation was enacted in October 2005, making it
    more difficult for borrowers to have their debts forgiven during
    bankruptcy proceedings. As a result of the changes in bankruptcy
    laws, the levels of consumer and business bankruptcy filings
    increased dramatically in the fourth quarter of 2005 and
    declined in early 2006 to levels that were a third of average
    bankruptcy filings during 2004 and early 2005. While consumer
    bankruptcies have increased since early 2006, bankruptcy filings
    in the fourth quarter of 2007 approximated only 50 percent
    to 60 percent of pre-2005 levels. In response to the recent
    sub-prime lending and market disruption issues, regulators and
    legislators have encouraged mortgage servicers to implement
    restructuring programs to enable borrowers to continue loan
    repayments and dampen the impact of interest rates on homeowners.

Credit
    Diversification    
      The Company manages its
    credit risk, in part, through diversification of its loan
    portfolio. As part of its normal business activities, it offers
    a broad array of traditional commercial lending products and
    specialized products such as asset-based lending, commercial
    lease financing, agricultural credit, warehouse mortgage
    lending, commercial real estate, health care and correspondent
    banking. The Company also offers an array of retail lending
    products including credit cards, retail leases, home equity,
    revolving credit, lending to students and other consumer loans.
    These retail credit products are primarily offered through the
    branch office network, home mortgage and loan production
    offices, indirect distribution channels, such as automobile
    dealers, and a consumer finance division. The Company monitors
    and manages the portfolio diversification by industry, customer
    and geography. Table 6 provides information with respect to the
    overall product diversification and changes in the mix during
    2007.

The commercial portfolio reflects the Company s focus on
    serving small business customers, middle market and larger
    corporate businesses throughout its 24-state banking region, as
    well as large national customers. The commercial loan portfolio
    is diversified among various industries with somewhat higher
    concentrations in consumer products and services, financial
    services, commercial services and supplies, capital goods
    (including manufacturing and commercial construction-related
    businesses), property management and development and
    agricultural industries. Additionally, the commercial portfolio
    is diversified across the Company s geographical markets
    with 74.2 percent of total commercial loans within the
    24-state banking region. Credit relationships outside of the
    Company s banking region are reflected within the corporate
    banking, mortgage banking, auto dealer and leasing businesses
    focusing on large national customers and specifically targeted
    industries. Loans to mortgage banking customers are primarily
    warehouse lines which are collateralized with the underlying
    mortgages. The Company regularly monitors its mortgage
    collateral position to manage its risk exposure. Table 8
    provides a summary of significant industry groups and geographic
    locations of commercial loans outstanding at December 31, 2007
    and 2006.

The commercial real estate portfolio reflects the Company s
    focus on serving business owners within its geographic footprint
    as well as regional and national investment-based real estate
    owners. At December 31, 2007, the Company had commercial
    real estate loans of

U.S. BANCORP  35  

$29.2 billion, or 19.0 percent of total loans,
    compared with $28.6 billion at December 31, 2006.
    Within commercial real estate loans, different property types
    have varying degrees of credit risk. Table 9 provides a summary
    of the significant property types and geographical locations of
    commercial real estate loans outstanding at December 31,
    2007 and 2006. At December 31, 2007, approximately
    35.4 percent of the commercial real estate loan portfolio
    represented business owner-occupied properties that tend to
    exhibit credit risk characteristics similar to the middle market
    commercial loan portfolio. Generally, the investment-based real
    estate mortgages are diversified among various property types
    with somewhat higher concentrations in office and retail
    properties. While investment-based commercial real estate
    continues to perform well with relatively strong occupancy
    levels and cash flows, these categories of loans can be
    adversely impacted during a rising rate environment. During
    2007, the Company continued to reduce its level of exposure to
    homebuilders, given the stress in the homebuilding industry
    sector. Beginning in mid-2006, construction financing of
    condominium projects was significantly curtailed, given the
    deterioration in unit pricing in several regions of the country.
    From a geographical perspective, the Company s commercial
    real estate portfolio is generally well diversified. However, at
    December 31, 2007, the Company had 19.8 percent of its
    portfolio within California, which has experienced higher
    delinquency levels and credit quality deterioration due to
    excess home inventory levels and declining valuations. Credit
    losses may increase within this portfolio. Included in
    commercial real estate at year end 2007 was approximately
    $.9 billion in loans related to land held for development
    and $2.6 billion of loans related to residential and
    commercial acquisition and development properties. These loans
    are subject to quarterly monitoring for changes in local market
    conditions due to a higher credit risk profile. Acquisition and
    development loans continued to perform well, despite a slow down
    in the housing market and softening of demand. The commercial
    real estate portfolio is diversified across the Company s
    geographical markets with 91.4 percent of total commercial
    real estate loans outstanding at December 31, 2007, within
    the 24-state banking region.

The Company s retail lending business utilizes several
    distinct business processes and channels to originate retail
    credit, including traditional branch lending, indirect lending,
    portfolio acquisitions and a consumer finance division. Each
    distinct underwriting and origination activity manages unique
    credit risk characteristics and prices its loan production
    commensurate with the differing risk profiles. Within Consumer
    Banking, U.S. Bank Consumer Finance ( USBCF ), a
    division of the Company, participates in substantially all
    facets of the Company s consumer lending activities. USBCF
    specializes in serving channel-specific and alternative lending
    markets in residential mortgages, home equity and installment
    loan financing. USBCF manages loans originated through a broker
    network, correspondent relationships and U.S. Bank branch
    offices. Generally, loans managed by the Company s consumer
    finance division exhibit higher credit risk characteristics, but
    are priced commensurate with the differing risk profile.

Residential mortgages represent an important financial product
    for consumer customers of the Company and are originated through
    the Company s branches, loan production offices, a
    wholesale network of originators and the consumer finance
    division. With respect to residential mortgages originated
    through these channels, the Company may either retain the loans
    on its balance sheet or sell its interest in the balances into
    the secondary market while retaining the servicing rights and
    customer relationships. Utilizing the secondary markets enables
    the Company to effectively reduce its credit and other
    asset/liability risks. For residential mortgages that are
    retained in the Company s portfolio, credit risk is also
    diversified by geography and by monitoring loan-to-values during
    the underwriting process.

The following table provides summary information of the
    loan-to-values of residential mortgages by distribution channel
    and type at December 31, 2007:

Note:
    loan-to-values determined as of the date of origination and
    consider mortgage  insurance, as applicable.  

Within the consumer finance division approximately
    $3.3 billion, or 33.5 percent of that division,
    represents residential mortgages to customers that may be
    defined as sub-prime borrowers. Of these loans,
    34.0 percent had a loan-to-value of less than or equal to
    80 percent of the origination amount, while
    24.9 percent had loan-to-values of over 80 percent
    through 90 percent and 39.1 percent had loan-to-values
    of over 90 percent through 100 percent.

36  U.S. BANCORP  

Table
    13       DELINQUENT
    LOAN RATIOS AS A PERCENT OF ENDING LOAN BALANCES

(a)

Delinquent
    loan ratios exclude advances made pursuant to servicing
    agreements to Government National Mortgage Association
    ( GNMA ) mortgage pools whose repayments are insured
    by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the
    Department of Veterans Affairs. Including the guaranteed
    amounts, the ratio of residential mortgages 90 days or more
    past due was 3.78 percent, 3.08 percent,
    4.35 percent, 5.19 percent and 6.07 percent at
    December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively.   

The following table provides further information on residential
    mortgages for the consumer finance division:

In addition to residential mortgages, the consumer finance
    division had $.9 billion of home equity and second mortgage
    loans to customers that may be defined as sub-prime borrowers at
    December 31, 2007. Including residential mortgages, and
    home equity and second mortgage loans, the total amount of loans
    to customers that may be defined as sub-prime borrowers,
    represented only 1.7 percent of total assets of the Company
    at December 31, 2007. The Company does not have any
    residential mortgages whose payment schedule would cause
    balances to increase over time.

The retail loan portfolio principally reflects the
    Company s focus on consumers within its footprint of
    branches and certain niche lending activities that are
    nationally focused. Within the Company s retail loan
    portfolio approximately 77.4 percent of the credit card
    balances relate to bank branch, co-branded and affinity programs
    that generally experience better credit quality performance than
    portfolios generated through national direct mail programs.

Table 10 provides a geographical summary of the residential
    mortgage and retail loan portfolios.

U.S. BANCORP  37  

Loan
    Delinquencies     Trends
    in delinquency ratios represent an indicator, among other
    considerations, of credit risk within the Company s loan
    portfolios. The entire balance of an account is considered
    delinquent if the minimum payment contractually required to be
    made is not received by the specified date on the billing
    statement. The Company measures delinquencies, both including
    and excluding nonperforming loans, to enable comparability with
    other companies. Advances made pursuant to servicing agreements
    to Government National Mortgage Association ( GNMA )
    mortgage pools whose repayments of principal and interest are
    substantially insured by the Federal Housing Administration or
    guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs are excluded
    from delinquency statistics. In addition, under certain
    situations, a retail customer s account may be re-aged to
    remove it from delinquent status. Generally, the intent of a
    re-aged account is to assist customers who have recently
    overcome temporary financial difficulties, and have demonstrated
    both the ability and willingness to resume regular payments. To
    qualify for re-aging, the account must have been open for at
    least one year and cannot have been re-aged during the preceding
    365 days. An account may not be re-aged more than two times
    in a five-year period. To qualify for re-aging, the customer
    must also have made three regular minimum monthly payments
    within the last 90 days. In addition, the Company may
    re-age the retail account of a customer who has experienced
    longer-term financial difficulties and apply modified,
    concessionary terms and conditions to the account. Such
    additional re-ages are limited to one in a five-year period and
    must meet the qualifications for re-aging described above. All
    re-aging strategies must be independently approved by the
    Company s credit administration function and are limited to
    credit card and credit line accounts. Commercial loans are not
    subject to re-aging policies.

Accruing loans 90 days or more past due totaled
    $584 million at December 31, 2007, compared with
    $349 million at December 31, 2006, and
    $253 million at December 31, 2005. The increase in
    90 day delinquent loans from December 31, 2006, to
    December 31, 2007, was primarily related to residential
    mortgages, credit cards and home equity loans. These loans were
    not included in nonperforming assets and continue to accrue
    interest because they are adequately secured by collateral,
     and/or  are
    in the process of collection and are reasonably expected to
    result in repayment or restoration to current status. The ratio
    of 90 day delinquent loans to total loans was
    .38 percent at December 31, 2007, compared with
    .24 percent at December 31, 2006.

To monitor credit risk associated with retail loans, the Company
    also monitors delinquency ratios in the various stages of
    collection, including nonperforming status. The following table
    provides summary delinquency information for residential
    mortgages and retail loans:

38  U.S. BANCORP  

While delinquency ratios have increased, the accelerating trend
    in residential and retail delinquency ratios has occurred
    primarily within the portfolios originated by the consumer
    finance division.

Within these product categories, the following table provides
    information on delinquent and nonperforming loans as a percent
    of ending loan balances, by channel:

Within the consumer finance division at December 31, 2007,
    approximately $227 million and $89 million of these
    delinquent and nonperforming residential mortgages and other
    retail loans, respectively, were to customers that may be
    defined as sub-prime borrowers, compared with $105 million
    and $50 million, respectively at December 31, 2006.

The Company expects the accelerating trends in delinquencies to
    continue during 2008 as residential home valuations continue to
    decline and economic factors affect the consumer sectors.

Restructured
    Loans Accruing Interest
          On a
     case-by-case 
    basis, management determines whether an account that experiences
    financial difficulties should be modified as to its interest
    rate or repayment terms to maximize the Company s
    collection of its balance. Loans restructured at a rate equal to
    or greater than that of a new loan with comparable risk at the
    time the contract is modified are excluded from restructured
    loans once repayment performance, in accordance with the
    modified agreement, has been demonstrated over several payment
    cycles. Loans that have interest rates reduced below comparable
    market rates remain classified as restructured loans; however,
    interest income is accrued at the reduced rate as long as the
    customer complies with the revised terms and conditions.

In late 2007, the Company began implementing a mortgage loan
    restructuring program for certain qualifying borrowers. In
    general, borrowers with sub-prime credit quality, that are
    current in their repayment status, will be allowed to retain the
    lower of their existing interest rate or the market interest
    rate as of their interest reset date. The following table
    provides a summary of restructured loans that continue to accrue
    interest:

Restructured loans that accrue interest were higher at
    December 31, 2007, compared with December 31, 2006,
    reflecting the impact of restructurings for certain residential
    mortgage customers in light of current economic conditions. The
    Company expects this trend to continue during 2008 as
    residential home valuations continue to decline and certain
    borrowers take advantage of the Company s mortgage loan
    restructuring programs.

Nonperforming
    Assets     The level of
    nonperforming assets represents another indicator of the
    potential for future credit losses. Nonperforming assets include
    nonaccrual loans, restructured loans not performing in
    accordance with modified terms, other real estate and other
    nonperforming assets owned by the Company. Interest payments
    collected from assets on nonaccrual status are typically applied
    against the principal balance and not recorded as income.

U.S. BANCORP  39  

At December 31, 2007, total nonperforming assets were
    $690 million, compared with $587 million at year-end
    2006 and $644 million at year-end 2005. The ratio of total
    nonperforming assets to total loans and other real estate was
    .45 percent at December 31, 2007, compared with
    .41 percent and .47 percent at the end of 2006 and
    2005, respectively. The $103 million increase in total
    nonperforming assets in 2007 primarily reflected higher levels
    of nonperforming loans resulting from stress in residential
    construction, associated homebuilding industries and financial
    services companies. Partially offsetting the increase in total
    nonperforming loans, was a decrease in nonperforming loans in
    manufacturing and transportation industry sectors within the
    commercial loan portfolio. Other real estate included in
    nonperforming assets was $111 million at December 31,
    2007, compared with $95 million at December 31, 2006,
    and was primarily related to properties that the Company has
    taken ownership of that once secured residential mortgages and
    home equity and second mortgage loan balances. Other real estate
    assets were also higher in 2007 due to higher residential
    mortgage loan foreclosures as consumers experienced financial
    difficulties given inflationary factors, changing interest rates
    and other current economic conditions. The following table
    provides an analysis of other real estate owned
    ( OREO ) as a percent of their related loan balances,
    including further detail for

Table
    14       NONPERFORMING
    ASSETS (a)

Changes
    In Nonperforming Assets  

(a)

Throughout
    this document, nonperforming assets and related ratios do not
    include accruing loans 90 days or more past due.   

(b)

Excludes
    $102 million and $83 million at December 31, 2007
    and 2006, respectively, of foreclosed GNMA loans which continue
    to accrue interest.   

(c)

Charge-offs
    exclude actions for certain card products and loan sales that
    were not classified as nonperforming at the time the charge-off
    occurred.   

(d)

Residential
    mortgage information excludes changes related to residential
    mortgages serviced by others.   

40  U.S. BANCORP  

residential mortgages and home equity and second mortgage loan
    balances by geographical location:

Within other real estate in the table above, approximately
    $61 million at December 31, 2007, and $41 million
    at December 31, 2006, were from portfolios defined as
    sub-prime.

The Company expects nonperforming assets to increase moderately
    over the next several quarters due to continued stress in
    residential mortgages and residential construction.

The $57 million decrease in total nonperforming assets in
    2006, as compared with 2005, reflected decreases in
    nonperforming commercial, residential mortgages and retail
    loans, partially offset by an increase in other real estate
    assets as a result of taking more ownership of residential
    properties. The decrease in nonperforming commercial loans in
    2006 was also broad-based across most industry sectors within
    the commercial loan portfolio. The decrease in nonperforming
    retail loans during 2006 was primarily due to the run-off of
    nonaccrual accounts from a discontinued workout program for
    customers having financial difficulties meeting recent minimum
    balance payment requirements.

Included in nonperforming loans were restructured loans of
    $17 million and $38 million at December 31, 2007
    and 2006, respectively. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the
    Company had no commitments to lend additional funds under
    restructured loans. Restructured loans performing under the
    restructured terms beyond a specified timeframe are reported as
     Restructured Loans Accruing Interest. 

Analysis of
    Loan Net Charge-Offs
          Total loan net
    charge-offs were $792 million in 2007, compared with
    $544 million in 2006 and $685 million in 2005. The
    ratio of total loan net charge-offs to average loans was
    .54 percent in 2007, compared with .39 percent in 2006
    and .52 percent in 2005. The year-over-year increase in net
    charge-offs in 2007, compared with 2006, was due primarily to an
    anticipated increase in consumer charge-offs, primarily related
    to credit cards, and somewhat higher commercial loan net
    charge-offs. In addition, net charge-offs during 2006 reflected
    the beneficial impact of bankruptcy legislation that went into
    effect in the fourth quarter of 2005.

Commercial and commercial real estate loan net charge-offs for
    2007 were $159 million (.21 percent of average loans
    outstanding), compared with $88 million (.12 percent
    of average loans outstanding) in 2006 and $90 million
    (.13 percent of average loans outstanding) in 2005. The
    year-over-year increase in net charge-offs primarily reflected
    higher levels of nonperforming loans and delinquencies within
    these portfolios, especially residential homebuilding and
    related industry sectors. Given the continuing stress in the
    homebuilding and commercial home supplier industry, the Company
    expects commercial and commercial real estate net charge-offs to
    continue to increase moderately over the next several quarters.
    The decrease in commercial and commercial real estate loan net
    charge-offs in 2006 compared with 2005, reflected lower gross
    charge-offs, partially offset by a lower level of recoveries.

Retail loan net charge-offs in 2007 were $572 million
    (1.17 percent of average loans outstanding), compared with
    $415 million (.92 percent of average loans
    outstanding) in 2006 and $559 million (1.30 percent of
    average loans outstanding) in 2005. The increase in retail loan
    net charge-offs in 2007, compared with 2006, reflected growth in
    the credit card and installment loan portfolios of
    25.4 percent and 11.2 percent, respectively. It also
    reflected higher retail loan delinquency ratios, compared with
    the prior year. In addition, net charge-offs for 2006 reflected
    the beneficial impact of bankruptcy legislation changes that
    occurred in the fourth quarter of 2005. The Company anticipates
    higher delinquency levels in the retail portfolios and that the
    trend in retail net charge-offs will accelerate, but remain in a
    manageable range during 2008. The decrease in retail loan net
    charge-offs in 2006, compared with 2005, reflected the impact of
    the bankruptcy legislation enacted in the fourth quarter of 2005
    and improved retail portfolio performance.

U.S. BANCORP  41  

Table
    15       NET
    CHARGE-OFFS AS A PERCENT OF AVERAGE LOANS OUTSTANDING

The following table provides an analysis of net charge-offs as a
    percent of average loans outstanding managed by the consumer
    finance division, compared with other retail loans:

(a)

Consumer
    Finance category included credit originated and managed by
    USBCF, as well as home equity and second mortgages with a
    loan-to-value greater than 100 percent that were originated
    in the branches.   

Within the consumer finance division, the Company originates
    loans to customers that may be defined as sub-prime borrowers.
    The following table provides further information on net
    charge-offs as a percent of average loans outstanding for this
    division:

Analysis and
    Determination of the Allowance for Credit Losses
        The allowance for
    loan losses provides coverage for probable and estimable losses
    inherent in the Company s loan and lease portfolio.
    Management evaluates the allowance each quarter to determine
    that it is adequate to cover these inherent losses. The
    evaluation of each element and the overall allowance is based on
    a continuing assessment of problem loans, recent loss experience
    and other factors, including regulatory guidance and economic
    conditions. Because business processes and credit risks
    associated with unfunded credit commitments are essentially the
    same as for loans, the Company utilizes similar processes to
    estimate its liability for unfunded credit commitments, which is
    included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
    Both the allowance for loan losses and the liability for
    unfunded credit commitments are included in the Company s
    analysis of credit losses.

At December 31, 2007, the allowance for credit losses was
    $2,260 million (1.47 percent of loans), compared with
    an allowance of $2,256 million (1.57 percent of loans)
    at December 31, 2006, and $2,251 million
    (1.65 percent of loans) at December 31, 2005. The
    ratio of the allowance for credit losses to nonperforming loans
    was 406 percent at December 31, 2007, compared with
    480 percent and 414 percent at December 31, 2006
    and 2005, respectively. The ratio of the allowance for credit
    losses to loan net charge-offs at December 31, 2007, was
    285 percent, compared with 415 percent and
    329 percent at December 31, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. Management determined that the allowance for
    credit losses was adequate at December 31, 2007.

Several factors were taken into consideration in evaluating the
    allowance for credit losses at December 31, 2007, including
    the risk profile of the portfolios, loan net charge-offs during
    the period, the level of nonperforming

42  U.S. BANCORP  

Table
    16       SUMMARY
    OF ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES

assets, accruing loans 90 days or more past due,
    delinquency ratios and changes in restructured loan balances
    compared with December 31, 2006. Management also considered
    the uncertainty related to certain industry sectors, and the
    extent of credit exposure to specific borrowers within the
    portfolio. In addition, concentration risks associated with
    commercial

U.S. BANCORP  43  

Table 17
        
       ELEMENTS
    OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES

real estate and the mix of loans, including credit cards, loans
    originated through the consumer finance division and residential
    mortgages balances, and their relative credit risks were
    evaluated. Finally, the Company considered current economic
    conditions that might impact the portfolio. Management
    determines the allowance that is required for specific loan
    categories based on relative risk characteristics of the loan
    portfolio. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its methods
    for determining the allowance for each element of the portfolio
    and makes enhancements considered appropriate. Table 17 shows
    the amount of the allowance for credit losses by portfolio
    category.

Regardless of the extent of the Company s analysis of
    customer performance, portfolio trends or risk management
    processes, certain inherent but undetected losses are probable
    within the loan portfolios. This is due to several factors,
    including inherent delays in obtaining information regarding a
    customer s financial condition or changes in their unique
    business conditions, the judgmental nature of individual loan
    evaluations, collateral assessments and the interpretation of
    economic trends. Volatility of economic or customer-specific
    conditions affecting the identification and estimation of losses
    from larger non-homogeneous credits and the sensitivity of
    assumptions utilized to establish allowances for homogeneous
    groups of loans, loan portfolio concentrations, and other
    subjective considerations are among other factors. Because of
    these subjective factors, the process utilized to determine each
    element of the allowance for credit losses by specific loan
    category has some imprecision. As such, the Company estimates a
    range of inherent losses in the portfolio based on statistical
    analyses and management judgment. A statistical analysis
    attempts to measure the extent of imprecision and other
    uncertainty by determining the volatility of losses over time,
    across loan categories. Also, management judgmentally considers
    loan concentrations, risks associated with specific industries,
    the stage of the business cycle, economic conditions and other
    qualitative factors. In 2007, this element of the allowance was
    specifically assigned to each portfolio type to better reflect
    the Company s risk in the specific portfolios. In prior
    years, this element of the allowance was separately disclosed as
     allowance available for other factors .

The allowance recorded for commercial and commercial real estate
    loans is based, in part, on a regular review of individual
    credit relationships. The Company s risk rating process is
    an integral component of the methodology utilized to determine
    these elements of the allowance for credit losses. An allowance
    for credit losses is established for pools of commercial and
    commercial real estate loans and unfunded commitments based on
    the risk ratings assigned. An analysis of the migration of
    commercial and commercial real estate loans and actual loss
    experience throughout the business cycle is conducted quarterly
    to assess the exposure for credits with similar risk
    characteristics. In addition to its risk rating process, the
    Company separately analyzes the carrying value of impaired loans
    to determine whether the carrying value is less than or equal to
    the appraised collateral value or the present value of expected
    cash flows. Based on this analysis, an allowance for credit
    losses may be specifically established for impaired loans. The
    allowance established for commercial

44  U.S. BANCORP  

and commercial real estate loan portfolios, including impaired
    commercial and commercial real estate loans, was
    $1,264 million at December 31, 2007, compared with
    $955 million and $929 million at December 31,
    2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in the allowance for
    commercial and commercial real estate loans of $309 million
    at December 31, 2007, compared with December 31, 2006,
    reflected the impact of growth in the portfolios and the change
    in the process of allocating the allowance for credit losses to
    the specific loan portfolios during 2007, partially offset by a
    reduction in net inherent loss rates.

The allowance recorded for the residential mortgages and retail
    loan portfolios is based on an analysis of product mix, credit
    scoring and risk composition of the portfolio, loss and
    bankruptcy experiences, economic conditions and historical and
    expected delinquency and charge-off statistics for each
    homogenous group of loans. Based on this information and
    analysis, an allowance was established approximating a rolling
    twelve-month estimate of net charge-offs. The allowance
    established for residential mortgages was $131 million at
    December 31, 2007, compared with $58 million and
    $39 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. The increase in the allowance for the residential
    mortgages portfolio year-over-year was driven by portfolio
    growth, deterioration in the resale value of real estate
    collateral due to the housing market and the change in the
    process of allocating the allowance for credit losses to the
    specific loan portfolios during 2007. The allowance established
    for retail loans was $865 million at December 31,
    2007, compared with $542 million and $558 million at
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in
    the allowance for the retail portfolio in 2007 reflected
    foreclosures in the home equity portfolio, growth in the credit
    card and other retail portfolios and the change in the process
    of allocating the allowance for credit losses to the specific
    loan portfolios during 2007.

Although the Company determines the amount of each element of
    the allowance separately and this process is an important credit
    management tool, the entire allowance for credit losses is
    available for the entire loan portfolio. The actual amount of
    losses incurred can vary significantly from the estimated
    amounts.

Residual Value
    Risk Management    The
    Company manages its risk to changes in the residual value of
    leased assets through disciplined residual valuation setting at
    the inception of a lease, diversification of its leased assets,
    regular residual asset valuation reviews and monitoring of
    residual value gains or losses upon the disposition of assets.
    Commercial lease originations are subject to the same
    well-defined underwriting standards referred to in the
     Credit Risk Management  section which includes an
    evaluation of the residual risk. Retail lease residual risk is
    mitigated further by originating longer-term vehicle leases and
    effective end-of-term marketing of off-lease vehicles. Also, to
    reduce the financial risk of potential changes in vehicle
    residual values, the Company maintains residual value insurance.
    The catastrophic insurance maintained by the Company provides
    for the potential recovery of losses on individual vehicle sales
    in an amount equal to the difference between:
    (a) 105 percent or 110 percent of the average
    wholesale auction price for the vehicle at the time of sale and
    (b) the vehicle residual value specified by the Automotive
    Lease Guide (an authoritative industry source) at the inception
    of the lease. The potential recovery is calculated for each
    individual vehicle sold in a particular policy year and is
    reduced by any gains realized on vehicles sold during the same
    period. The Company will receive claim proceeds under this
    insurance program if, in the aggregate, there is a net loss for
    such period. In addition, the Company obtains separate residual
    value insurance for all vehicles at lease inception where end of
    lease term settlement is based solely on the residual value of
    the individual leased vehicles. Under this program, the
    potential recovery is computed for each individual vehicle sold
    and does not allow the insurance carrier to offset individual
    determined losses with gains from other leases. This individual
    vehicle coverage is included in the calculation of minimum lease
    payments when making the capital lease assessment. To reduce the
    risk associated with collecting insurance claims, the Company
    monitors the financial viability of the insurance carrier based
    on insurance industry ratings and available financial
    information.

Included in the retail leasing portfolio was approximately
    $3.8 billion of retail leasing residuals at
    December 31, 2007, compared with $4.3 billion at
    December 31, 2006. The Company monitors concentrations of
    leases by manufacturer and vehicle  make and model. 
    As of December 31, 2007, vehicle lease residuals related to
    sport utility vehicles were 42.2 percent of the portfolio
    while upscale and mid-range vehicle classes represented
    approximately 23.1 percent and 13.9 percent,
    respectively. At year-end 2007, the largest vehicle-type
    concentration represented approximately 7.8 percent of the
    aggregate residual value of the vehicles in the portfolio. No
    other vehicle-type exceeded five percent of the aggregate
    residual value of the portfolio. Because retail residual
    valuations tend to be less volatile for longer-term leases,
    relative to the estimated residual at inception of the lease,
    the Company actively manages lease origination production to
    achieve a longer-term portfolio. At December 31, 2007, the
    weighted-average origination term of the portfolio was
    49 months, compared with 50 months at
    December 31, 2006. During the past several years, new
    vehicles sales volumes experienced strong growth driven by
    manufacturer incentives, consumer spending levels and strong
    economic conditions. In 2007, sales of new cars have softened

U.S. BANCORP  45  

somewhat relative to a year ago. In part, this is due to
    manufacturers reducing sales incentives to consumers, as well as
    the overall general weakening of the economy. Current
    expectations are that sales of new vehicles will trend downward
    in 2008. Given that manufacturers  inventories of vehicles
    have declined somewhat during this period, this trend in sales
    should provide support of residual valuations. With respect to
    used vehicles, wholesale values for automobiles during 2004 and
    2005 performed better than wholesale values for trucks resulting
    in car prices becoming somewhat inflated and truck prices
    declining over this period. This has led to a shift in the
    comparative performance of these two segments, resulting in car
    values experiencing a decrease of .9 percent in 2007, while
    truck values have experienced an improvement of 1.1 percent
    over the same timeframe. The overall stability in the used car
    marketplace combined with the mix of the Company s lease
    residual portfolio have caused the exposure to retail lease
    residual impairments to be relatively stable relative to a year
    ago.

At December 31, 2007, the commercial leasing portfolio had
    $660 million of residuals, compared with $636 million
    at December 31, 2006. At year-end 2007, lease residuals
    related to trucks and other transportation equipment were
    26.6 percent of the total residual portfolio. Railcars
    represented 17.5 percent of the aggregate portfolio, while
    business and office equipment and aircraft were
    16.7 percent and 12.9 percent, respectively. No other
    significant concentrations of more than 10 percent existed
    at December 31, 2007. In 2007, residual values in general
    remained stable or were favorable. The transportation industry
    residual values improved for marine, rail and aircraft.

Operational Risk
    Management    Operational
    risk represents the risk of loss resulting from the
    Company s operations, including, but not limited to, the
    risk of fraud by employees or persons outside the Company, the
    execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors
    relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of
    the internal control system and compliance requirements and
    business continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss
    also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a
    result of an operational deficiency or as a result of
    noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse
    business decisions or their implementation, and customer
    attrition due to potential negative publicity.

The Company operates in many different businesses in diverse
    markets and relies on the ability of its employees and systems
    to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is
    inherent in all business activities, and the management of this
    risk is important to the achievement of the Company s
    objectives. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control
    system, improper operation of systems or improper
    employees  actions, the Company could suffer financial
    loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation.

The Company manages operational risk through a risk management
    framework and its internal control processes. Within this
    framework, the Corporate Risk Committee ( Risk
    Committee ) provides oversight and assesses the most
    significant operational risks facing the Company within its
    business lines. Under the guidance of the Risk Committee,
    enterprise risk management personnel establish policies and
    interact with business lines to monitor significant operating
    risks on a regular basis. Business lines have direct and primary
    responsibility and accountability for identifying, controlling,
    and monitoring operational risks embedded in their business
    activities. Business managers maintain a system of controls with
    the objective of providing proper transaction authorization and
    execution, proper system operations, safeguarding of assets from
    misuse or theft, and ensuring the reliability of financial and
    other data. Business managers ensure that the controls are
    appropriate and are implemented as designed.

Each business line within the Company has designated risk
    managers. These risk managers are responsible for, among other
    things, coordinating the completion of ongoing risk assessments
    and ensuring that operational risk management is integrated into
    business decision-making activities. Business continuation and
    disaster recovery planning is also critical to effectively
    managing operational risks. Each business unit of the Company is
    required to develop, maintain and test these plans at least
    annually to ensure that recovery activities, if needed, can
    support mission critical functions including technology,
    networks and data centers supporting customer applications and
    business operations. The Company s internal audit function
    validates the system of internal controls through risk-based,
    regular and ongoing audit procedures and reports on the
    effectiveness of internal controls to executive management and
    the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

Customer-related business conditions may also increase
    operational risk, or the level of operational losses in certain
    transaction processing business units, including merchant
    processing activities. Ongoing risk monitoring of customer
    activities and their financial condition and operational
    processes serve to mitigate customer-related operational risk.
    Refer to Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further discussion on merchant processing.

While the Company believes that it has designed effective
    methods to minimize operational risks, there is no absolute
    assurance that business disruption or operational losses would
    not occur in the event of a disaster. On an ongoing basis,
    management makes process changes and investments to enhance its
    systems of internal controls and business continuity and
    disaster recovery plans.

Interest Rate
    Risk Management    In the
    banking industry, changes in interest rates are a significant
    risk that can

46  U.S. BANCORP  

impact earnings, market valuations and safety and soundness of
    an entity. To minimize the volatility of net interest income and
    the market value of assets and liabilities, the Company manages
    its exposure to changes in interest rates through asset and
    liability management activities within guidelines established by
    its Asset Liability Policy Committee ( ALPC ) and
    approved by the Board of Directors. ALPC has the responsibility
    for approving and ensuring compliance with ALPC management
    policies, including interest rate risk exposure. The Company
    uses Net Interest Income Simulation Analysis and Market Value of
    Equity Modeling for measuring and analyzing consolidated
    interest rate risk.

Net Interest
    Income Simulation Analysis
          One of the primary
    tools used to measure interest rate risk and the effect of
    interest rate changes on net interest income is simulation
    analysis. The monthly analysis incorporates substantially all of
    the Company s assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet
    instruments, together with forecasted changes in the balance
    sheet and assumptions that reflect the current interest rate
    environment. Through this simulation, management estimates the
    impact on net interest income of a 200 basis point upward
    or downward gradual change of market interest rates over a
    one-year period. The simulation also estimates the effect of
    immediate and sustained parallel shifts in the yield curve of
    50 basis points as well as the effect of immediate and
    sustained flattening or steepening of the yield curve. This
    simulation includes assumptions about how the balance sheet is
    likely to be affected by changes in loan and deposit growth.
    Assumptions are made to project interest rates for new loans and
    deposits based on historical analysis, management s outlook
    and repricing strategies. These assumptions are validated on a
    periodic basis. A sensitivity analysis is provided for key
    variables of the simulation. The results are reviewed by ALPC
    monthly and are used to guide asset/liability management
    strategies.

The table below summarizes the interest rate risk of net
    interest income based on forecasts over the succeeding
    12 months. At December 31, 2007, based on the rate
    environment at that time, the Company s overall interest
    rate risk position was liability sensitive to changes in
    interest rates. In January 2008, the Federal Reserve Bank
    lowered the Federal Funds rate by 125 basis points to 3.00
    percent, which resulted in the overall interest rate risk
    position of the Company being slightly liability sensitive. The
    Company manages its interest rate risk position by holding
    assets on the balance sheet with desired interest rate risk
    characteristics, implementing certain pricing strategies for
    loans and deposits and through the selection of derivatives and
    various funding and investment portfolio strategies. The Company
    manages the overall interest rate risk profile within policy
    limits. ALPC policy limits the estimated change in net interest
    income to 4.0 percent of forecasted net interest income
    over the succeeding 12 months. At December 31, 2007,
    and 2006, the Company was within its ALPC policy.

Market Value
    of Equity Modeling
        The Company also
    utilizes the market value of equity as a measurement tool in
    managing interest rate sensitivity. The market value of equity
    measures the degree to which the market values of the
    Company s assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet
    instruments will change given a change in interest rates. ALPC
    policy limits the change in market value of equity in a
    200 basis point parallel rate shock to 15 percent of
    the market value of equity assuming interest rates at
    December 31, 2007. The up 200 basis point scenario
    resulted in a 7.6 percent decrease in the market value of
    equity at December 31, 2007, compared with a
    6.7 percent decrease at December 31, 2006. The down
    200 basis point scenario resulted in a 3.5 percent
    decrease in the market value of equity at December 31,
    2007, compared with a 1.8 percent decrease at
    December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the
    Company was within its ALPC policy.

The valuation analysis is dependent upon certain key assumptions
    about the nature of assets and liabilities with non-contractual
    maturities. Management estimates the average life and rate
    characteristics of asset and liability accounts based upon
    historical analysis and management s expectation of rate
    behavior. These assumptions are validated on a periodic basis. A
    sensitivity analysis of key variables of the valuation analysis
    is provided to ALPC monthly and is used to guide asset/liability
    management strategies. The Company also uses duration of equity
    as a measure of interest rate risk. The duration of equity is a
    measure of the net market value sensitivity of the assets,
    liabilities and derivative positions of the Company. The
    duration of assets was 1.8 years at December 31, 2007
    and 2006. The duration of liabilities was 1.9 years at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006. At December 31, 2007, the
    duration of equity was 1.2 years, compared with
    1.6 years at December 31, 2006. The duration of equity
    measures shows that sensitivity of the market value of equity of
    the Company was liability sensitive to changes in interest rates.

Use of
    Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate and Other Risks
      In the ordinary course of business, the Company
    enters into

SENSITIVITY
    OF NET INTEREST INCOME

U.S. BANCORP  47  

derivative transactions to manage its interest rate, prepayment,
    credit, price and foreign currency risks ( asset and
    liability management positions ) and to accommodate the
    business requirements of its customers ( customer-related
    positions ). To manage its interest rate risk, the Company
    may enter into interest rate swap agreements and interest rate
    options such as caps and floors. Interest rate swaps involve the
    exchange of fixed-rate and variable-rate payments without the
    exchange of the underlying notional amount on which the interest
    payments are calculated. Interest rate caps protect against
    rising interest rates while interest rate floors protect against
    declining interest rates. In connection with its mortgage
    banking operations, the Company enters into forward commitments
    to sell mortgage loans related to fixed-rate mortgage loans held
    for sale and fixed-rate mortgage loan commitments. The Company
    also acts as a seller and buyer of interest rate contracts and
    foreign exchange rate contracts on behalf of customers. The
    Company minimizes its market and liquidity risks by taking
    similar offsetting positions.

All interest rate derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting
    are recorded at fair value as other assets or liabilities on the
    balance sheet and are designated as either  fair
    value  or  cash flow  hedges. The Company
    performs an assessment, both at inception and quarterly
    thereafter, when required, to determine whether these
    derivatives are highly effective in offsetting changes in the
    value of the hedged items. Hedge ineffectiveness for both cash
    flow and fair value hedges is recorded in noninterest income.
    Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair
    value hedges, and changes in the fair value of the hedged items,
    are recorded in earnings. Changes in the fair value of
    derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in other
    comprehensive income until income from the cash flows of the
    hedged items is realized. Customer-related interest rate swaps,
    foreign exchange rate contracts, and all other derivative
    contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recorded
    at fair value and resulting gains or losses are recorded in
    trading account gains or losses or mortgage banking revenue.
    Gains or losses on customer-related derivative positions were
    not material in 2007.

By their nature, derivative instruments are subject to market
    risk. The Company does not utilize derivative instruments for
    speculative purposes. Of the Company s $57.5 billion
    of total notional amount of asset and liability management
    positions at December 31, 2007, $24.4 billion was
    designated as either fair value or cash flow hedges or net
    investment hedges of foreign operations. The cash flow hedge
    derivative positions are interest rate swaps that hedge the
    forecasted cash flows from the underlying variable-rate debt.
    The fair value hedges are primarily interest rate swaps that
    hedge the change in fair value related to interest rate changes
    of underlying fixed-rate debt and subordinated obligations.

The Company uses forward commitments to sell residential
    mortgage loans to hedge its interest rate risk related to
    residential mortgage loans held-for-sale. The Company commits to
    sell the loans at specified prices in a future period, typically
    within 90 days. The Company is exposed to interest rate
    risk during the period between issuing a loan commitment and the
    sale of the loan into the secondary market. In connection with
    its mortgage banking operations, the Company held
    $2.8 billion of forward commitments to sell mortgage loans
    and $3.7 billion of unfunded mortgage loan commitments at
    December 31, 2007, that were derivatives in accordance with
    the provisions of the Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative
    Instruments and Hedge Activities.  The unfunded mortgage
    loan commitments are reported at fair value as options in
    Table 18. The Company also utilizes U.S. Treasury
    futures, options on U.S. Treasury futures contracts,
    interest rate swaps and forward commitments to buy residential
    mortgage loans to economically hedge the change in fair value of
    its residential MSRs.

Derivative instruments are also subject to credit risk
    associated with counterparties to the derivative contracts.
    Credit risk associated with derivatives is measured based on the
    replacement cost should the counterparties with contracts in a
    gain position to the Company fail to perform under the terms of
    the contract. The Company manages this risk through
    diversification of its derivative positions among various
    counterparties, requiring collateral agreements with
    credit-rating thresholds, entering into master netting
    agreements in certain cases and entering into interest rate swap
    risk participation agreements. These agreements transfer the
    credit risk related to interest rate swaps from the Company to
    an unaffiliated third-party. The Company also provides credit
    protection to third-parties with risk participation agreements,
    for a fee, as part of a loan syndication transaction.

At December 31, 2007, the Company had $219 million in
    accumulated other comprehensive income related to realized and
    unrealized losses on derivatives classified as cash flow hedges.
    Unrealized gains and losses are reflected in earnings when the
    related cash flows or hedged transactions occur and offset the
    related performance of the hedged items. The estimated amount to
    be reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income into
    earnings during the next 12 months is a loss of
    $106 million.

The change in the fair value of all other asset and liability
    management derivative positions attributed to hedge
    ineffectiveness recorded in noninterest income was not material
    for 2007.

48  U.S. BANCORP  

Table 18
        
       DERIVATIVE
    POSITIONS

ASSET
    AND LIABILITY MANAGEMENT POSITIONS  

The Company enters into derivatives to protect its net
    investment in certain foreign operations. The Company uses
    forward commitments to sell specified amounts of certain foreign
    currencies to hedge fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
    rates. The net amount of gains or losses included

U.S. BANCORP  49  

in the cumulative translation adjustment for 2007 was not
    material.

Table 18 summarizes information on the Company s derivative
    positions at December 31, 2007. Refer to Notes 1 and
    19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
    significant accounting policies and additional information
    regarding the Company s use of derivatives.

Market Risk
    Management     In addition
    to interest rate risk, the Company is exposed to other forms of
    market risk as a consequence of conducting normal trading
    activities. These trading activities principally support the
    risk management processes of the Company s customers
    including their management of foreign currency and interest rate
    risks. The Company also manages market risk of non-trading
    business activities, including its MSRs and loans held-for-sale.
    Value at Risk ( VaR ) is a key measure of market risk
    for the Company. Theoretically, VaR represents the maximum
    amount that the Company has placed at risk of loss, with a
    ninety-ninth percentile degree of confidence, to adverse market
    movements in the course of its risk taking activities.

VaR modeling of trading activities is subject to certain
    limitations. Additionally, it should be recognized that there
    are assumptions and estimates associated with VaR modeling, and
    actual results could differ from those assumptions and
    estimates. The Company mitigates these uncertainties through
    regular monitoring of trading activities by management and other
    risk management practices, including stop-loss and position
    limits related to its trading activities. Stress-test models are
    used to provide management with perspectives on market events
    that VaR models do not capture.

The Company establishes market risk limits, subject to approval
    by the Company s Board of Directors. The Company s
    market valuation risk for trading and non-trading positions, as
    estimated by the VaR analysis, was $1 million and
    $15 million, respectively, at December 31, 2007,
    compared with $1 million and $30 million,
    respectively, at December 31, 2006. The Company s VaR
    limit was $45 million at December 31, 2007.

During the second half of 2007, the financial markets
    experienced significant turbulence as the impact of mortgage
    delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures adversely affected
    investor confidence in a broad range of investment sectors and
    asset classes. Given that the Company s owned investments
    are principally U.S. Treasury securities, notes issued by
    government-sponsored agencies or privately issued securities
    with high investment grade credit ratings, the Company believes
    these securities are not other-than-temporarily impaired as of
    December 31, 2007, despite being subject to changes in
    market valuations. As problems in the sub-prime mortgage market
    emerged, certain securities backed by mortgages experienced both
    credit and liquidity issues, and investors became hesitant to
    purchase many types of asset-backed securities, even those with
    little or no exposure to sub-prime mortgages. The money market
    funds managed by an affiliate of the Company, FAF Advisors, held
    certain investments with exposure to the liquidity and credit
    issues of the asset-backed securities markets. In the fourth
    quarter of 2007, the Company purchased certain securities at
    amortized cost from certain money market funds managed by FAF
    Advisors to maintain investor confidence in the funds. Given the
    nature and credit ratings of the remaining holdings of these
    money market funds, the Company does not intend to purchase
    additional investments from the funds.

As a result of purchasing these structured investments, the
    Company recognized valuation losses of $107 million in its
    financial statements in the fourth quarter of 2007. The Company
    continues to monitor changes in market conditions, including the
    underlying credit quality and performance of assets
    collateralizing these structured investments. Given the nature
    of these securities and widening credit spreads for similar
    assets, further deterioration in value is likely to occur over
    the next few quarters and may result in the recognition of
    further impairment by the Company.

Liquidity Risk
    Management    ALPC
    establishes policies, as well as analyzes and manages liquidity,
    to ensure that adequate funds are available to meet normal
    operating requirements in addition to unexpected customer
    demands for funds, such as high levels of deposit withdrawals or
    loan demand, in a timely and cost-effective manner. The most
    important factor in the preservation of liquidity is maintaining
    public confidence that facilitates the retention and growth of a
    large, stable supply of core deposits and wholesale funds.
    Ultimately, public confidence is generated through profitable
    operations, sound credit quality and a strong capital position.
    The Company s performance in these areas has enabled it to
    develop a large and reliable base of core funding within its
    market areas and in domestic and global capital markets.
    Liquidity management is viewed from long-term and short-term
    perspectives, as well as from an asset and liability
    perspective. Management monitors liquidity through a regular
    review of maturity profiles, funding sources, and loan and
    deposit forecasts to minimize funding risk.

The Company maintains strategic liquidity and contingency plans
    that are subject to the availability of asset liquidity in the
    balance sheet. Monthly, ALPC reviews the Company s ability
    to meet funding requirements due to adverse business events.
    These funding needs are then matched with specific asset-based
    sources to ensure sufficient funds are available. Also,
    strategic liquidity policies require diversification of
    wholesale funding sources to avoid concentrations in any one
    market source. Subsidiary companies are members of various
    Federal Home Loan Banks

50  U.S. BANCORP  

Table 19
        
       DEBT
    RATINGS  

Dominion 

Standard   

Bond 

Moody s

Poor s

Fitch

Rating Service

U.S. Bancorp 

Short-term borrowings

F1+

R-1 (middle

)

Senior debt and medium-term notes

Aa2

AA

AA-

AA

Subordinated debt

Aa3

AA-

A+

AA (low

)

Preferred stock

A1

A+

A+

Commercial paper

P-1

A-1+

F1+

R-1 (middle

)

U.S. Bank National Association 

Short-term time deposits

P-1

A-1+

F1+

R-1 (high

)

Long-term time deposits

Aa1

AA+

AA

AA (high

)

Bank notes

Aa1/P-1

AA+/A-1+

AA-/F1+

AA (high

)

Subordinated debt

Aa2

AA

A+

AA

Commercial paper

P-1

A-1+

F1+

R-1 (high

)

( FHLB ) that provide a source of funding through FHLB
    advances. The Company maintains a Grand Cayman branch for
    issuing eurodollar time deposits. The Company also issues
    commercial paper through its Canadian branch. In addition, the
    Company establishes relationships with dealers to issue national
    market retail and institutional savings certificates and
    short-term and medium-term bank notes. The Company s
    subsidiary banks also have significant correspondent banking
    networks and corporate accounts. Accordingly, the Company has
    access to national fed funds, funding through repurchase
    agreements and sources of stable, regionally-based certificates
    of deposit and commercial paper.

The Company s ability to raise negotiated funding at
    competitive prices is influenced by rating agencies  views
    of the Company s credit quality, liquidity, capital and
    earnings. On February 14, 2007, Standard  
    Poor s Ratings Services upgraded the Company s credit
    ratings to
     AA/A-1+.  At
    December 31, 2007, the credit ratings outlook for the
    Company was considered  Positive  by Fitch and
     Stable  by Standard   Poor s Ratings
    Services, Moody s Investors Service and Dominion Bond
    Ratings Service. The debt ratings noted in Table 19 reflect the
    rating agencies  recognition of the Company s
    sector-leading core earnings performance and lower credit risk
    profile.

The parent company s routine funding requirements consist
    primarily of operating expenses, dividends paid to shareholders,
    debt service, repurchases of common stock and funds used for
    acquisitions. The parent company obtains funding to meet its
    obligations from dividends collected from its subsidiaries and
    the issuance of debt securities.

Under United States Securities and Exchange Commission rules,
    the parent company is classified as a  well-known seasoned
    issuer,  which allows it to file a registration statement
    that does not have a limit on issuance capacity.
     Well-known seasoned issuers  generally include those
    companies with outstanding common securities with a market value
    of at least $700 million held by non-affiliated parties or
    those companies that have issued at least $1 billion in
    aggregate principal amount of non-convertible securities, other
    than common equity, in the last three years. However, the parent
    company s ability to issue debt and other securities under
    a registration statement filed with the United States Securities
    and Exchange Commission under these rules is limited by the debt
    issuance authority granted by the Company s Board of
    Directors
     and/or  ALPC
    policy.

At December 31, 2007, parent company long-term debt
    outstanding was $10.7 billion, compared with
    $11.4 billion at December 31, 2006. The
    $.7 billion decrease was primarily due to repayments of
    $2.6 billion of convertible senior debentures and
    $1.4 billion of maturities of subordinated and medium-term
    notes, partially offset by the issuances of $3.0 billion of
    convertible senior debentures and $.5 billion of junior
    subordinated debentures. Total parent company debt scheduled to
    mature in 2008 is $.5 billion. These debt obligations may
    be met through medium-term note and capital security issuances
    and dividends from subsidiaries, as well as from parent company
    cash and cash equivalents.

Federal banking laws regulate the amount of dividends that may
    be paid by banking subsidiaries without prior approval. The
    amount of dividends available to the parent company from its
    banking subsidiaries after meeting the regulatory capital
    requirements for well-capitalized banks was approximately
    $1.1 billion at December 31, 2007. For further
    information, see Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements     
    Off-balance sheet arrangements include any contractual
    arrangement to which an unconsolidated entity is a party, under
    which the Company has an obligation to provide credit or
    liquidity enhancements or market risk support. Off-balance sheet
    arrangements include

U.S. BANCORP  51  

Table 20
        
       CONTRACTUAL
    OBLIGATIONS  

(a)

Unrecognized
    tax positions of $296 million at December 31, 2007,
    are excluded as the Company cannot make a reasonably reliable
    estimate of the period of cash settlement with the respective
    taxing authority.   

(b)

In
    the banking industry, interest-bearing obligations are
    principally utilized to fund interest-bearing assets. As such,
    interest charges on related contractual obligations were
    excluded from reported amounts as the potential cash outflows
    would have corresponding cash inflows from interest-bearing
    assets.   

(c)

Amounts
    only include obligations related to the unfunded non-qualified
    pension plans and post-retirement medical plan.   

certain defined guarantees, asset securitization trusts and
    conduits. Off-balance sheet arrangements also include any
    obligation under a variable interest held by an unconsolidated
    entity that provides financing, liquidity, credit enhancement or
    market risk support.

In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into an
    array of commitments to extend credit, letters of credit and
    various forms of guarantees that may be considered off-balance
    sheet arrangements. The nature and extent of these arrangements
    are provided in Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Asset securitizations and conduits may represent a source of
    funding for the Company through off-balance sheet structures.
    Credit, liquidity, operational and legal structural risks exist
    due to the nature and complexity of asset securitizations and
    other off-balance sheet structures. ALPC regularly monitors the
    performance of each off-balance sheet structure in an effort to
    minimize these risks and ensure compliance with the requirements
    of the structures. The Company uses its credit risk management
    processes to evaluate the credit quality of underlying assets
    and regularly forecasts cash flows to evaluate any potential
    impairment of retained interests. Also, regulatory guidelines
    require consideration of asset securitizations in the
    determination of risk-based capital ratios. The Company does not
    rely significantly on off-balance sheet arrangements for
    liquidity or capital resources.

The Company sponsors an off-balance sheet conduit, a qualified
    special purpose entity ( QSPE ), to which it
    transferred high-grade investment securities, funded by the
    issuance of commercial paper. Because QSPEs are exempt from
    consolidation under the provisions of Financial Accounting
    Standards Board Interpretation No. 46R
    ( FIN 46R ),  Consolidation of Variable
    Interest Entities , the Company does not consolidate the
    conduit structure in its financial statements. The conduit held
    assets of $1.2 billion at December 31, 2007, and
    $2.2 billion at December 31, 2006. These investment
    securities include primarily (i) private label asset-backed
    securities, which are insurance  wrapped  by mono-line
    insurance companies and (ii) government agency
    mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage
    obligations. The conduit had commercial paper liabilities of
    $1.2 billion at December 31, 2007, and
    $2.2 billion at December 31, 2006. The Company
    provides a liquidity facility to the conduit. Utilization of the
    liquidity facility would be triggered if the conduit is unable
    to, or does not, issue commercial paper to fund its assets. A
    liability for the estimate of the potential risk of loss for the
    Company as the liquidity facility provider is recorded on the
    balance sheet in other liabilities. The liability is adjusted
    downward over time as the underlying assets pay down with the
    offset recognized as other noninterest income. The liability for
    the liquidity facility was $2 million and $10 million
    at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition,
    the Company recorded its retained residual interest in the
    investment securities conduit of $2 million and
    $13 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

Capital
    Management    The Company
    is committed to managing capital for maximum shareholder benefit
    and maintaining strong protection for depositors and creditors.
    The Company has targeted returning 80 percent of earnings
    to its common shareholders through a combination of dividends
    and share repurchases. During 2007, the Company returned
    111 percent of earnings. The Company continually assesses
    its business risks and capital position. The Company also
    manages its capital to exceed regulatory capital requirements
    for well-capitalized bank holding companies. To achieve these
    capital goals, the Company employs a variety of capital
    management tools, including dividends, common share repurchases,
    and the issuance of subordinated debt and other capital
    instruments. Total shareholders  equity was
    $21.0 billion at December 31,

52  U.S. BANCORP  

Table 21
        
    REGULATORY
    CAPITAL RATIOS

2007, compared with $21.2 billion at December 31,
    2006. The decrease was the result of share repurchases and
    dividends, partially offset by corporate earnings.

On December 11, 2007, the Company increased its dividend
    rate per common share by 6.25 percent, from $.40 per
    quarter to $.425 per quarter. On December 12, 2006, the
    Company increased its dividend rate per common share by
    21.2 percent, from $.33 per quarter to $.40 per quarter.

On December 21, 2004, the Board of Directors approved and
    announced an authorization to repurchase 150 million shares
    of common stock during the next 24 months. On
    August 3, 2006, the Company announced that the Board of
    Directors approved an authorization to repurchase
    150 million shares of common stock through
    December 31, 2008. This new authorization replaced the
    December 21, 2004, share repurchase program. During 2006,
    the Company repurchased 62 million shares under the 2004
    authorization and 28 million shares under the 2006
    authorization. The average price paid for all shares repurchased
    in 2006 was $31.35 per share. In 2007, the Company repurchased
    58 million shares under the 2006 authorization. The average
    price paid for shares repurchased in 2007 was $34.84 per share.
    For a complete analysis of activities impacting
    shareholders  equity and capital management programs, refer
    to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

The following table provides a detailed analysis of all shares
    repurchased under the 2006 authorization during the fourth
    quarter of 2007:

U.S. BANCORP  53  

Banking regulators define minimum capital requirements for banks
    and financial services holding companies. These requirements are
    expressed in the form of a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio,
    total risk-based capital ratio, and Tier 1 leverage ratio.
    The minimum required level for these ratios is 4.0 percent,
    8.0 percent, and 4.0 percent, respectively. The
    Company targets its regulatory capital levels, at both the bank
    and bank holding company level, to exceed the
     well-capitalized  threshold for these ratios of
    6.0 percent, 10.0 percent, and 5.0 percent,
    respectively. All regulatory ratios, at both the bank and bank
    holding company level, continue to be in excess of stated
     well-capitalized  requirements.

Table 21 provides a summary of capital ratios as of
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, including Tier 1 and total
    risk-based capital ratios, as defined by the regulatory
    agencies. During 2008, the Company expects to target capital
    level ratios of 8.5 percent Tier 1 capital and
    12.0 percent total risk-based capital on a consolidated
    basis.

FOURTH QUARTER
    SUMMARY

The Company reported net income of $942 million for the
    fourth quarter of 2007, or $.53 per diluted common share,
    compared with $1,194 million, or $.66 per diluted common
    share, for the fourth quarter of 2006. Return on average assets
    and return on average common equity were 1.63 percent and
    18.3 percent, respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2007,
    compared with returns of 2.18 percent and
    23.2 percent, respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2006.
    Several significant items impacted the Company s quarterly
    results, including a $215 million Visa Charge and
    $107 million for valuation losses related to securities
    purchased from certain money market funds managed by an
    affiliate. The cumulative impact of these charges in the fourth
    quarter of 2007 was approximately $.13 per diluted common share.
    The Company s results for the fourth quarter of 2006
    included a $52 million gain related to the sale of a 401(k)
    recordkeeping business, a $22 million debt prepayment
    charge and a reduction in tax liabilities related to the
    resolution of various income tax examinations.

Table 22
        
       FOURTH
    QUARTER
    RESULTS  

(a)

Interest
    and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis
    utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent.   

(b)

Computed
    as noninterest expense divided by the sum of net interest income
    on a taxable-equivalent basis and noninterest income excluding
    securities gains (losses), net.   

54  U.S. BANCORP  

Total net revenue, on a taxable-equivalent basis for the fourth
    quarter of 2007, was $116 million (3.4 percent) higher
    than the fourth quarter of 2006, reflecting a 4.0 percent
    increase in net interest income and a 2.8 percent increase
    in noninterest income. Net interest income increased from a year
    ago, driven by growth in earning assets, somewhat higher credit
    spreads, an increase in yield-related loan fees and lower
    funding rates. Noninterest income growth was driven primarily by
    organic growth in fee-based revenue of 12.3 percent, muted
    somewhat by the $107 million market valuation losses
    recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007 and a $52 million
    gain recognized in the fourth quarter of 2006 related to the
    Company s sale of a 401(k) recordkeeping business.

Fourth quarter net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent
    basis was $1,763 million, compared with $1,695 million
    in the fourth quarter of 2006. Average earning assets for the
    period increased over the fourth quarter of 2006 by
    $10.6 billion (5.6 percent), primarily driven by a
    $7.8 billion (5.4 percent) increase in average loans.
    The positive impact to net interest income from the growth in
    earning assets was partially offset by a lower net interest
    margin. The net interest margin in the fourth quarter of 2007
    was 3.51 percent, compared with 3.56 percent in the
    fourth quarter of 2006, reflecting the competitive environment
    in early 2007 and declining net free funds relative to a year
    ago. The reduction in net free funds was primarily due to a
    decline in noninterest-bearing deposits, an investment in
    bank-owned life insurance, share repurchases through mid-third
    quarter of 2007 and the impact of acquisitions. An increase in
    loan fees from a year ago and improved wholesale funding rates
    partially offset these factors.

Noninterest income in the fourth quarter of 2007 was
    $1,777 million, compared with $1,729 million in the
    same period of 2006. The $48 million (2.8 percent)
    increase was driven by strong organic fee-based revenue growth,
    offset somewhat by the $107 million valuation losses
    related to securities purchased from certain money market funds
    managed by an affiliate, recognized in the fourth quarter of
    2007, and the $52 million gain on the sale of a 401(k)
    recordkeeping business recorded in the fourth quarter of 2006.
    After consideration of these factors, noninterest income grew by
    approximately 12.3 percent year-over-year. Credit and debit
    card revenue and corporate payment products revenue were higher
    in the fourth quarter of 2007 than the fourth quarter of 2006 by
    $71 million (33.8 percent) and $24 million
    (17.0 percent), respectively. The strong growth in credit
    and debit card revenue was primarily driven by an increase in
    customer accounts and higher customer transaction volumes from a
    year ago. Approximately 7.6 percent of the growth in credit
    card revenues was the result of the full year impact of a
    favorable rate change from renegotiating a contract with a
    cardholder association. Corporate payment products revenue
    growth reflected organic growth in sales volumes and card usage
    and the impact of an acquired business. Merchant processing
    services revenue was higher in the fourth quarter of 2007 than
    the same quarter a year ago by $35 million
    (14.3 percent), primarily reflecting an increase in
    customers and sales volumes. Trust and investment management
    fees increased $25 million (7.8 percent)
    year-over-year, due to core account growth and favorable equity
    market conditions. Deposit service charges grew year-over-year
    by $13 million (5.0 percent) driven by increased
    transaction-related fees and the impact of continued growth in
    net new checking accounts. Additionally, deposit account-related
    revenue, traditionally reflected in this fee category, continued
    to migrate to yield-related loan fees as customers utilize new
    consumer products. Treasury management fees increased
    $10 million (9.3 percent) due, in part, to new
    customer account growth, new product offerings and higher
    transaction volumes. Commercial products revenue increased
    $17 million (16.3 percent) year-over-year due to
    higher syndication fees and foreign exchange and commercial
    leasing revenue. Mortgage banking revenue grew $23 million
    (92.0 percent) over the prior year due to an increase in
    mortgage servicing income and production gains. These favorable
    changes in fee-based revenue were partially offset by a decline
    in other income of $167 million (78.4 percent)
    compared with the fourth quarter of 2006. The decline in other
    income was primarily due to the $107 million in valuation
    losses related to securities purchased in the fourth quarter of
    2007 from certain money market funds managed by an affiliate and
    the $52 million gain on the sale of a 401(k) defined
    contribution recordkeeping business recorded in the fourth
    quarter of 2006. This decline was partially offset by increased
    revenue from investment in bank-owned life insurance programs.
    Securities gains (losses) were lower year-over-year by
    $7 million.

Noninterest expense was $1,934 million in the fourth
    quarter of 2007, an increase of $322 million
    (20.0 percent) from the fourth quarter of 2006. The
    increase included the $215 million Visa Charge in the
    fourth quarter of 2007 and $22 million of debt prepayment
    charges recorded in the fourth quarter of 2006. Compensation
    expense was higher year-over-year by $69 million
    (11.1 percent), due to growth in ongoing bank operations
    and acquired businesses. Employee benefits expense increased
    $17 million (16.7 percent) year-over-year as higher
    medical costs were partially offset by lower pension costs. Net
    occupancy and equipment expense increased $9 million
    (5.4 percent) from the fourth quarter of 2006 primarily due
    to acquisitions and branch-based business initiatives. Postage,
    printing and

U.S. BANCORP  55  

supplies expense increased $6 million (9.0 percent)
    from the fourth quarter of 2006, due primarily to changes in
    postage rates. Other expense increased in the fourth quarter of
    2007 from the same quarter of 2006 by $236 million
    (84.6 percent), due primarily to the Visa Charge and higher
    credit-related costs for other real estate owned and loan
    collection activities. These increases were partially offset by
    debt prepayment charges recorded in the fourth quarter of 2006.

The provision for credit losses for the fourth quarter of 2007
    was $225 million, an increase of $56 million
    (33.1 percent) from the fourth quarter of 2006. The
    increase in the provision for credit losses from a year ago
    reflected growth in credit card accounts, increasing retail loan
    delinquencies and higher commercial losses. Net charge-offs in
    the fourth quarter of 2007 were $225 million, compared with
    net charge-offs of $169 million during the fourth quarter
    of 2006.

The provision for income taxes for the fourth quarter of 2007
    increased to an effective tax rate of 30.7 percent from an
    effective tax rate of 26.7 percent in the fourth quarter of
    2006. The lower tax rate in the fourth quarter of the prior year
    compared with the current quarter was primarily due to the
    resolution of federal income tax examinations for all years
    through 2004 and certain state tax examinations during the
    fourth quarter of 2006, which reduced the Company s tax
    liabilities.

LINE OF BUSINESS
    FINANCIAL REVIEW

Within the Company, financial performance is measured by major
    lines of business, which include Wholesale Banking, Consumer
    Banking, Wealth Management   Securities Services,
    Payment Services, and Treasury and Corporate Support. These
    operating segments are components of the Company about which
    financial information is available and is evaluated regularly in
    deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance.

Basis for
    Financial Presentation
       Business line results
    are derived from the Company s business unit profitability
    reporting systems by specifically attributing managed balance
    sheet assets, deposits and other liabilities and their related
    income or expense. Goodwill and other intangible assets are
    assigned to the lines of business based on the mix of business
    of the acquired entity. Within the Company, capital levels are
    evaluated and managed centrally; however, capital is allocated
    to the operating segments to support evaluation of business
    performance. Business lines are allocated capital on a
    risk-adjusted basis considering economic and regulatory capital
    requirements. Generally, the determination of the amount of
    capital allocated to each business line includes credit and
    operational capital allocations following a Basel II
    regulatory framework adjusted for regulatory Tier 1
    leverage requirements. Interest income and expense is determined
    based on the assets and liabilities managed by the business
    line. Because funding and asset liability management is a
    central function, funds transfer-pricing methodologies are
    utilized to allocate a cost of funds used or credit for funds
    provided to all business line assets and liabilities,
    respectively, using a matched funding concept. Also, each
    business unit is allocated the taxable-equivalent benefit of
    tax-exempt products. The residual effect on net interest income
    of asset/liability management activities is included in Treasury
    and Corporate Support. Noninterest income and expenses directly
    managed by each business line, including fees, service charges,
    salaries and benefits, and other direct revenues and costs are
    accounted for within each segment s financial results in a
    manner similar to the consolidated financial statements.
    Occupancy costs are allocated based on utilization of facilities
    by the lines of business. Generally, operating losses are
    charged to the line of business when the loss event is realized
    in a manner similar to a loan charge-off. Noninterest expenses
    incurred by centrally managed operations or business lines that
    directly support another business line s operations are
    charged to the applicable business line based on its utilization
    of those services primarily measured by the volume of customer
    activities, number of employees or other relevant factors. These
    allocated expenses are reported as net shared services expense
    within noninterest expense. Certain activities that do not
    directly support the operations of the lines of business or for
    which the line of business is not considered financially
    accountable in evaluating their performance are not charged to
    the lines of business. The income or expenses associated with
    these corporate activities is reported within the Treasury and
    Corporate Support line of business. The provision for credit
    losses within the Wholesale Banking, Consumer Banking, Wealth
    Management   Securities Services and Payment Services
    lines of business is based on net charge-offs, while Treasury
    and Corporate Support reflects the residual component of the
    Company s total consolidated provision for credit losses
    determined in accordance with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States. Income taxes are assessed to each
    line of business at a standard tax rate with the residual tax
    expense or benefit to arrive at the consolidated effective tax
    rate included in Treasury and Corporate Support.

Designations, assignments and allocations change from time to
    time as management systems are enhanced, methods of evaluating
    performance or product lines change or business segments are
    realigned to better respond to the Company s diverse
    customer base. During 2007, certain organization and methodology
    changes were made and,

56  U.S. BANCORP  

accordingly, 2006 results were restated and presented on a
    comparable basis. Due to organizational and methodology changes,
    the Company s basis of financial presentation differed in
    2005. The presentation of comparative business line results for
    2005 is not practical and has not been provided.

Wholesale Banking
       Wholesale Banking offers
    lending, equipment finance and small-ticket leasing, depository,
    treasury management, capital markets, foreign exchange,
    international trade services and other financial services to
    middle market, large corporate, commercial real estate, and
    public sector clients. Wholesale Banking contributed
    $1,093 million of the Company s net income in 2007, a
    decrease of $100 million (8.4 percent), compared with
    2006. The decrease was primarily driven by lower total net
    revenue, higher total noninterest expense and an increase in the
    provision for credit losses.

Total net revenue decreased $72 million (2.6 percent)
    in 2007, compared with 2006. Net interest income, on a
    taxable-equivalent basis, decreased $81 million
    (4.2 percent) in 2007, compared with 2006, driven by
    tighter credit spreads and a decline in average
    noninterest-bearing deposit balances as business customers
    managed their liquidity to fund business growth or to generate
    higher returns by investing excess funds in interest-bearing
    deposit and sweep products. The decrease was partially offset by
    growth in average loan balances of $1.3 billion
    (2.6 percent) and the margin benefit of deposits. The
    increase in average loans was primarily driven by commercial
    loan growth during 2007 offset somewhat by declining commercial
    real estate loan balances. The $9 million
    (1.0 percent) increase in noninterest income in 2007,
    compared with 2006, was due to increases in treasury management
    and commercial products revenue. These favorable increases in
    wholesale banking fees were partially offset by market-related
    valuation losses in the second half of 2007.

Noninterest expense increased $39 million
    (4.2 percent) in 2007 compared with 2006, primarily as a
    result of increases in personnel expenses related to investments
    in select business units. The provision for credit losses
    increased $47 million to $51 million in 2007, compared
    with $4 million in 2006. The unfavorable change was due to
    an increase in gross charge-offs driven by higher levels of
    nonperforming loans from a year ago. Nonperforming assets were
    $334 million at December 31, 2007, compared with
    $241 million at December 31, 2006, representing
    .60 percent of loans outstanding at December 31, 2007,
    compared with .47 percent of loans outstanding at
    December 31, 2006. The increase in nonperforming loans
    during the year is principally related to continued stress in
    residential homebuilding and related industry sectors. Refer to
    the  Corporate Risk Profile  section for further
    information on factors impacting the credit quality of the
    commercial and commercial real estate loan portfolios.

Consumer Banking
       Consumer Banking
    delivers products and services through banking offices,
    telephone servicing and sales, on-line services, direct mail and
    ATMs. It encompasses community banking, metropolitan banking,
    in-store banking, small business banking, consumer lending,
    mortgage banking, consumer finance, workplace banking, student
    banking and
     24-hour 
    banking. Consumer Banking contributed $1,746 million of the
    Company s net income in 2007, a decrease of
    $45 million (2.5 percent), compared with 2006. Within
    the Consumer Banking business, the retail banking division
    contributed $1,641 million of the total net income in 2007,
    or a decrease of 4.7 percent, compared with 2006. Mortgage
    banking contributed $105 million of the business
    line s net income in 2007, an increase of 52.2 percent
    from the prior year.

Total net revenue increased $148 million (2.7 percent)
    in 2007, compared with 2006. Net interest income, on a
    taxable-equivalent basis, increased $24 million
    (.6 percent) in 2007, compared with 2006. The
    year-over-year increase in net interest income was due to growth
    in average loans of $3.1 billion (4.3 percent), higher
    loan fees and the funding benefit of deposits. Partially
    offsetting these increases were reduced spreads on commercial
    and retail loans due to competitive pricing within the
    Company s markets and lower noninterest bearing deposit
    balances. The increase in average loan balances reflected strong
    growth in all loan categories, with the largest increase in
    retail loans. The favorable change in retail loans was
    principally driven by an increase in installment and home equity
    loans, partially offset by a reduction in retail leasing
    balances due to customer demand for installment loan products
    and pricing competition. The year-over-year decrease in average
    deposits reflected a reduction in savings and
    noninterest-bearing deposit products, offset somewhat by growth
    in time deposits and interest checking. Average time deposit
    balances grew $1.5 billion (7.8 percent) in 2007,
    compared with the prior year, as a portion of
    noninterest-bearing and money market balances migrated to
    fixed-rate time deposit products. Average savings balances
    declined $1.7 billion (8.0 percent) in 2007, compared
    with 2006, principally related to a decrease in money market
    account balances. Fee-based noninterest income increased
    $124 million (7.3 percent) in 2007, compared with
    2006, driven by growth in mortgage banking revenue and an
    increase in deposit service charges. Mortgage banking revenue
    grew due to gains from stronger loan production and higher
    servicing income in 2007, as well as the impact of adopting fair
    value accounting for MSRs in the first quarter of 2006. The
    growth in deposit services charges was muted somewhat from past
    experience as deposit account-related revenue traditionally
    reflected in

U.S. BANCORP  57  

deposit service charges, continued to migrate to yield-related
    loan fees as customers utilized new consumer products.

Total noninterest expense increased $138 million
    (5.5 percent) in 2007, compared with the prior year. The
    increase was primarily attributable to higher compensation and
    employee benefits expense which reflected business investments
    in customer service and various promotional activities,
    including further deployment of the PowerBank initiative.
    Additionally, the increase included the net addition of 23
    in-store and 23 traditional branches during 2007 and higher
    credit related costs associated with collection activities and
    other real estate owned.

The provision for credit losses increased $82 million
    (33.1 percent) in 2007, compared with 2006. The increase
    was attributable to higher net charge-offs driven by an increase
    in nonperforming assets of 15.5 percent from a year ago. As
    a percentage of average loans outstanding, net charge-offs
    increased to .44 percent in 2007, compared with
    .35 percent in 2006. Commercial and commercial real estate
    loan net charge-offs increased $13 million and retail loan
    and residential mortgage charge-offs increased $69 million
    in 2007, compared with 2006. Nonperforming assets were
    $327 million at December 31, 2007, compared with
    $283 million at December 31, 2006, representing
    .45 percent of loans outstanding at December 31, 2007,
    compared with .40 percent of loans outstanding at
    December 31, 2006. Refer to the  Corporate Risk
    Profile  section for further information on factors
    impacting the credit quality of the loan portfolios.

Wealth
    Management   Securities Services
       Wealth
    Management   Securities Services provides trust,
    private

Table
    23       LINE
    OF BUSINESS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE

* Not
    meaningful  

58  U.S. BANCORP  

banking, financial advisory, investment management, retail
    brokerage services, insurance, custody and mutual fund servicing
    through five businesses: Wealth Management, Corporate Trust, FAF
    Advisors, Institutional Trust and Custody and
    Fund Services. During 2007, Wealth Management  
    Securities Services contributed $592 million of the
    Company s net income, a decrease of $5 million
    (.8 percent) compared with 2006. The decrease was primarily
    attributed to valuation losses related to securities purchased
    from certain money market funds managed by FAF Advisors. The
    decrease was partially offset by core account fee growth and
    improved equity market conditions relative to a year ago.

Total net revenue increased $4 million (.2 percent) in
    2007, compared with 2006. Net interest income, on a
    taxable-equivalent basis, decreased $6 million
    (1.2 percent) from the prior year. The decrease in net
    interest income was due to the unfavorable impacts of deposit
    pricing and tightening credit spreads, partially offset by
    earnings from deposit growth. The increase in total deposits was
    attributable to growth in noninterest-bearing deposits, interest
    checking and time deposits, principally due to acquired
    businesses and growth related to broker-dealer and institutional
    trust customers. Noninterest income increased $10 million
    (.7 percent) in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily driven
    by core account fee growth and favorable equity market
    conditions. Strong organic growth of 8.1 percent was
    substantially offset by the $107 million of valuation
    losses realized by this line of business in 2007.

Total noninterest expense increased $9 million
    (.9 percent) in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to
    the completion of certain acquisition integration activities.

U.S. BANCORP  59  

Payment Services
       Payment Services
    includes consumer and business credit cards, stored-value cards,
    debit cards, corporate and purchasing card services, consumer
    lines of credit, ATM processing and merchant processing. Payment
    Services are highly inter-related with banking products and
    services of the other lines of business and rely on access to
    the bank subsidiary s settlement network, lower cost
    funding available to the Company, cross-selling opportunities
    and operating efficiencies. Payment Services contributed
    $1,075 million of the Company s net income in 2007, or
    an increase of $109 million (11.3 percent), compared
    with 2006. The increase was due to growth in total net revenue,
    driven by loan growth and higher transaction volumes, partially
    offset by an increase in total noninterest expense and a higher
    provision for credit losses.

Total net revenue increased $437 million
    (13.5 percent) in 2007, compared with 2006. The 2007
    increase in net interest income of $80 million
    (12.2 percent), compared with the prior year, was due to
    growth in higher yielding retail credit card loan balances,
    partially offset by the margin impact of merchant receivables
    and growth in corporate payment card balances. The increase in
    fee-based revenue of $357 million (13.8 percent) in
    2007 was driven by organic account growth, higher sales
    transaction volumes and business expansion initiatives. Credit
    and debit card revenue was higher due to an increase in customer
    accounts and balance transfers, higher customer transaction
    volumes, a favorable rate change from renegotiating a contract
    with a cardholder association and an increase in cash advance
    and prepaid card fees from a year ago. Corporate payment
    products revenue increased, reflecting organic growth in sales
    volumes and card usage, and the impact of an acquired business.
    Merchant processing services revenue grew 14.1 percent
    domestically and 17.6 percent in the European business
    division compared with a year ago. This organic growth was due
    to an increase in the number of merchants serviced, sales
    transactions and related sales volumes and merchant equipment
    and other related fees.

Total noninterest expense increased $145 million
    (10.1 percent) in 2007, compared with 2006, due primarily
    to operating costs to support organic growth, higher collection
    costs and investments in new business initiatives, including
    costs associated with marketing programs and acquisitions.

The provision for credit losses increased $120 million
    (42.3 percent) in 2007, compared with 2006, due to higher
    net charge-offs, which reflected average retail credit card
    portfolio growth of 25.4 percent and somewhat higher
    delinquency rates from a year ago. As a percentage of average
    loans outstanding, net charge-offs were 2.72 percent in
    2007, compared with 2.26 percent in 2006.

Treasury and
    Corporate Support
       Treasury and Corporate
    Support includes the Company s investment portfolios,
    funding, capital management and asset securitization activities,
    interest rate risk management, the net effect of transfer
    pricing related to average balances and the residual aggregate
    of those expenses associated with corporate activities that are
    managed on a consolidated basis. During 2007, Treasury and
    Corporate Support recorded a net loss of $182 million,
    compared with net income in 2006 of $204 million.

Total net revenue decreased $217 million in 2007, compared
    with 2006, primarily due to a decrease in both net interest
    income and noninterest income from a year ago. The decline in
    net interest income reflected the impact of issuing higher cost
    wholesale funding to support earning asset growth. The decrease
    in noninterest income was primarily due to gains recognized in
    2006 related to the initial public offering and subsequent sale
    of equity interests in a cardholder association, trading gains
    realized related to terminating certain interest rate
    derivatives, and a gain related to the sale of a 401(k)
    recordkeeping business.

Total noninterest expense increased $351 million in 2007,
    compared with 2006. The year-over-year increase was primarily
    driven by a $330 million charge related to a contingent
    obligation for certain Visa U.S.A. Inc. litigation, including
    the settlement between Visa U.S.A. Inc and American Express
    announced in the third quarter of 2007.

The provision for credit losses for this business unit
    represents the residual aggregate of the net credit losses
    allocated to the reportable business units and the
    Company s recorded provision determined in accordance with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
    Refer to the  Corporate Risk Profile  section for
    further information on the provision for credit losses,
    nonperforming assets and factors considered by the Company in
    assessing the credit quality of the loan portfolio and
    establishing the allowance for credit losses.

Income taxes are assessed to each line of business at a
    managerial tax rate of 36.4 percent with the residual tax
    expense or benefit to arrive at the consolidated effective tax
    rate included in Treasury and Corporate Support. The
    consolidated effective tax rate of the Company was
    30.3 percent in 2007, compared with 30.8 percent in
    2006. The decrease in the effective tax rate from 2006 primarily
    reflected higher tax exempt income from investment securities
    and insurance products as well as incremental tax credits from
    affordable housing and other tax-advantaged investments.

60  U.S. BANCORP  

ACCOUNTING CHANGES

Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    discusses accounting standards adopted in the current year, as
    well as, accounting standards recently issued but not yet
    required to be adopted and the expected impact of these changes
    in accounting standards. To the extent the adoption of new
    accounting standards affects the Company s financial
    condition, results of operations or liquidity, the impacts are
    discussed in the applicable section(s) of the Management s
    Discussion and Analysis and the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING
    POLICIES

The accounting and reporting policies of the Company comply with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
    and conform to general practices within the banking industry.
    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
    make estimates and assumptions. The financial position and
    results of operations can be affected by these estimates and
    assumptions, which are integral to understanding the
    Company s financial statements. Critical accounting
    policies are those policies that management believes are the
    most important to the portrayal of the Company s financial
    condition and results, and require management to make estimates
    that are difficult, subjective or complex. Most accounting
    policies are not considered by management to be critical
    accounting policies. Several factors are considered in
    determining whether or not a policy is critical in the
    preparation of financial statements. These factors include,
    among other things, whether the estimates are significant to the
    financial statements, the nature of the estimates, the ability
    to readily validate the estimates with other information
    including third-parties or available prices, and sensitivity of
    the estimates to changes in economic conditions and whether
    alternative accounting methods may be utilized under generally
    accepted accounting principles. Management has discussed the
    development and the selection of critical accounting policies
    with the Company s Audit Committee.

Significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1 of
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Those policies
    considered to be critical accounting policies are described
    below.

Allowance for
    Credit Losses    The
    allowance for credit losses is established to provide for
    probable losses inherent in the Company s credit portfolio.
    The methods utilized to estimate the allowance for credit
    losses, key assumptions and quantitative and qualitative
    information considered by management in determining the adequacy
    of the allowance for credit losses are discussed in the
     Credit Risk Management  section.

Management s evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance
    for credit losses is often the most critical of accounting
    estimates for a banking institution. It is an inherently
    subjective process impacted by many factors as discussed
    throughout the Management s Discussion and Analysis section
    of the Annual Report. Although risk management practices,
    methodologies and other tools are utilized to determine each
    element of the allowance, degrees of imprecision exist in these
    measurement tools due in part to subjective judgments involved
    and an inherent lagging of credit quality measurements relative
    to the stage of the business cycle. Even determining the stage
    of the business cycle is highly subjective. As discussed in the
     Analysis and Determination of Allowance for Credit
    Losses  section, management considers the effect of
    imprecision and many other factors in determining the allowance
    for credit losses. If not considered, inherent losses in the
    portfolio related to imprecision and other subjective factors
    could have a dramatic adverse impact on the liquidity and
    financial viability of a bank.

Given the many subjective factors affecting the credit
    portfolio, changes in the allowance for credit losses may not
    directly coincide with changes in the risk ratings of the credit
    portfolio reflected in the risk rating process. This is in part
    due to the timing of the risk rating process in relation to
    changes in the business cycle, the exposure and mix of loans
    within risk rating categories, levels of nonperforming loans and
    the timing of charge-offs and recoveries. For example, the
    amount of loans within specific risk ratings may change,
    providing a leading indicator of improving credit quality, while
    nonperforming loans and net charge-offs continue at elevated
    levels. Also, inherent loss ratios, determined through migration
    analysis and historical loss performance over the estimated
    business cycle of a loan, may not change to the same degree as
    net charge-offs. Because risk ratings and inherent loss ratios
    primarily drive the allowance specifically allocated to
    commercial loans, the amount of the allowance for commercial and
    commercial real estate loans might decline; however, the degree
    of change differs somewhat from the level of changes in
    nonperforming loans and net charge-offs. Also, management would
    maintain an adequate allowance for credit losses by increasing
    the allowance during periods of economic uncertainty or changes
    in the business cycle.

Some factors considered in determining the adequacy of the
    allowance for credit losses are quantifiable while other factors
    require qualitative judgment. Management conducts an analysis
    with respect to the accuracy of risk ratings and the volatility
    of inherent losses, and utilizes

U.S. BANCORP  61  

this analysis along with qualitative factors, including
    uncertainty in the economy from changes in unemployment rates,
    the level of bankruptcies and concentration risks, including
    risks associated with the weakened housing market and highly
    leveraged enterprise-value credits, in determining the overall
    level of the allowance for credit losses. The Company s
    determination of the allowance for commercial and commercial
    real estate loans is sensitive to the assigned credit risk
    ratings and inherent loss rates at December 31, 2007. In
    the event that 10 percent of loans within these portfolios
    experienced downgrades of two risk categories, the allowance for
    commercial and commercial real estate would increase by
    approximately $168 million at December 31, 2007. In
    the event that inherent loss or estimated loss rates for these
    portfolios increased by 10 percent, the allowance
    determined for commercial and commercial real estate would
    increase by approximately $95 million at December 31,
    2007. The Company s determination of the allowance for
    residential and retail loans is sensitive to changes in
    estimated loss rates. In the event that estimated loss rates
    increased by 10 percent, the allowance for residential
    mortgages and retail loans would increase by approximately
    $82 million at December 31, 2007. Because several
    quantitative and qualitative factors are considered in
    determining the allowance for credit losses, these sensitivity
    analyses do not necessarily reflect the nature and extent of
    future changes in the allowance for credit losses. They are
    intended to provide insights into the impact of adverse changes
    in risk rating and inherent losses and do not imply any
    expectation of future deterioration in the risk rating or loss
    rates. Given current processes employed by the Company,
    management believes the risk ratings and inherent loss rates
    currently assigned are appropriate. It is possible that others,
    given the same information, may at any point in time reach
    different reasonable conclusions that could be significant to
    the Company s financial statements. Refer to the
     Analysis and Determination of the Allowance for Credit
    Losses  section for further information.

Estimations of
    Fair Value    A portion of
    the Company s assets and liabilities are carried at fair
    value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, with changes in fair
    value recorded either through earnings or other comprehensive
    income in accordance with applicable accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States. These include all of
    the Company s trading securities, available-for-sale
    securities, derivatives and MSRs. The estimation of fair value
    also affects loans held-for-sale, which are recorded at the
    lower of cost or fair value. The determination of fair value is
    important for certain other assets, including goodwill and other
    intangible assets, impaired loans, other real estate owned and
    other repossessed assets, that are recorded at either fair value
    or fair value less costs-to-sell when acquired, and are
    periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates.

Fair value is generally defined as the amount at which an asset
    or liability could be exchanged in a current transaction between
    willing, unrelated parties, other than in a forced or
    liquidation sale. Fair value is based on quoted market prices in
    an active market, or if market prices are not available, is
    estimated using models employing techniques such as matrix
    pricing or discounting expected cash flows. The significant
    assumptions used in the models, which include assumptions for
    interest rates, discount rates, prepayments and credit losses,
    are independently verified against observable market data where
    possible. Where observable market data is not available, the
    estimate of fair value becomes more subjective and involves a
    high degree of judgment. In this circumstance, fair value is
    estimated based on management s judgment regarding the
    value that market participants would assign to the asset or
    liability. This valuation process takes into consideration
    factors such as market illiquidity. Imprecision in estimating
    these factors can impact the amount recorded on the balance
    sheet for a particular asset or liability with related impacts
    to earnings or other comprehensive income.

Trading and available-for-sale securities are generally valued
    based on quoted market prices. However, certain securities are
    traded less actively and therefore, may not be able to be valued
    based on quoted market prices. The determination of fair value
    may require benchmarking to similar instruments or performing a
    discounted cash flow analysis using estimates of future cash
    flows and prepayment, interest and default rates. An example is
    interests held in entities collateralized by mortgage
     and/or  debt
    obligations as part of a structured investment. For more
    information on investment securities, refer to Note 4 of
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

As few derivative contracts are listed on an exchange, the
    majority of the Company s derivative positions are valued
    using valuation techniques that use readily observable market
    parameters. Certain derivatives, however, must be valued using
    techniques that include unobservable parameters. For these
    instruments, the significant assumptions must be estimated and
    therefore, are subject to judgment. These instruments are
    normally traded less actively. An example includes certain
    long-dated interest rate swaps. Table 18 provides a summary of
    the Company s derivative positions.

Mortgage
    Servicing Rights
       Mortgage servicing
    rights are capitalized as separate assets when loans are sold
    and servicing is retained or may be purchased from others. MSRs
    are initially recorded at fair value and at each subsequent
    reporting date. Because MSRs do not trade in an active

62  U.S. BANCORP  

market with readily observable prices, the Company determines
    the fair value by estimating the present value of the
    asset s future cash flows utilizing market-based prepayment
    rates, discount rates, and other assumptions validated through
    comparison to trade information, industry surveys and
    independent third party appraisals. Changes in the fair value of
    MSRs are recorded in earnings during the period in which they
    occur. Risks inherent in the MSRs valuation include higher than
    expected prepayment rates
     and/or 
    delayed receipt of cash flows. The Company may utilize
    derivatives, including futures and options contracts to mitigate
    the valuation risk. The estimated sensitivity to changes in
    interest rates of the fair value of the MSRs portfolio and the
    related derivative instruments at December 31, 2007, to an
    immediate 25 and 50 basis point downward movement in
    interest rates would be an increase of approximately
    $1 million and a decrease of approximately $8 million,
    respectively. An upward movement in interest rates at
    December 31, 2007, of 25 and 50 basis points would
    decrease the value of the MSRs and related derivative
    instruments by approximately $14 million and
    $49 million, respectively. Refer to Note 9 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
    information regarding MSRs.

Goodwill and
    Other Intangibles    The
    Company records all assets and liabilities acquired in purchase
    acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangibles, at fair
    value. Goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are not amortized
    but are subject, at a minimum, to annual tests for impairment.
    Under certain situations, interim impairment tests may be
    required if events occur or circumstances change that would more
    likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting segment
    below its carrying amount. Other intangible assets are amortized
    over their estimated useful lives using straight-line and
    accelerated methods and are subject to impairment if events or
    circumstances indicate a possible inability to realize the
    carrying amount.

The initial recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets
    and subsequent impairment analysis require management to make
    subjective judgments concerning estimates of how the acquired
    assets will perform in the future using valuation methods
    including discounted cash flow analysis. Additionally, estimated
    cash flows may extend beyond ten years and, by their nature, are
    difficult to determine over an extended timeframe. Events and
    factors that may significantly affect the estimates include,
    among others, competitive forces, customer behaviors and
    attrition, changes in revenue growth trends, cost structures,
    technology, changes in discount rates and specific industry and
    market conditions. In determining the reasonableness of cash
    flow estimates, the Company reviews historical performance of
    the underlying assets or similar assets in an effort to assess
    and validate assumptions utilized in its estimates.

In assessing the fair value of reporting units, the Company may
    consider the stage of the current business cycle and potential
    changes in market conditions in estimating the timing and extent
    of future cash flows. Also, management often utilizes other
    information to validate the reasonableness of its valuations
    including public market comparables, and multiples of recent
    mergers and acquisitions of similar businesses. Valuation
    multiples may be based on revenue, price-to-earnings and
    tangible capital ratios of comparable public companies and
    business segments. These multiples may be adjusted to consider
    competitive differences including size, operating leverage and
    other factors. The carrying amount of a reporting unit is
    determined based on the capital required to support the
    reporting unit s activities including its tangible and
    intangible assets. The determination of a reporting unit s
    capital allocation requires management judgment and considers
    many factors including the regulatory capital regulations and
    capital characteristics of comparable public companies in
    relevant industry sectors. In certain circumstances, management
    will engage a third-party to independently validate its
    assessment of the fair value of its business segments.

The Company s annual assessment of potential goodwill
    impairment was completed during the second quarter of 2007.
    Based on the results of this assessment, no goodwill impairment
    was recognized.

Income Taxes
       The Company estimates
    income tax expense based on amounts expected to be owed to
    various tax jurisdictions. Currently, the Company files tax
    returns in approximately 144 federal, state and local domestic
    jurisdictions and 13 foreign jurisdictions. The estimated income
    tax expense is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
    Accrued taxes represent the net estimated amount due or to be
    received from taxing jurisdictions either currently or in the
    future and are reported in other assets or other liabilities on
    the Consolidated Balance Sheet. In estimating accrued taxes, the
    Company assesses the relative merits and risks of the
    appropriate tax treatment considering statutory, judicial and
    regulatory guidance in the context of the tax position. Because
    of the complexity of tax laws and regulations, interpretation
    can be difficult and subject to legal judgment given specific
    facts and circumstances. It is possible that others, given the
    same information, may at any point in time reach different
    reasonable conclusions regarding the estimated amounts of
    accrued taxes.

Changes in the estimate of accrued taxes occur periodically due
    to changes in tax rates, interpretations of tax laws, the status
    of examinations being conducted by

U.S. BANCORP  63  

various taxing authorities, and newly enacted statutory,
    judicial and regulatory guidance that impact the relative merits
    and risks of tax positions. These changes, when they occur,
    affect accrued taxes and can be significant to the operating
    results of the Company. Refer to Note 18 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
    regarding income taxes.

CONTROLS AND
    PROCEDURES

Under the supervision and with the participation of the
    Company s management, including its principal executive
    officer and principal financial officer, the Company has
    evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of its
    disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange
    Act )). Based upon this evaluation, the principal executive
    officer and principal financial officer have concluded that, as
    of the end of the period covered by this report, the
    Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.

During the most recently completed fiscal quarter, there was no
    change made in the Company s internal controls over
    financial reporting (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Exchange Act) that has materially affected, or is
    reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s
    internal control over financial reporting.

The annual report of the Company s management on internal
    control over financial reporting is provided on page 65.
    The attestation report of Ernst   Young LLP, the
    Company s independent accountants, regarding the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting is
    provided on page 67.

64  U.S. BANCORP  

Report
    of Management

Responsibility for the financial statements and other
    information presented throughout this Annual Report rests with
    the management of U.S. Bancorp. The Company believes that
    the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States and present the substance of transactions based on
    the circumstances and management s best estimates and
    judgment.

In meeting its responsibilities for the reliability of the
    financial statements, management is responsible for establishing
    and maintaining an adequate system of internal control over
    financial reporting as defined by
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s
    system of internal controls is designed to provide reasonable
    assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
    the preparation of publicly filed financial statements in
    accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States.

To test compliance, the Company carries out an extensive audit
    program. This program includes a review for compliance with
    written policies and procedures and a comprehensive review of
    the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control system.
    Although control procedures are designed and tested, it must be
    recognized that there are limits inherent in all systems of
    internal control and, therefore, errors and irregularities may
    nevertheless occur. Also, estimates and judgments are required
    to assess and balance the relative cost and expected benefits of
    the controls. Projection of any evaluation of effectiveness to
    future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Board of Directors of the Company has an Audit Committee
    composed of directors who are independent of U.S. Bancorp.
    The committee meets periodically with management, the internal
    auditors and the independent accountants to consider audit
    results and to discuss internal accounting control, auditing and
    financial reporting matters.

Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s
    internal controls over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2007. In making this assessment, management
    used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission in its Internal
    Control-Integrated Framework. Based on our assessment and those
    criteria, management believes that the Company designed and
    maintained effective internal control over financial reporting
    as of December 31, 2007.

The Company s independent accountants, Ernst  
    Young LLP, have been engaged to render an independent
    professional opinion on the financial statements and issue an
    attestation report on the Company s system of internal
    control over financial reporting. Their opinion on the financial
    statements appearing on page 66 and their attestation on
    the system of internal controls over financial reporting
    appearing on page 67 are based on procedures conducted in
    accordance with auditing standards of the Public Company
    Accounting Oversight Board (United States).

U.S. BANCORP  65  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the
    Consolidated Financial Statements

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of U.S. Bancorp:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    U.S. Bancorp as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the
    related consolidated statements of income, shareholders 
    equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
    ended December 31, 2007. These financial statements are the
    responsibility of the Company s management. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
    statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of U.S. Bancorp at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, and the consolidated results of its operations
    and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
    ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
    U.S. Bancorp s internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria
    established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework
    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission and our report dated February 20, 2008
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Minneapolis, Minnesota

February 20, 2008

66  U.S. BANCORP  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of U.S. Bancorp:

We have audited U.S. Bancorp s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on
    criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
    the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria).
    U.S. Bancorp s management is responsible for
    maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting,
    and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
    over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report of
    Management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, U.S. Bancorp maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of December 31, 2007, based on the COSO criteria . 

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of U.S. Bancorp as of
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated
    statements of income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2007 and our report dated February 20,
    2008, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Minneapolis, Minnesota

February 20, 2008

U.S. BANCORP  67  

U.S. Bancorp

Consolidated
    Balance Sheet

See Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.  

68  U.S. BANCORP  

U.S. Bancorp

Consolidated
    Statement of Income

See Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.  

U.S. BANCORP  69  

U.S. Bancorp

Consolidated
    Statement of Shareholders  Equity

See Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.  

70  U.S. BANCORP  

U.S. Bancorp 
    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

See Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.  

U.S. BANCORP  71  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Note 1       SIGNIFICANT
    ACCOUNTING POLICIES

U.S. Bancorp and its subsidiaries (the  Company )
    is a multi-state financial services holding company
    headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Company provides a
    full range of financial services including lending and
    depository services through banking offices principally in
    24 states. The Company also engages in credit card,
    merchant, and ATM processing, mortgage banking, insurance, trust
    and investment management, brokerage, and leasing activities
    principally in domestic markets.

Basis of
    Presentation    The
    consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
    Company and its subsidiaries and all variable interest entities
    for which the Company is the primary beneficiary. The
    consolidation eliminates all significant intercompany accounts
    and transactions. Certain items in prior periods have been
    reclassified to conform to the current presentation.

Uses of Estimates
       The preparation of
    financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
    accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
    assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial
    statements and accompanying notes. Actual experience could
    differ from those estimates.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

Within the Company, financial performance is measured by major
    lines of business based on the products and services provided to
    customers through its distribution channels. The Company has
    five reportable operating segments:

Wholesale Banking
       Wholesale Banking offers
    lending, equipment finance and small-ticket leasing, depository,
    treasury management, capital markets, foreign exchange,
    international trade services and other financial services to
    middle market, large corporate, commercial real estate and
    public sector clients.

Consumer Banking
       Consumer Banking
    delivers products and services through banking offices,
    telephone servicing and sales, on-line services, direct mail and
    ATMs. It encompasses community banking, metropolitan banking,
    in-store banking, small business banking, consumer lending,
    mortgage banking, consumer finance, workplace banking, student
    banking and
     24-hour 
    banking.

Wealth
    Management   Securities Services
       Wealth
    Management   Securities Services provides trust,
    private banking, financial advisory, investment management,
    retail brokerage services, insurance, custody and mutual fund
    servicing through five businesses: Wealth Management, Corporate
    Trust, FAF Advisors, Institutional Trust   Custody and
    Fund Services.

Payment Services
       Payment Services
    includes consumer and business credit cards, stored-value cards,
    debit cards, corporate and purchasing card services, consumer
    lines of credit, ATM processing and merchant processing.

Treasury and
    Corporate Support
       Treasury and Corporate
    Support includes the Company s investment portfolios,
    funding, capital management and asset securitization activities,
    interest rate risk management, the net effect of transfer
    pricing related to average balances and the residual aggregate
    of those expenses associated with corporate activities that are
    managed on a consolidated basis.

Segment Results
       Accounting policies for
    the lines of business are the same as those used in preparation
    of the consolidated financial statements with respect to
    activities specifically attributable to each business line.
    However, the preparation of business line results requires
    management to establish methodologies to allocate funding costs
    and benefits, expenses and other financial elements to each line
    of business. For details of these methodologies and segment
    results, see  Basis for Financial Presentation  and
    Table 23  Line of Business Financial Performance 
    included in Management s Discussion and Analysis which is
    incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

SECURITIES

Realized gains or losses on securities are determined on a trade
    date basis based on the specific carrying value of the
    investments being sold.

Trading
    Securities    Debt and
    equity securities held for resale are classified as trading
    securities and reported at fair value. Realized gains or losses
    are reported in noninterest income.

Available-for-sale
    Securities    These
    securities are not trading securities but may be sold before
    maturity in response to changes in the Company s interest
    rate risk profile, funding needs or demand for collateralized
    deposits by public entities. Available-for-sale securities are
    carried at fair value with unrealized net gains or losses
    reported within other

72  U.S. BANCORP  

comprehensive income in shareholders  equity. When sold,
    the amortized cost of the specific securities is used to compute
    the gain or loss. Declines in fair value that are deemed
    other-than-temporary, if any, are reported in noninterest income.

Held-to-maturity
    Securities    Debt
    securities for which the Company has the positive intent and
    ability to hold to maturity are reported at historical cost
    adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of
    discounts. Declines in fair value that are deemed other than
    temporary, if any, are reported in noninterest income.

Securities
    Purchased Under Agreements to Resell and Securities Sold Under
    Agreements to Repurchase
       Securities purchased
    under agreements to resell and securities sold under agreements
    to repurchase are generally accounted for as collateralized
    financing transactions and are recorded at the amounts at which
    the securities were acquired or sold, plus accrued interest. The
    fair value of collateral received is continually monitored and
    additional collateral obtained or requested to be returned to
    the Company as deemed appropriate.

EQUITY INVESTMENTS
    IN OPERATING ENTITIES

Equity investments in public entities in which ownership is less
    than 20 percent are accounted for as available-for-sale
    securities and carried at fair value. Similar investments in
    private entities are accounted for using the cost method.
    Investments in entities where ownership interest is between
    20 percent and 50 percent are accounted for using the
    equity method with the exception of limited partnerships and
    limited liability companies where an ownership interest of
    greater than 5 percent requires the use of the equity
    method. If the Company has a voting interest greater than
    50 percent, the consolidation method is used. All equity
    investments are evaluated for impairment at least annually and
    more frequently if certain criteria are met.

LOANS

Loans are reported net of unearned income. Interest income is
    accrued on the unpaid principal balances as earned. Loan and
    commitment fees and certain direct loan origination costs are
    deferred and recognized over the life of the loan
     and/or 
    commitment period as yield adjustments.

Commitments to
    Extend Credit    Unfunded
    residential mortgage loan commitments entered into in connection
    with mortgage banking activities are considered derivatives and
    recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair
    value recorded in income. All other unfunded loan commitments
    are generally related to providing credit facilities to
    customers of the bank and are not actively traded financial
    instruments. These unfunded commitments are disclosed as
    off-balance sheet financial instruments in Note 21 in the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Allowance for
    Credit Losses    Management
    determines the adequacy of the allowance based on evaluations of
    credit relationships, the loan portfolio, recent loss
    experience, and other pertinent factors, including economic
    conditions. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it
    requires estimates, including amounts of future cash collections
    expected on nonaccrual loans, which may be susceptible to
    significant change. The allowance for credit losses relating to
    impaired loans is based on the loan s observable market
    price, the collateral for certain collateral-dependent loans, or
    the discounted cash flows using the loan s effective
    interest rate.

The Company determines the amount of the allowance required for
    certain sectors based on relative risk characteristics of the
    loan portfolio. The allowance recorded for commercial loans is
    based on quarterly reviews of individual credit relationships
    and an analysis of the migration of commercial loans and actual
    loss experience. The allowance recorded for homogeneous consumer
    loans is based on an analysis of product mix, risk
    characteristics of the portfolio, bankruptcy experiences, and
    historical losses, adjusted for current trends, for each
    homogenous category or group of loans. The allowance is
    increased through provisions charged to operating earnings and
    reduced by net charge-offs.

The Company also assesses the credit risk associated with
    off-balance sheet loan commitments, letters of credit, and
    derivatives and determines the appropriate amount of credit loss
    liability that should be recorded. The liability for off-balance
    sheet credit exposure related to loan commitments and other
    financial instruments is included in other liabilities.

Nonaccrual Loans
       Generally commercial
    loans (including impaired loans) are placed on nonaccrual status
    when the collection of interest or principal has become
    90 days past due or is otherwise considered doubtful. When
    a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, unpaid accrued interest
    is reversed. Future interest payments are generally applied
    against principal. Revolving consumer lines and credit cards are
    charged off by 180 days past due and closed-end consumer
    loans other than loans secured by 1-4 family properties are
    charged off at 120 days past due and are, therefore,
    generally not placed on nonaccrual status. Certain retail
    customers having financial difficulties may have the terms of
    their credit card and other loan agreements modified to require
    only principal payments and, as such, are reported as nonaccrual.

U.S. BANCORP  73  

Impaired Loans
       A loan is considered to
    be impaired when, based on current information and events, it is
    probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts
    due (both interest and principal) according to the contractual
    terms of the loan agreement.

Restructured
    Loans    In cases where a
    borrower experiences financial difficulties and the Company
    makes certain concessionary modifications to contractual terms,
    the loan is classified as a restructured loan. Loans
    restructured at a rate equal to or greater than that of a new
    loan with comparable risk at the time the contract is modified
    may be excluded from restructured loans in the calendar years
    subsequent to the restructuring if they are in compliance with
    the modified terms.

Generally, a nonaccrual loan that is restructured remains on
    nonaccrual for a period of six months to demonstrate that the
    borrower can meet the restructured terms. However, performance
    prior to the restructuring, or significant events that coincide
    with the restructuring, are considered in assessing whether the
    borrower can meet the new terms and may result in the loan being
    returned to accrual status at the time of restructuring or after
    a shorter performance period. If the borrower s ability to
    meet the revised payment schedule is not reasonably assured, the
    loan remains classified as a nonaccrual loan.

Leases
       The Company engages in
    both direct and leveraged lease financing. The net investment in
    direct financing leases is the sum of all minimum lease payments
    and estimated residual values, less unearned income. Unearned
    income is added to interest income over the terms of the leases
    to produce a level yield.

The investment in leveraged leases is the sum of all lease
    payments (less nonrecourse debt payments) plus estimated
    residual values, less unearned income. Income from leveraged
    leases is recognized over the term of the leases based on the
    unrecovered equity investment.

Residual values on leased assets are reviewed regularly for
    other-than-temporary impairment. Residual valuations for retail
    automobile leases are based on independent assessments of
    expected used car sale prices at the end-of-term. Impairment
    tests are conducted based on these valuations considering the
    probability of the lessee returning the asset to the Company,
    re-marketing efforts, insurance coverage and ancillary fees and
    costs. Valuations for commercial leases are based upon external
    or internal management appraisals. When there is other than
    temporary impairment in the estimated fair value of the
    Company s interest in the residual value of a leased asset,
    the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair value with
    the writedown recognized in the current period.

Loans Held for
    Sale    Loans held for sale
    ( LHFS ) represent mortgage loan originations intended
    to be sold in the secondary market and other loans that
    management has an active plan to sell. LHFS are carried at the
    lower of cost or market value as determined on an aggregate
    basis by type of loan. In the event management decides to sell
    loans receivable, the loans are transferred at the lower of cost
    or fair value. Loans transferred to LHFS are marked-to-market
    ( MTM ) at the time of transfer. MTM losses related to
    the sale/transfer of non-homogeneous loans that are
    predominantly credit-related are reflected in charge-offs. With
    respect to homogeneous loans, the amount of  probable 
    credit loss, determined in accordance with Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 5,  Accounting for
    Contingencies,  methodologies utilized to determine the
    specific allowance allocation for the portfolio, is also
    included in charge-offs. Any incremental loss determined in
    accordance with MTM accounting, that includes consideration of
    other factors such as estimates of inherent losses, is reported
    separately from charge-offs as a reduction to the allowance for
    credit losses. Subsequent decreases in fair value are recognized
    in noninterest income.

Other Real Estate
       Other real estate
    ( ORE ), which is included in other assets, is
    property acquired through foreclosure or other proceedings. ORE
    is carried at fair value, less estimated selling costs. The
    property is evaluated regularly and any decreases in the
    carrying amount are included in noninterest expense.

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL
    INSTRUMENTS

In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into
    derivative transactions to manage its interest rate, prepayment,
    credit, price and foreign currency risk and to accommodate the
    business requirements of its customers. All derivative
    instruments are recorded as either other assets, other
    liabilities or short-term borrowings at fair value. Subsequent
    changes in a derivative s fair value are recognized
    currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria
    are met.

All derivative instruments that qualify for hedge accounting are
    recorded at fair value and classified either as a hedge of the
    fair value of a recognized asset or liability ( fair
    value  hedge) or as a hedge of the variability of cash
    flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or
    liability or a forecasted transaction ( cash flow 
    hedge). Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly
    effective and designated as a fair value hedge and the
    offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged item are
    recorded in income. Changes in the fair value of a derivative
    that is highly effective and designated as a cash flow hedge are
    recognized in other comprehensive income until income from the
    cash flows of the hedged item is recognized. The Company
    performs an assessment, both at the inception of

74  U.S. BANCORP  

the hedge and on a quarterly basis thereafter, when required, to
    determine whether these derivatives are highly effective in
    offsetting changes in the value of the hedged items. Any change
    in fair value resulting from hedge ineffectiveness is
    immediately recorded in noninterest income.

If a derivative designated as a hedge is terminated or ceases to
    be highly effective, the gain or loss is amortized to earnings
    over the remaining life of the hedged asset or liability (fair
    value hedge) or over the same period(s) that the forecasted
    hedged transactions impact earnings (cash flow hedge). If the
    hedged item is disposed of, or the forecasted transaction is no
    longer probable, the derivative is recorded at fair value with
    any resulting gain or loss included in the gain or loss from the
    disposition of the hedged item or, in the case of a forecasted
    transaction that is no longer probable, included in earnings
    immediately.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

The Company recognizes revenue as it is earned based on
    contractual terms, as transactions occur, or as services are
    provided and collectibility is reasonably assured. In certain
    circumstances, noninterest income is reported net of associated
    expenses that are directly related to variable volume-based
    sales or revenue sharing arrangements or when the Company acts
    on an agency basis for others. Certain specific policies include
    the following:

Credit and Debit
    Card Revenue    Credit and
    debit card revenue includes interchange income from credit and
    debit cards, annual fees, and other transaction and account
    management fees. Interchange income is a fee paid by a merchant
    bank to the card-issuing bank through the interchange network.
    Interchange fees are set by the credit card associations and are
    based on cardholder purchase volumes. The Company records
    interchange income as transactions occur. Transaction and
    account management fees are recognized as transactions occur or
    services are provided, except for annual fees, which are
    recognized over the applicable period. Volume-related payments
    to partners and credit card associations and expenses for
    rewards programs are also recorded within credit and debit card
    revenue. Payments to partners and expenses related to rewards
    programs are recorded when earned by the partner or customer.

Merchant
    Processing Services
       Merchant processing
    services revenue consists principally of transaction and account
    management fees charged to merchants for the electronic
    processing of transactions, net of interchange fees paid to the
    credit card issuing bank, card association assessments, and
    revenue sharing amounts, and are all recognized at the time the
    merchant s transactions are processed or other services are
    performed. The Company may enter into revenue sharing agreements
    with referral partners or in connection with purchases of
    merchant contracts from sellers. The revenue sharing amounts are
    determined primarily on sales volume processed or revenue
    generated for a particular group of merchants. Merchant
    processing revenue also includes revenues related to
    point-of-sale equipment recorded as sales when the equipment is
    shipped or as earned for equipment rentals.

Trust and
    Investment Management Fees
       Trust and investment
    management fees are recognized over the period in which services
    are performed and are based on a percentage of the fair value of
    the assets under management or administration, fixed based on
    account type, or transaction-based fees.

Deposit Service
    Charges    Service charges
    on deposit accounts primarily represent monthly fees based on
    minimum balances or transaction-based fees. These fees are
    recognized as earned or as transactions occur and services are
    provided.

OTHER SIGNIFICANT
    POLICIES

Intangible Assets
       The price paid over the
    net fair value of the acquired businesses ( goodwill )
    is not amortized. Other intangible assets are amortized over
    their estimated useful lives, using straight-line and
    accelerated methods. The recoverability of goodwill and other
    intangible assets is evaluated annually, at a minimum, or on an
    interim basis if events or circumstances indicate a possible
    inability to realize the carrying amount. The evaluation
    includes assessing the estimated fair value of the intangible
    asset based on market prices for similar assets, where
    available, and the present value of the estimated future cash
    flows associated with the intangible asset.

Income Taxes
       Deferred taxes are
    recorded to reflect the tax consequences on future years of
    differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and
    the financial reporting amounts at each year-end.

Mortgage
    Servicing Rights
       Mortgage servicing
    rights ( MSRs ) are capitalized as separate assets
    when loans are sold and servicing is retained or may be
    purchased from others. MSRs are initially recorded at fair
    value, if practicable, and at each subsequent reporting date.
    The Company determines the fair value by estimating the present
    value of the asset s future cash flows utilizing
    market-based prepayment rates, discount rates, and other
    assumptions validated through comparison to trade information,
    industry surveys and independent third party appraisals. Changes
    in the fair value of MSRs are recorded in earnings during the
    period in which they occur. Risks inherent in the MSRs valuation
    include higher than expected prepayment rates

U.S. BANCORP  75  

and/or 
    delayed receipt of cash flows. The Company utilizes futures,
    forwards and interest rate swaps to mitigate the valuation risk.
    Fair value changes related to the MSRs and the futures, forwards
    and interest rate swaps, as well as servicing and other related
    fees, are recorded in mortgage banking revenue.

Pensions
       For purposes of its
    retirement plans, the Company utilizes a measurement date of
    September 30. At the measurement date, plan assets are
    determined based on fair value, generally representing
    observable market prices. The actuarial cost method used to
    compute the pension liabilities and related expense is the
    projected unit credit method. The projected benefit obligation
    is principally determined based on the present value of
    projected benefit distributions at an assumed discount rate. The
    discount rate utilized is based on match-funding maturities and
    interest payments of high quality corporate bonds available in
    the market place to projected cash flows as of the measurement
    date for future benefit payments. Periodic pension expense (or
    income) includes service costs, interest costs based on the
    assumed discount rate, the expected return on plan assets based
    on an actuarially derived market-related value and amortization
    of actuarial gains and losses. Pension accounting reflects the
    long-term nature of benefit obligations and the investment
    horizon of plan assets and can have the effect of reducing
    earnings volatility related to short-term changes in interest
    rates and market valuations. Actuarial gains and losses include
    the impact of plan amendments and various unrecognized gains and
    losses which are deferred and amortized over the future service
    periods of active employees. The market-related value utilized
    to determine the expected return on plan assets is based on fair
    value adjusted for the difference between expected returns and
    actual performance of plan assets. The unrealized difference
    between actual experience and expected returns is included in
    the market-related value and amortized as a component of pension
    expense ratably over a five-year period. The overfunded or
    underfunded status of the plans is recorded as an asset or
    liability on the balance sheet, with changes in that status
    recognized through other comprehensive income.

Premises and
    Equipment    Premises and
    equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and
    depreciated primarily on a straight-line basis over the
    estimated life of the assets. Estimated useful lives range up to
    40 years for newly constructed buildings and from 3 to
    20 years for furniture and equipment.

Capitalized leases, less accumulated amortization, are included
    in premises and equipment. The lease obligations are included in
    long-term debt. Capitalized leases are amortized on a
    straight-line basis over the lease term and the amortization is
    included in depreciation expense.

Statement of Cash
    Flows    For purposes of
    reporting cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash and
    money market investments, defined as interest-bearing amounts
    due from banks, federal funds sold and securities purchased
    under agreements to resell.

Stock-Based
    Compensation    The Company
    grants stock-based awards, including restricted stock and
    options to purchase common stock of the Company. Stock option
    grants are for a fixed number of shares to employees and
    directors with an exercise price equal to the fair value of the
    shares at the date of grant. Stock-based compensation for awards
    is recognized in the Company s results of operations on a
    straight-line basis over the vesting period. The Company
    immediately recognizes compensation cost of awards to employees
    that meet retirement status, despite their continued active
    employment. The amortization of stock-based compensation
    reflects estimated forfeitures adjusted for actual forfeiture
    experience. As compensation expense is recognized, a deferred
    tax asset is recorded that represents an estimate of the future
    tax deduction from exercise or release of restrictions. At the
    time stock-based awards are exercised, cancelled, expire, or
    restrictions are released, the Company may be required to
    recognize an adjustment to tax expense.

Per Share
    Calculations    Earnings
    per share is calculated by dividing net income applicable to
    common equity by the weighted average number of common shares
    outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share is
    calculated by adjusting income and outstanding shares, assuming
    conversion of all potentially dilutive securities, using the
    treasury stock method.

Note 2
        
       ACCOUNTING
    CHANGES

Business
    Combinations    In December
    2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    ( FASB ) issued Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 141 (revised 2007)
    ( SFAS 141R ),  Business Combinations ,
    effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2009.
    SFAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for the
    acquirer in a business combination, including the recognition
    and measurement of the identifiable assets acquired, the
    liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the
    acquired entity as of the acquisition date; the recognition and
    measurement of the goodwill acquired in the business combination
    or gain from a bargain purchase as of the acquisition date; and
    the determination of additional disclosures needed to enable
    users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and
    financial effects of the business combination. Under SFAS 141R,
    nearly all acquired assets and liabilities assumed are required
    to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, including
    loans. This will

76  U.S. BANCORP  

eliminate separate recognition of the acquired allowance for
    loan losses on the acquirer s balance sheet as credit
    related factors will be incorporated directly into the fair
    value of the loans recorded at the acquisition date. Other
    significant changes include recognizing transaction costs and
    most restructuring costs as expenses when incurred. Early
    adoption is not permitted. The Company is currently assessing
    the impact of this guidance on potential future business
    combinations that may occur on or after the January 1, 2009
    effective date.

Noncontrolling
    Interests    In December
    2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 160 ( SFAS 160 ),
     Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51 , effective for
    the Company beginning on January 1, 2009. SFAS 160
    will change the accounting and reporting for minority interests,
    which will be recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and
    classified as a component of equity, separate from the
    Company s own equity, in the consolidated balance sheet.
    This Statement also requires the amount of net income
    attributable to the entity and to the noncontrolling interests
    to be shown separately on the face of the consolidated statement
    of income. SFAS 160 also requires expanded disclosures that
    clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the
    entity and those of the noncontrolling owners. The Company is
    currently assessing the impact of this guidance on its financial
    statements.

Loan Commitments
       In November 2007, the
    Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) issued
    Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 109
    ( SAB 109 ),  Written Loan Commitments
    Recorded at Fair Value Through Earnings , which revises and
    rescinds portions of Staff Accounting
    Bulletin No. 105,  Application of Accounting
    Principles to Loan Commitments.  SAB 109 is effective
    for written loan commitments issued or modified by the Company
    beginning on January 1, 2008. SAB 109 provides the
    SEC s views on the accounting for written loan commitments
    recorded at fair value through earnings under accounting
    principles generally accepted in the United States, and
    specifically states that the expected net future cash flows
    related to the servicing of a loan should be included in the
    measurement of all such written loan commitments. The adoption
    of SAB 109 is not expected to have a material impact on the
    Company s financial statements.

Fair Value Option
       In February 2007, the
    FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 159 ( SFAS 159 ),  The Fair Value
    Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities ,
    effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2008.
    This Statement provides entities with an option to report
    selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value, with
    the objective to reduce both the complexity in accounting for
    financial instruments and the volatility in earnings caused by
    measuring related assets and liabilities differently. The
    Company s adoption of SFAS 159 is not expected to have
    a material impact on the Company s financial statements.

Fair Value
    Measurements    In
    September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 157 ( SFAS 157 ),
     Fair Value Measurements , effective for the Company
    beginning on January 1, 2008. This Statement defines fair
    value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and
    expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This
    Statement provides a consistent definition of fair value which
    focuses on exit price and prioritizes market-based inputs
    obtained from sources independent of the entity over those from
    the entity s own inputs that are not corroborated by
    observable market data. SFAS 157 also requires
    consideration of nonperformance risk when determining fair value
    measurements.

This Statement expands disclosures about the use of fair value
    to measure assets and liabilities in interim and annual periods
    subsequent to initial recognition. The disclosures focus on the
    inputs used to measure fair value, and for recurring fair value
    measurements using significant unobservable inputs, the effect
    of the measurements on earnings or changes in net assets for the
    period. The Company s adoption of SFAS 157 will result
    in certain changes in the measurement of fair value and, at the
    time of adoption, is expected to reduce earnings per diluted
    common share by two cents in the first quarter of 2008.

Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes    In June
    2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48
    ( FIN 48 ),  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,
    Accounting for Income Taxes , effective for the Company
    beginning on January 1, 2007. FIN 48 clarifies the
    recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before
    being recognized in the financial statements. FIN 48 also
    provides guidance on disclosure and other matters. The adoption
    of FIN 48 did not have a material impact on the
    Company s financial statements.

Note 3       RESTRICTIONS
    ON CASH AND DUE FROM BANKS

The Federal Reserve Bank requires bank subsidiaries to maintain
    minimum average reserve balances. The amount of the reserve
    requirement was approximately $1.0 billion at
    December 31, 2007.

U.S. BANCORP  77  

Note 4       INVESTMENT
    SECURITIES

The amortized cost, gross unrealized holding gains and losses,
    and fair value of
     held-to-maturity 
    and
     available-for-sale 
    securities at December 31 was as follows:

(a)

Held-to-maturity
    securities are carried at historical cost adjusted for
    amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts.   

(b)

Available-for-sale
    securities are carried at fair value with unrealized net gains
    or losses reported within other comprehensive income in
    shareholders  equity.   

(c)

Primarily
    includes investments in structured investment vehicles with
    underlying collateral that includes a mix of various mortgage
    and other asset-backed securities.   

The weighted-average maturity of the available-for-sale
    investment securities was 7.4 years at December 31,
    2007, compared with 6.6 years at December 31, 2006.
    The corresponding weighted-average yields were 5.51 percent
    and 5.32 percent, respectively. The
     weighted-average 
    maturity of the
     held-to-maturity 
    investment securities was 8.3 years at December 31,
    2007, compared with 8.4 years at December 31, 2006.
    The corresponding
     weighted-average 
    yields were 5.92 percent and 6.03 percent,
    respectively.

For amortized cost, fair value and yield by maturity date of
    held-to-maturity and available-for-sale securities outstanding
    at December 31, 2007, refer to Table 11 included in
    Management s Discussion and Analysis which is incorporated
    by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Securities carried at $39.6 billion at December 31,
    2007, and $35.8 billion at December 31, 2006, were
    pledged to secure public, private and trust deposits, repurchase
    agreements and for other purposes required by law. Securities
    sold under agreements to repurchase where the buyer/lender has
    the right to sell or pledge the securities were collateralized
    by securities with an amortized cost of $10.5 billion at
    December 31, 2007, and $9.8 billion at
    December 31, 2006, respectively.

The following table provides information as to the amount of
    interest income from taxable and non-taxable investment
    securities:

The following table provides information as to the amount of
    gross gains and losses realized through the sales of
    available-for-sale investment securities:

78  U.S. BANCORP  

Included in available-for-sale, asset-backed investment
    securities, are structured investment securities which were
    purchased in the fourth quarter of 2007 from certain money
    market funds managed by FAF Advisors, Inc., an affiliate of the
    Company. Some of these securities evidenced credit deterioration
    subsequent to origination, but prior to acquisition by the
    Company. Statement of Position
     No. 03-3 
     ( SOP 03-3 ), 
     Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired
    in a Transfer , requires the difference between the total
    expected cash flows for these securities and the initial
    recorded investment to be recognized in earnings over the life
    of the securities, using a level yield. If subsequent decreases
    in the fair value of these securities are accompanied by an
    adverse change in the expected cash flows, an
    other-than-temporary impairment will be recorded through
    earnings. Subsequent increases in the expected cash flows will
    be recognized as income prospectively over the remaining life of
    the security by increasing the level yield.

At December 31, 2007, the gross undiscounted cash flows
    that were due under the contractual terms of the purchased
    securities subject to
     SOP 03-3, 
    were $2.5 billion, which included payments receivable of
    $33 million.

Changes in the carrying amount and accretable yield for the year
    ended December 31, 2007, are as follows:

(a)

The
    Carrying amount of purchases represents the fair value of the
    securities on that date.   

The Company conducts a regular assessment of its investment
    portfolios to determine whether any securities are
    other-than-temporarily impaired considering, among other
    factors, the nature of the securities, credit ratings or
    financial condition of the issuer, the extent and duration of
    the unrealized loss, expected cash flows of underlying
    collateral, market conditions and the Company s ability to
    hold the securities through the anticipated recovery period.

At December 31, 2007, certain investment securities
    included in the held-to-maturity and available-for-sale
    categories had a fair value that was below their amortized cost.

The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair
    value of the Company s investments with unrealized losses
    that are not deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired based
    on the period the investments have been in a continuous
    unrealized loss position:

Generally, the unrealized losses within each investment category
    have occurred due to rising interest rates over the past few
    years. The substantial portion of securities that have
    unrealized losses are either government securities, issued by
    government-backed agencies or privately issued securities with
    high investment grade credit ratings. Unrealized losses within
    other securities and investments are also the result of a modest
    widening of credit spreads since the initial purchase date. In
    general, the issuers of the investment securities do not have
    the contractual ability to pay them off at less than par at
    maturity or any earlier call date. As of the reporting date, the
    Company expects to

U.S. BANCORP  79  

receive all principal and interest related to these securities.
    Because the Company has the ability and intent to hold its
    investment securities until their anticipated recovery in value
    or maturity, they are not considered to be
    other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 31, 2007.

Note 5       LOANS
    AND ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES

The composition of the loan portfolio at December 31 was as
    follows:

Loans are presented net of unearned interest and deferred fees
    and costs, which amounted to $1.4 billion and
    $1.3 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. The Company had loans of $44.5 billion at
    December 31, 2007, and $44.8 billion at
    December 31, 2006, pledged at the Federal Home Loan Bank
    ( FHLB ). Loans of $16.8 billion at
    December 31, 2007, and $16.2 billion at
    December 31, 2006, were pledged at the Federal Reserve Bank.

The Company primarily lends to borrowers in the 24 states
    in which it has banking offices. Collateral for commercial loans
    may include marketable securities, accounts receivable,
    inventory and equipment. For details of the Company s
    commercial portfolio by industry group and geography as of
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, see Table 8 included in
    Management s Discussion and Analysis which is incorporated
    by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

For detail of the Company s commercial real estate
    portfolio by property type and geography as of December 31,
    2007 and 2006, see Table 9 included in Management s
    Discussion and Analysis which is incorporated by reference into
    these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Such loans are
    collateralized by the related property.

Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans, restructured
    loans not performing in accordance with modified terms, other
    real estate and other nonperforming assets owned by the Company.
    For details of the Company s nonperforming assets as of
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, see Table 14 included in
    Management s Discussion and Analysis which is incorporated
    by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

80  U.S. BANCORP  

The following table lists information related to nonperforming
    loans as of December 31:

Activity in the allowance for credit losses was as follows:

(a)

Included
    in this analysis is activity related to the Company s
    liability for unfunded commitments, which is separately recorded
    in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance
    Sheet.   

A portion of the allowance for credit losses is allocated to
    commercial and commercial real estate loans deemed impaired.
    These impaired loans are included in nonperforming assets. A
    summary of impaired loans and their related allowance for credit
    losses is as follows:

Commitments to lend additional funds to customers whose
    commercial and commercial real estate loans were classified as
    nonaccrual or restructured at December 31, 2007, totaled
    $12 million.

In addition to impaired commercial and commercial real estate
    loans, the Company had smaller balance homogenous loans that are
    accruing interest at rates considered to be below market rate.
    At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the recorded
    investment in these other restructured loans was
    $551 million, $405 million and $315 million,
    respectively, with average balances of $466 million,
    $379 million, and $278 million during 2007, 2006 and
    2005, respectively. The Company recognized estimated interest
    income on these loans of $29 million, $35 million, and
    $20 million during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the
    Company had net gains on the sale of loans of $163 million,
    $104 million and $175 million, respectively, which
    were included in noninterest income, primarily in mortgage
    banking revenue.

The Company has equity interests in two joint ventures that are
    accounted for utilizing the equity method. The principal
    activity of one entity is to provide commercial real

U.S. BANCORP  81  

estate financing that the joint venture securitizes and sells to
    third party investors. The principal activity of the other
    entity is to provide senior or subordinated financing to
    customers for the construction, rehabilitation or redevelopment
    of commercial real estate. In connection with these joint
    ventures, the Company provides warehousing lines to support the
    operations. Warehousing advances to the joint ventures are made
    in the ordinary course of business and repayment of these credit
    facilities occurs when the securitization is completed or the
    commercial real estate project is permanently refinanced by
    others. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had
    $2.3 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, of
    outstanding loan balances to these joint ventures.

Note 6       LEASES

The components of the net investment in sales-type and direct
    financing leases at December 31 were as follows:

The minimum future lease payments to be received from sales-type
    and direct financing leases were as follows at
    December 31, 2007:

Note 7       ACCOUNTING
    FOR TRANSFERS AND SERVICING OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND VARIABLE  
                   INTEREST
    ENTITIES

FINANCIAL ASSET SALES

When the Company sells financial assets, it may retain
    interest-only strips, servicing rights, residual rights to a
    cash reserve account,
     and/or  other
    retained interests in the sold financial assets. The gain or
    loss on sale depends in part on the previous carrying amount of
    the financial assets involved in the transfer and is allocated
    between the assets sold and the retained interests based on
    their relative fair values at the date of transfer. Quoted
    market prices are used to determine retained interest fair
    values when readily available. Since quotes are generally not
    available for retained interests, the Company estimates fair
    value based on the present value of future expected cash flows
    using management s best estimates of the key assumptions,
    including credit losses, prepayment speeds, forward yield
    curves, and discount rates commensurate with the risks involved.
    Retained interests and liabilities are recorded at fair value
    using a discounted cash flow methodology at inception and are
    evaluated at least quarterly thereafter.

Conduit and
    Securitization      The
    Company sponsors an off-balance sheet conduit, a qualified
    special purpose entity ( QSPE ), to which it
    transferred high-grade investment securities, funded by the
    issuance of commercial paper. Because QSPE s are exempt
    from consolidation under the provisions of Financial
    Interpretation No. 46R ( FIN 46R ),
     Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,  the
    Company does not consolidate the conduit structure in its
    financial statements. The conduit held assets of
    $1.2 billion at December 31, 2007, and
    $2.2 billion at December 31, 2006. These investment
    securities include primarily (i) private label asset-backed
    securities, which are insurance  wrapped  by monoline
    insurance companies and (ii) government agency
    mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage
    obligations. The conduit had commercial paper liabilities of
    $1.2 billion at December 31, 2007, and
    $2.2 billion at December 31, 2006. The Company
    benefits by transferring the investment securities into a
    conduit that provides diversification of funding sources in a
    capital-efficient manner and the generation of income.

82  U.S. BANCORP  

The Company provides a liquidity facility to the conduit.
    Utilization of the liquidity facility would be triggered if the
    conduit is unable to, or does not, issue commercial paper to
    fund its assets. A liability for the estimate of the potential
    risk of loss the Company has as the liquidity facility provider
    is recorded on the balance sheet in other liabilities. The
    liability is adjusted downward over time as the underlying
    assets pay down with the offset recognized as other noninterest
    income. The liability for the liquidity facility was
    $2 million at December 31, 2007, and $10 million
    at December 31, 2006. In addition, the Company recorded its
    retained residual interest in the investment securities conduit
    of $2 million at December 31, 2007 and
    $13 million at December 31, 2006. The Company recorded
    $2 million in revenue from the conduit during 2007 and
    $8 million during 2006, including fees for servicing,
    management, administration and accretion income from retained
    interests.

Sensitivity
    Analysis    At
    December 31, 2007, key economic assumptions and the
    sensitivity of the current fair value of residual cash flows to
    immediate 10 percent and 20 percent adverse changes in
    those assumptions for the investment securities conduit were as
    follows:

December 31,
    2007 (Dollars in Millions)

Current Economic Assumptions Sensitivity Analysis (a) 

Fair value of retained interests

$

3

Weighted average life (in years)

.3

Expected Remaining Life (In Years) 

2.3

Impact of 10% adverse change

$

Impact of 20% adverse change

(1

)

(a)

The
    residual cash flow discount rate was 2.9 percent at
    December 31, 2007. The investments are AAA/Aaa rated or
    insured investments, therefore, credit losses are assumed to be
    zero with no impact for interest rate movement. Also, interest
    rate movements create no material impact to the value of the
    residual interest, as the investment securities conduit is
    mostly match funded.   

These sensitivities are hypothetical and should be used with
    caution. As the figures indicate, changes in fair value based on
    a 10 percent variation in assumptions generally cannot be
    extrapolated because the relationship of the change in the
    assumptions to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also,
    in this table the effect of a variation in a particular
    assumption on the fair value of the retained interest is
    calculated without changing any other assumptions; in reality,
    changes in one factor may result in changes in another (for
    example, increases in market interest rates may result in lower
    prepayments and increased credit losses), which might magnify or
    counteract the sensitivities.

Cash Flow
    Information      During the
    years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the investment
    conduit generated $11 million and $15 million of cash
    flows, respectively, from servicing, other fees and retained
    interests.

VARIABLE INTEREST
    ENTITIES

The Company is involved in various entities that are considered
    to be variable interest entities ( VIEs ), as defined
    in FASB Interpretation No. 46R. Generally, a VIE is a
    corporation, partnership, trust or any other legal structure
    that either does not have equity investors with substantive
    voting rights or has equity investors that do not provide
    sufficient financial resources for the entity to support its
    activities. The Company s investments in VIEs primarily
    represent private investment funds that make equity investments,
    provide debt financing or partnerships to support
    community-based investments in affordable housing, development
    entities that provide capital for communities located in
    low-income districts and historic rehabilitation projects that
    may enable the Company to ensure regulatory compliance with the
    Community Reinvestment Act.

With respect to these investments, the Company is required to
    consolidate any VIE in which it is determined to be the primary
    beneficiary. At December 31, 2007, approximately
    $382 million of total assets related to various VIEs were
    consolidated by the Company in its financial statements.
    Creditors of these VIEs have no recourse to the general credit
    of the Company. The Company is not required to consolidate other
    VIEs as it is not the primary beneficiary. In such cases, the
    Company does not absorb the majority of the entities 
    expected losses nor does it receive a majority of the
    entities  expected residual returns. The amounts of the
    Company s investment in these unconsolidated entities
    ranged from less than $1 million to $69 million with
    an aggregate amount of approximately $2.2 billion at
    December 31, 2007. While the Company believes potential
    losses from these investments is remote, the Company s
    maximum exposure to these unconsolidated VIEs, including any tax
    implications and unfunded commitments, was approximately
    $3.7 billion at December 31, 2007, assuming that all
    of the separate investments within the individual private funds
    are deemed worthless and the community-based business and
    housing projects, and related tax credits, completely failed and
    did not meet certain government compliance requirements.

U.S. BANCORP  83  

Note 8       PREMISES
    AND EQUIPMENT

Premises and equipment at December 31 consisted of the following:

Note 9       MORTGAGE
    SERVICING RIGHTS

The Company s portfolio of residential mortgages serviced
    for others was $97.0 billion and $82.9 billion at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Effective
    January 1, 2006, the Company records MSRs initially at fair
    value and at each subsequent reporting date, and records changes
    in fair value in noninterest income in the period in which they
    occur. Prior to January 1, 2006, the initial carrying value
    of MSRs was amortized over the estimated life of the tangible
    asset and changes in valuation, under the
    lower-of-cost-or-market accounting method, were recognized as
    impairments or reparation within other intangible expenses.

In conjunction with its MSRs, the Company may utilize
    derivatives, including futures, forwards and interest rate swaps
    to offset the effect of interest rate changes on the fair value
    of MSRs. The net impact of assumption changes on the fair value
    of MSRs, excluding decay, and the related derivatives included
    in mortgage banking revenue was a net loss of $35 million
    and $37 million for the years ended December 31, 2007,
    and 2006, respectively. Loan servicing fees, not including
    valuation changes, included in mortgage banking revenue were
    $353 million and $319 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Changes in fair value of capitalized MSRs are summarized as
    follows:

(a)

Principally
    reflects changes in discount rates and prepayment speed
    assumptions, primarily arising from interest rate
    changes.   

(b)

Primarily
    represents changes due to collection/realization of expected
    cash flows over time (decay).   

The Company determines fair value by estimating the present
    value of the asset s future cash flows utilizing
    market-based prepayment rates, discount rates, and other
    assumptions validated through comparison to trade information,
    industry surveys, and independent third party appraisals. Risks
    inherent in the MSRs valuation include higher than expected
    prepayment rates
     and/or 
    delayed receipt of cash flows. The estimated sensitivity to
    changes in interest rates of the fair value of the MSRs
    portfolio and the related derivative instruments at
    December 31, 2007, was as follows:

84  U.S. BANCORP  

The fair value of MSRs and its sensitivity to changes in
    interest rates is influenced by the mix of the servicing
    portfolio and characteristics of each segment of the portfolio.
    The Company s servicing portfolio consists of the distinct
    portfolios of Mortgage Revenue Bond Programs ( MRBP ),
    government-insured mortgages and conventional mortgages. The
    MRBP division specializes in servicing loans made under state
    and local housing authority programs. These programs provide
    mortgages to low-income and moderate-income borrowers and are
    generally government-insured programs with a favorable rate
    subsidy, down payment
     and/or 
    closing cost assistance. Mortgage loans originated as part of
    government agency and state loans programs tend to experience
    slower prepayment rates and better cash flows than conventional
    mortgage loans. The servicing portfolios are predominantly
    comprised of fixed-rate agency loans (FNMA, FHLMC, GNMA, FHLB
    and various housing agencies) with limited adjustable-rate or
    jumbo mortgage loans.

A summary of the Company s MSRs and related characteristics
    by portfolio as of December 31, 2007, was as follows:

*    
     
      Value is
    calculated as fair market value divided by the servicing
    portfolio.  

Note 10       INTANGIBLE
    ASSETS

Intangible assets consisted of the following:

(a)

Estimated
    life represents the amortization period for assets subject to
    the straight line method and the weighted average amortization
    period for intangibles subject to accelerated methods. If more
    than one amortization method is used for a category, the
    estimated life for each method is calculated and reported
    separately.   

(b)

Amortization methods:  SL =
    straight line method 
      AC = accelerated methods generally based on
    cash flows  

(c)

Mortgage
    servicing rights are recorded at fair value, and are not
    amortized.   

Aggregate amortization expense consisted of the following:

(a)

Effective
    January 1, 2006, mortgage servicing rights are recorded at
    fair value and are no longer amortized. The year ended
    December 31, 2005, includes mortgage servicing rights
    reparation of $53 million.   

U.S. BANCORP  85  

Below is the estimated amortization expense for the next five
    years:

The following table reflects the changes in the carrying value
    of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006:

(a)

Other
    changes in goodwill include the effect of foreign exchange
    translation.   

Note 11       SHORT-TERM
    BORROWINGS (a)

The following table is a summary of short-term borrowings for
    the last three years:

(a)

Interest
    and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis
    utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent.   

(b)

Average
    federal funds purchased rates include compensation expense for
    corporate card and corporate trust balances.   

86  U.S. BANCORP  

Note
    12       LONG-TERM
    DEBT

Long-term debt (debt with original maturities of more than one
    year) at December 31 consisted of the following:

(a)

Weighted-average
    interest rates of medium-term notes, Federal Home Loan Bank
    advances and bank notes were 4.54 percent,
    5.00 percent and 4.89 percent, respectively.   

(b)

Other
    includes debt issuance fees and unrealized gains and losses and
    deferred fees relating to derivative instruments.   

Convertible senior debentures issued by the Company pay interest
    on a quarterly basis until a specified period of time (five or
    nine years prior to the applicable maturity date). After this
    date, the Company will not pay interest on the debentures prior
    to maturity. On the maturity date or on any earlier redemption
    date, the holder will receive the original principal plus
    accrued interest. The debentures are convertible at any time on
    or prior to the maturity date. If the convertible senior
    debentures are converted, holders of the debentures will
    generally receive cash up to the accreted principal amount of
    the debentures plus, if the market price of the Company s
    stock exceeds the conversion price in effect on the date of
    conversion, a number of shares of the Company s common
    stock, or an equivalent amount of cash at the Company s
    option, as determined in accordance with specified terms. The
    convertible senior debentures are callable by the Company and
    putable by the investors at a price equal to 100 percent of
    the accreted principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
    During 2007, investors elected to put debentures with a
    principal amount of $2.6 billion back to the Company.

U.S. BANCORP  87  

The table below summarizes the significant terms of the
    floating-rate convertible senior debentures issued during 2006
    and 2007 at $1,000 per debenture:

(a)

The
    interest rate index represents three month London Interbank
    Offered Rate ( LIBOR )   

During 2007, the Company issued $536 million of fixed-rate
    junior subordinated debentures to a separately formed
    wholly-owned trust for the purpose of issuing Company-obligated
    mandatorily redeemable preferred securities at an interest rate
    of 6.30 percent. In addition, the Company elected to redeem
    $312 million of floating-rate junior subordinated
    debentures. Refer to Note 13,  Junior Subordinated
    Debentures  for further information on the nature and terms
    of these debentures.

The Company s subsidiary, U.S. Bank National
    Association, may issue fixed and floating rate subordinated
    notes to provide liquidity and support its capital requirements.
    During 2007, subordinated notes of $1.3 billion were issued
    by the subsidiary.

The Company has an arrangement with the FHLB whereby based on
    collateral available (residential and commercial mortgages), the
    Company could have borrowed an additional $9 billion at
    December 31, 2007.

Maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31,
    2007, were:

88  U.S. BANCORP  

Note 13       JUNIOR
    SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES

As of December 31, 2007, the Company sponsored and wholly
    owned 100% of the common equity of nine trusts that were formed
    for the purpose of issuing Company-obligated mandatorily
    redeemable preferred securities ( Trust Preferred
    Securities ) to third-party investors and investing the
    proceeds from the sale of the Trust Preferred Securities
    solely in junior subordinated debt securities of the Company
    (the  Debentures ). The Debentures held by the trusts,
    which totaled $4.1 billion, are the sole assets of each
    trust. The Company s obligations under the Debentures and
    related documents, taken together, constitute a full and
    unconditional guarantee by the Company of the obligations of the
    trusts. The guarantee covers the distributions and payments on
    liquidation or redemption of the Trust Preferred
    Securities, but only to the extent of funds held by the trusts.
    The Company has the right to redeem the Debentures in whole or
    in part, on or after specific dates, at a redemption price
    specified in the indentures plus any accrued but unpaid interest
    to the redemption date. The Company used the proceeds from the
    sales of the Debentures for general corporate purposes.

In connection with the formation of USB Capital IX, the trust
    issued redeemable Income Trust Securities ( ITS )
    to third party investors, investing the proceeds in Debentures
    issued by the Company and entered into stock purchase contracts
    to purchase preferred stock to be issued by the Company in the
    future. Pursuant to the stock purchase contracts, the Company is
    required to make contract payments of .65 percent, also
    payable semi-annually, through a specified stock purchase date
    expected to be April 15, 2011. Prior to the specified stock
    purchase date, the Trust is required to remarket and sell the
    Debentures to third party investors to generate cash proceeds to
    satisfy its obligation to purchase the Company s
    Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock
    ( Series A Preferred Stock ) pursuant to the
    stock purchase contracts. The Series A Preferred Stock,
    when issued pursuant to the stock purchase contracts, is
    expected to pay quarterly dividends equal to the greater of
    three-month LIBOR plus 1.02 percent or 3.50 percent.
    In connection with this transaction, the Company also entered
    into a replacement capital covenant which restricts the
    Company s rights to repurchase the ITS and to redeem or
    repurchase the Series A Preferred Stock.

The following table is a summary of the Debentures included in
    long-term debt as of December 31, 2007:

U.S. BANCORP  89  

Note 14       SHAREHOLDERS 
    EQUITY

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had authority to
    issue 4 billion shares of common stock and 50 million
    shares of preferred stock. The Company had 1,728 million
    and 1,765 million shares of common stock outstanding at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and had
    482 million shares reserved for future issuances, primarily
    under stock option plans and shares that may be issued in
    connection with the Company s convertible senior
    debentures, at December 31, 2007. At December 31,
    2007, the Company had 40,000 shares of preferred stock
    outstanding.

On March 27, 2006, the Company issued depositary shares
    representing an ownership interest in 40,000 shares of
    Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock with a
    liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (the
     Series B Preferred Stock ). The Series B
    Preferred Stock has no stated maturity and will not be subject
    to any sinking fund or other obligation of the Company.
    Dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock, if declared,
    will accrue and be payable quarterly, in arrears, at a rate per
    annum equal to the greater of three-month LIBOR plus
    .60 percent, or 3.50 percent. On April 15, 2011,
    or thereafter, the Series B Preferred Stock is redeemable
    at the Company s option, subject to the prior approval of
    the Federal Reserve Board, at a redemption price equal to
    $25,000 per share, plus any declared and unpaid dividends,
    without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. In connection
    with the issuance of the Series B Preferred Stock, the
    Company also entered into a replacement capital covenant, which
    restricts the Company s rights to redeem or repurchase the
    Series B Preferred Stock. Except in certain limited
    circumstances, the Series B Preferred Stock will not have
    any voting rights.

The Company has a preferred share purchase rights plan intended
    to preserve the long-term value of the Company by discouraging a
    hostile takeover of the Company. Under the plan, each share of
    common stock carries a right to purchase one one-thousandth of a
    share of preferred stock. The rights become exercisable in
    certain limited circumstances involving a potential business
    combination transaction or an acquisition of shares of the
    Company and are exercisable at a price of $100 per right,
    subject to adjustment. Following certain other events, each
    right entitles its holder to purchase for $100 an amount of
    common stock of the Company, or, in certain circumstances,
    securities of the acquirer, having a then-current market value
    of twice the exercise price of the right. The dilutive effect of
    the rights on the acquiring company is intended to encourage it
    to negotiate with the Company s Board of Directors prior to
    attempting a takeover. If the Board of Directors believes a
    proposed acquisition is in the best interests of the Company and
    its shareholders, the Board may amend the plan or redeem the
    rights for a nominal amount in order to permit the acquisition
    to be completed without interference from the plan. Until a
    right is exercised, the holder of a right has no rights as a
    shareholder of the Company. The rights expire on
    February 27, 2011.

On December 21, 2004, the Board of Directors approved an
    authorization to repurchase 150 million shares of
    outstanding common stock during the following 24 months. In
    2005, all share repurchases were made under this plan. On
    August 3, 2006, the Board of Directors approved an
    authorization to repurchase 150 million shares of
    outstanding common stock through December 31, 2008. This
    new authorization replaced the December 21, 2004,
    repurchase program. During 2006, the Company repurchased
    62 million shares of common stock under the 2004
    authorization and 28 million shares under the 2006
    authorization. During 2007, all share repurchases were made
    under the 2006 authorization.

The following table summarizes the Company s common stock
    repurchased in each of the last three years:

90  U.S. BANCORP  

Shareholders  equity is affected by transactions and
    valuations of asset and liability positions that require
    adjustments to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. The
    reconciliation of the transactions affecting Accumulated Other
    Comprehensive Income included in shareholders  equity for
    the years ended December 31, is as follows:

Regulatory
    Capital     The measures
    used to assess capital include the capital ratios established by
    bank regulatory agencies, including the specific ratios for the
     well capitalized  designation. Capital adequacy for
    the Company and its banking subsidiaries is measured based on
    two risk-based measures, Tier 1 and total risk-based
    capital. Tier 1 capital is considered core capital and
    includes common shareholders  equity plus qualifying
    preferred stock, trust preferred securities and minority
    interests in consolidated subsidiaries (included in other
    liabilities and subject to certain limitations), and is adjusted
    for the aggregate impact of certain items included in other
    comprehensive income. Total risk-based capital includes
    Tier 1 capital and other items such as subordinated debt
    and the allowance for credit losses. Both measures are stated as
    a percentage of risk-weighted assets, which are measured based
    on their perceived credit risk and include certain off-balance
    sheet exposures, such as unfunded loan commitments, letters of
    credit, and derivative contracts. The Company is also subject to
    a leverage ratio requirement, a non risk-based asset ratio,
    which is defined as Tier 1 capital as a percentage of
    average assets, adjusted for goodwill and other non-qualifying
    intangibles and other assets.

The following table provides the components of the
    Company s regulatory capital:

(a)

Includes
    the impact of items included in other comprehensive income, such
    as unrealized gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities,
    accumulated net gains on cash flow hedges, pension liability
    adjustments, etc.   

U.S. BANCORP  91  

Minority interests principally represent preferred stock of
    consolidated subsidiaries. During 2006, the Company s
    primary banking subsidiary formed USB Realty Corp., a real
    estate investment trust, for the purpose of issuing
    5,000 shares of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Exchangeable
    Non-cumulative Perpetual Series A Preferred Stock with a
    liquidation preference of $100,000 per share
    ( Series A Preferred Securities ) to third party
    investors, and investing the proceeds in certain assets,
    consisting predominately of mortgage-backed securities from the
    Company. Dividends on the Series A Preferred Securities, if
    declared, will accrue and be payable quarterly, in arrears, at a
    rate per annum of 6.091 percent from December 22, 2006
    to, but excluding, January 15, 2012. After January 15,
    2012, the rate will be equal to three-month LIBOR for the
    related dividend period plus 1.147 percent. If USB Realty
    Corp. has not declared a dividend on the Series A Preferred
    Securities before the dividend payment date for any dividend
    period, such dividend shall not be cumulative and shall cease to
    accrue and be payable, and USB Realty Corp. will have no
    obligation to pay dividends accrued for such dividend period,
    whether or not dividends on the Series A Preferred
    Securities are declared for any future dividend period.

The Series A Preferred Securities will be redeemable, in
    whole or in part, at the option of USB Realty Corp. on the
    dividend payment date occurring in January 2012 and each fifth
    anniversary thereafter, or in whole but not in part, at the
    option of USB Realty Corp. on any dividend date before or after
    January 2012 that is not a five-year date. Any redemption will
    be subject to the approval of the Office of the Comptroller of
    the Currency.

For a summary of the regulatory capital requirements and the
    actual ratios as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, for the
    Company and its bank subsidiaries, see Table 21 included in
    Management s Discussion and Analysis, which is incorporated
    by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Note 15       EARNINGS
    PER SHARE

The components of earnings per share were:

For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    options to purchase 13 million, 1 million and
    16 million shares, respectively, were outstanding but not
    included in the computation of diluted earnings per share
    because they were antidilutive. Convertible senior debentures
    that could potentially be converted into shares of the
    Company s common stock pursuant to a specified formula,
    were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per
    share to the extent the conversions were antidilutive.

Note 16       EMPLOYEE
    BENEFITS

Employee
    Investment Plan      The
    Company has a defined contribution retirement savings plan which
    allows qualified employees to make contributions up to
    75 percent of their annual compensation, subject to
    Internal Revenue Service limits, through salary deductions under
    Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Employee
    contributions are invested, at the employees  direction,
    among a variety of investment alternatives. Employee
    contributions are 100 percent matched by the Company, up to
    four percent of an employee s eligible annual compensation.
    The Company s matching contribution vests immediately.
    Although the matching contribution is initially invested in the
    Company s common stock, an employee can reinvest the
    matching contributions among various investment alternatives.
    Total expense was $62 million, $58 million and
    $53 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Pension Plans
       Pension benefits are
    provided to substantially all employees based on years of
    service, multiplied by a percentage of their final average pay.
    Employees become vested upon completing five years of vesting
    service. In

92  U.S. BANCORP  

addition, two cash balance pension benefit plans exist and only
    investment or interest credits continue to be credited to
    participants  accounts. Plan assets consist of various
    equities, equity mutual funds and other miscellaneous assets.

In general, the Company s pension plans  objectives
    include maintaining a funded status sufficient to meet
    participant benefit obligations over time while reducing
    long-term funding requirements and pension costs. The Company
    has an established process for evaluating all the plans, their
    performance and significant plan assumptions, including the
    assumed discount rate and the long-term rate of return
    ( LTROR ). Annually, the Company s Compensation
    Committee ( the Committee ), assisted by outside
    consultants, evaluates plan objectives, funding policies and
    plan investment policies considering its long-term investment
    time horizon and asset allocation strategies. The process also
    evaluates significant plan assumptions. Although plan
    assumptions are established annually, the Company may update its
    analysis on an interim basis in order to be responsive to
    significant events that occur during the year, such as plan
    mergers and amendments.

In addition to the funded qualified pension plans, the Company
    maintains non-qualified plans that are unfunded and the
    aggregate accumulated benefit obligation exceeds the assets. The
    assumptions used in computing the present value of the
    accumulated benefit obligation, the projected benefit obligation
    and net pension expense are substantially consistent with those
    assumptions used for the funded qualified plans.

Funding
    Practices      The
    Company s funding policy is to contribute amounts to its
    plans sufficient to meet the minimum funding requirements of the
    Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, plus such
    additional amounts as the Company determines to be appropriate.
    There were no minimum funding requirements in 2007 or 2006, and
    the Company anticipates no minimum funding requirement in 2008.
    Any contributions made to the plans are invested in accordance
    with established investment policies and asset allocation
    strategies.

Investment
    Policies and Asset Allocation
        In establishing its
    investment policies and asset allocation strategies, the Company
    considers expected returns and the volatility associated with
    different strategies. The independent consultant performs
    modeling that projects numerous outcomes using a broad range of
    possible scenarios, including a mix of possible rates of
    inflation and economic growth. Starting with current economic
    information, the model bases its projections on past
    relationships between inflation, fixed income rates and equity
    returns when these types of economic conditions have existed
    over the previous 30 years, both in the U.S. and in
    foreign countries.

Generally, based on historical performance of the various
    investment asset classes, investments in equities have
    outperformed other investment classes but are subject to higher
    volatility. While an asset allocation including bonds and other
    assets generally has lower volatility and may provide protection
    in a declining interest rate environment, it limits the pension
    plan s long-term up-side potential. Given the pension
    plans  investment horizon and the financial viability of
    the Company to meet its funding objectives, the Committee has
    determined that an asset allocation strategy investing in
    100 percent equities diversified among various domestic
    equity categories and international equities is appropriate. At
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, plan assets of the qualified
    retirement plans included mutual funds that have asset
    management arrangements with related parties totaling
    $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively.

The following table, which is unaudited, except for the actual
    asset allocations at December 31, 2007 and 2006, provides a
    summary of asset allocations adopted by the Company compared
    with a typical asset allocation alternative:

(a)

The
    LTROR assumed for the target asset allocation strategy of
    8.9 percent is based on a range of estimates evaluated by
    the Company which were centered around the compound expected
    return of 9.5 percent reduced for estimated asset
    management and administrative fees.   

U.S. BANCORP  93  

In accordance with its existing practices, the independent
    pension consultant utilized by the Company updated the analysis
    of expected rates of return and evaluated peer group data,
    market conditions and other factors relevant to determining the
    LTROR assumptions for pension costs for 2007 and 2006. The
    analysis performed indicated that the LTROR assumption of
    8.9 percent, used in both 2007 and 2006, continued to be in
    line with expected returns based on current economic conditions
    and the Company expects to continue using this LTROR in 2008.
    Regardless of the extent of the Company s analysis of
    alternative asset allocation strategies, economic scenarios and
    possible outcomes, plan assumptions developed for the LTROR are
    subject to imprecision and changes in economic factors. As a
    result of the modeling imprecision and uncertainty, the Company
    considers a range of potential expected rates of return,
    economic conditions for several scenarios, historical
    performance relative to assumed rates of return and asset
    allocation and LTROR information for a peer group in
    establishing its assumptions.

Postretirement
    Medical Plan     In
    addition to providing pension benefits, the Company provides
    health care and death benefits to certain retired employees
    through a retiree medical program. Generally, all active
    employees may become eligible for retiree health care benefits
    by meeting defined age and service requirements. The Company may
    also subsidize the cost of coverage for employees meeting
    certain age and service requirements. The medical plan contains
    other cost-sharing features such as deductibles and coinsurance.
    The estimated cost of these retiree benefit payments is accrued
    during the employees  active service.

The Company uses a measurement date of September 30 for its
    retirement plans. The following table summarizes benefit
    obligation and plan asset activity for the retirement plans:

The following table provides information for pension plans with
    benefit obligations in excess of plan assets:

94  U.S. BANCORP  

The following table sets forth the components of net periodic
    benefit cost and other amounts recognized in accumulated other
    comprehensive income for the retirement plans:

(a)

The
    estimated net loss and prior service credit for the defined
    benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated
    other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost in
    2008 are $32 million and $(6) million,
    respectively.   

(b)

The
    estimated net gain for the postretirement medical plan that will
    be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into
    net periodic benefit cost in 2008 is $4 million.   

The following table sets forth weighted average assumptions used
    to determine end of year obligations:

(a)

For
    2007, the discount rate was developed using Towers Perrin s
    cash flow matching bond model with a modified duration for the
    pension plans and postretirement medical plan of 12.5 and
    7.9 years, respectively. For 2006, the discount rate was
    developed using Towers Perrin s cash flow matching bond
    model with a modified duration of 12.6 years for all
    employee benefit plans.   

(b)

The
    pre-65 and post-65 rates are assumed to decrease gradually to
    5.5 percent by 2012 and 6.0 percent by 2013,
    respectively, and remain at these levels thereafter.   

*

Not
    applicable   

The following table sets forth weighted average assumptions used
    to determine net periodic benefit cost:

(a)

The
    pre-65 and post-65 rates are assumed to decrease gradually to
    5.5 percent and 6.0 percent, respectively, by 2012 and
    remain at these levels thereafter.   

*

Not
    applicable.   

U.S. BANCORP  95  

In 2008, the Company expects to contribute $21 million to
    its non-qualified pension plans and to make no contributions to
    its postretirement medical plan.

The following benefit payments are expected to be paid from the
    retirement plans:

(a)

Net
    of participant contributions.   

Federal subsidies expected to be received by the postretirement
    medical plan are not significant to the Company.

Note 17       STOCK-BASED
    COMPENSATION

As part of its employee and director compensation programs, the
    Company may grant certain stock awards under the provisions of
    the existing stock compensation plans, including plans assumed
    in acquisitions. The plans provide for grants of options to
    purchase shares of common stock at a fixed price equal to the
    fair value of the underlying stock at the date of grant. Option
    grants are generally exercisable up to ten years from the date
    of grant. In addition, the plans provide for grants of shares of
    common stock or stock units that are subject to restriction on
    transfer prior to vesting. Most stock awards vest over three to
    five years and are subject to forfeiture if certain vesting
    requirements are not met. Stock incentive plans of acquired
    companies are generally terminated at the merger closing dates.
    Option holders under such plans receive the Company s
    common stock, or options to buy the Company s stock, based
    on the conversion terms of the various merger agreements. The
    historical stock award information presented below has been
    restated to reflect the options originally granted under
    acquired companies  plans. At December 31, 2007, there
    were 68 million shares (subject to adjustment for
    forfeitures) available for grant under various plans.

STOCK OPTIONS AWARDS

The following is a summary of stock options outstanding and
    exercised under various stock options plans of the Company:

(a)

Options
    cancelled includes both non-vested (i.e., forfeitures) and
    vested options.   

(b)

Outstanding
    options include stock-based awards that may be forfeited in
    future periods, however the impact of the estimated forfeitures
    is reflected in compensation expense.   

96  U.S. BANCORP  

Stock-based compensation expense is based on the estimated fair
    value of the award at the date of grant or modification. The
    fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of
    grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, requiring
    the use of subjective assumptions. Because employee stock
    options have characteristics that differ from those of traded
    options, including vesting provisions and trading limitations
    that impact their liquidity, the determined value used to
    measure compensation expense may vary from their actual fair
    value. The following table includes the weighted average
    estimated fair value and assumptions utilized by the Company for
    newly issued grants:

Expected stock volatility is based on several factors including
    the historical volatility of the Company s stock, implied
    volatility determined from traded options and other factors. The
    Company uses historical data to estimate option exercises and
    employee terminations to estimate the expected life of options.
    The risk-free interest rate for the expected life of the options
    is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect on the
    date of grant. The expected dividend yield is based on the
    Company s expected dividend yield over the life of the
    options.

The aggregate fair value of option shares vested was
    $61 million and $81 million for 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. The intrinsic value of options exercised was
    $192 million, $346 million and $161 million for
    2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Cash received from option exercises under all share-based
    payment arrangements was $400 million, $885 million
    and $367 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The
    tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option
    exercises of the share-based payment arrangements totaled
    $73 million, $131 million and $60 million for
    2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. To satisfy option exercises,
    the Company predominantly uses treasury stock.

Additional information regarding stock options outstanding as of
    December 31, 2007, is as follows:

RESTRICTED STOCK
    AWARDS

A summary of the status of the Company s restricted shares
    of stock is presented below:

U.S. BANCORP  97  

The total fair value of shares vested was $45 million,
    $15 million, and $15 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.

Stock-based compensation expense was $77 million,
    $101 million and $132 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. At the time employee stock options expire, are
    exercised or cancelled, the Company determines the tax benefit
    associated with the stock award and under certain circumstances
    may be required to recognize an adjustment to tax expense. On an
    after-tax basis, stock-based compensation was $48 million,
    $64 million and $83 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005,
    respectively. As of December 31, 2007, there was
    $118 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
    related to nonvested share-based arrangements granted under the
    plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a
    weighted-average period of 3 years as compensation.

Note 18       INCOME
    TAXES

The components of income tax expense were:

A reconciliation of expected income tax expense at the federal
    statutory rate of 35 percent to the Company s
    applicable income tax expense follows:

The tax effects of fair value adjustments on securities
    available-for-sale, derivative instruments in cash flow hedges
    and certain tax benefits related to stock options are recorded
    directly to shareholders  equity as part of other
    comprehensive income.

In preparing its tax returns, the Company is required to
    interpret complex tax laws and regulations and utilize income
    and cost allocation methods to determine its taxable income. On
    an ongoing basis, the Company is subject to examinations by
    federal, state and local government taxing authorities that may
    give rise to differing interpretations of these complex laws,
    regulations and methods. Due to the nature of the examination
    process, it generally takes years before these examinations are
    completed and matters are resolved. Included in each of the last
    three years were reductions in income tax expense and associated
    liabilities related to the resolution of various federal and
    state income tax examinations. The federal income tax
    examination resolutions cover substantially all of the
    Company s legal entities for the years through 2004. The
    Company also resolved several state income tax examinations
    which cover varying years from 1998 through 2005 in different
    states. The resolution of these cycles was the result of
    negotiations held between the Company and representatives of
    various taxing authorities throughout the examinations. During
    2007, the Internal Revenue Service commenced examination of the
    Company s tax returns for the years ended December 31,
    2005 and 2006. The years open to examination by state and local
    government authorities vary by jurisdiction.

98  U.S. BANCORP  

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted the
    provisions of FIN 48. The adoption of FIN 48 did not
    result in a cumulative-effect accounting adjustment for the
    Company. The Company classifies interest and penalties related
    to unrecognized tax positions as a component of income tax
    expense. At January 1, 2007, the Company s total
    amount of unrecognized tax positions were $364 million, of
    which $237 million related to unrecognized tax positions
    that if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate. In
    addition, the amount accrued for the payment of interest on
    unrecognized tax positions was $22 million.

A reconciliation of the change in the federal, state and foreign
    unrecognized tax positions balance from January 1, 2007 to
    December 31, 2007 follows:

The total amount of unrecognized tax positions that, if
    recognized would impact the effective income tax rate as of
    December 31, 2007, was $192 million. During the year
    ended December 31, 2007, the Company recognized
    approximately $13 million in interest and had approximately
    $35 million accrued for the payment of interest at
    December 31, 2007.

The Company completed its analysis of uncertain tax positions as
    of December 31, 2007. While certain examinations may be
    concluded, statutes may lapse or other developments may occur.
    The Company does not believe that a significant increase or
    decrease in the uncertain tax positions will occur over the next
    twelve months.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflect the tax
    effect of estimated temporary differences between the carrying
    amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
    purposes and the amounts used for the same items for income tax
    reporting purposes.

The significant components of the Company s net deferred
    tax liability as of December 31 were:

The Company has established a valuation allowance to offset
    deferred tax assets related to federal, state and foreign net
    operating loss carryforwards which are subject to various
    limitations under the respective income tax laws and some of
    which may expire unused. The Company has approximately
    $413 million of federal, state and foreign net operating
    loss carryforwards which expire at various times through 2024.

Certain events covered by Internal Revenue Code
    section 593(e), which was not repealed, will trigger a

U.S. BANCORP  99  

recapture of base year reserves of acquired thrift institutions.
    The base year reserves of acquired thrift institutions would be
    recaptured if an entity ceases to qualify as a bank for federal
    income tax purposes. The base year reserves of thrift
    institutions also remain subject to income tax penalty
    provisions that, in general, require recapture upon certain
    stock redemptions of, and excess distributions to, stockholders.
    At December 31, 2007, retained earnings included
    approximately $102 million of base year reserves for which
    no deferred federal income tax liability has been recognized.

Note 19       DERIVATIVE
    INSTRUMENTS

In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into
    derivative transactions to manage its interest rate, prepayment,
    credit, price and foreign currency risks and to accommodate the
    business requirements of its customers. The Company does not
    enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes.
    Refer to Note 1  Significant Accounting Policies 
    in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a
    discussion of the Company s accounting policies for
    derivative instruments. For information related to derivative
    positions held for asset and liability management purposes and
    customer-related derivative positions, see Table 18
     Derivative Positions,  included in Management s
    Discussion and Analysis, which is incorporated by reference in
    these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

ASSET AND LIABILITY
    MANAGEMENT POSITIONS

Cash Flow Hedges
       The Company has
    $16.0 billion of designated cash flow hedges at
    December 31, 2007. These derivatives are interest rate
    swaps that are hedges of the forecasted cash flows from the
    underlying variable-rate debt. All cash flow hedges are highly
    effective for the year ended December 31, 2007, and the
    change in fair value attributed to hedge ineffectiveness was not
    material.

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, accumulated other
    comprehensive income included a deferred after-tax net loss of
    $219 million and $83 million, respectively, related to
    cash flow hedges. The unrealized loss will be reflected in
    earnings when the related cash flows or hedged transactions
    occur and will offset the related performance of the hedged
    items. The occurrence of these related cash flows and hedged
    transactions remains probable. The estimated amount of after-tax
    loss to be reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive
    income into earnings during 2008 is $106 million. This
    includes gains related to hedges that were terminated early and
    the forecasted transactions are still probable.

Fair Value
    Hedges     The Company may
    use derivatives that are primarily interest rate swaps that
    hedge the change in fair value related to interest rate changes
    of underlying fixed-rate debt, junior subordinated debentures
    and deposit obligations. In addition, the Company may use
    forward commitments to sell residential mortgage loans to hedge
    its interest rate risk related to residential mortgage loans
    held for sale. The Company commits to sell the loans at
    specified prices in a future period, typically within
    90 days, and is exposed to interest rate risk during the
    period between issuing a loan commitment and the sale of the
    loan into the secondary market.

The Company has $7.3 billion of designated fair value
    hedges at December 31, 2007. All fair value hedges are
    considered highly effective for the year ended December 31,
    2007. The change in fair value attributed to hedge
    ineffectiveness was a loss of $7 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2007.

Net Investment
    Hedges     The Company
    enters into derivatives to protect its net investment in certain
    foreign operations. The Company uses forward commitments to sell
    specified amounts of certain foreign currencies and foreign
    denominated debt to hedge its capital volatility risk associated
    with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The net
    amount of gains or losses included in the cumulative translation
    adjustment for 2007 was not significant.

Other Derivative
    Positions     The Company
    has derivative positions that are used for interest rate risk
    and other risk management purposes but are not designated as
    cash flow hedges or fair value hedges in accordance with the
    provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
    Hedging Activities. 

At December 31, 2007, the Company had $2.8 billion of
    forward commitments to sell residential mortgage loans to hedge
    the Company s interest rate risk related to
    $3.7 billion of unfunded residential mortgage loan
    commitments. Gains and losses on mortgage banking derivatives
    and the unfunded loan commitments are included in mortgage
    banking revenue on the statement of income. At December 31,
    2007, the Company also held U.S. Treasury futures, options
    on U.S. Treasury futures contracts, forward commitments to
    buy residential mortgage loans and interest rate swaps to
    economically hedge the change in fair value of its residential
    MSRs.

CUSTOMER-RELATED
    POSITIONS

The Company acts as a seller and buyer of interest rate
    contracts and foreign exchange rate contracts on behalf of
    customers. At December 31, 2007, the Company had
    $40.9 billion of aggregate customer derivative positions,
    including $33.4 billion of interest rate swaps, caps and

100  U.S. BANCORP  

floors, and $7.5 billion of foreign exchange rate
    contracts. The Company minimizes its market and liquidity risks
    by taking similar offsetting positions. Gains or losses on
    customer-related transactions were not significant for the year
    ended December 31, 2007.

Note 20       FAIR
    VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Due to the nature of its business and its customers  needs,
    the Company offers a large number of financial instruments, most
    of which are not actively traded. When market quotes are
    unavailable, valuation techniques, including discounted cash
    flow calculations and pricing models or services, are used. The
    Company also uses various aggregation methods and assumptions,
    such as the discount rate and cash flow timing and amounts. As a
    result, the fair value estimates can neither be substantiated by
    independent market comparisons, nor realized by the immediate
    sale or settlement of the financial instrument. Also, the
    estimates reflect a point in time and could change significantly
    based on changes in economic factors, such as interest rates.
    Furthermore, the disclosure of certain financial and
    nonfinancial assets and liabilities is not required. Finally,
    the fair value disclosure is not intended to estimate a market
    value of the Company as a whole. A summary of the Company s
    valuation techniques and assumptions follows.

Cash and Cash
    Equivalents     The
    carrying value of cash, amounts due from banks, federal funds
    sold and securities purchased under resale agreements was
    assumed to approximate fair value.

Securities
       Investment securities
    were valued using available market quotes. In some instances,
    for securities that are not widely traded, market quotes for
    comparable securities were used.

Loans
       The loan portfolio
    includes adjustable and fixed-rate loans, the fair value of
    which was estimated using discounted cash flow analyses and
    other valuation techniques. To calculate discounted cash flows,
    the loans were aggregated into pools of similar types and
    expected repayment terms. The expected cash flows of loans
    considered historical prepayment experiences and estimated
    credit losses for nonperforming loans and were discounted using
    current rates offered to borrowers of similar credit
    characteristics. The fair value of adjustable rate loans is
    assumed to be equal to their par value.

Deposit
    Liabilities     The fair
    value of demand deposits, savings accounts and certain money
    market deposits is equal to the amount payable on demand at
    year-end. The fair value of fixed-rate certificates of deposit
    was estimated by discounting the contractual cash flow using the
    discount rates implied by high-grade corporate bond yield curves.

Short-term
    Borrowings     Federal
    funds purchased, securities sold under agreements to repurchase,
    commercial paper and other short-term funds borrowed have
    floating rates or short-term maturities. Their par value is
    assumed to approximate their fair value.

Long-term Debt
       The estimated fair value
    of medium-term notes, bank notes, and subordinated debt was
    determined by using discounted cash flow analysis based on
    high-grade corporate bond yield curves. Floating rate debt is
    assumed to be equal to par value. Capital trust and other
    long-term debt instruments were valued using market quotes.

Interest Rate
    Swaps, Equity Contracts and Options
       The interest rate
    options and swap cash flows were estimated using a third-party
    pricing model and discounted based on appropriate LIBOR,
    eurodollar futures, swap, treasury note yield curves and equity
    market prices.

Loan Commitments,
    Letters of Credit and Guarantees
       The fair value of
    commitments, letters of credit and guarantees represents the
    estimated costs to terminate or otherwise settle the obligations
    with a third-party. Residential mortgage commitments are
    actively traded and the fair value is estimated using available
    market quotes. Other loan commitments, letters of credit and
    guarantees are not actively traded. Substantially all loan
    commitments have floating rates and do not expose the Company to
    interest rate risk, assuming no premium or discount was ascribed
    to loan commitments because funding could occur at market rates.
    The Company estimates the fair value of loan commitments,
    letters of credit and guarantees based on the related amount of
    unamortized deferred commitment fees, adjusted for the probable
    losses for these arrangements.

U.S. BANCORP  101  

The estimated fair values of the Company s financial
    instruments at December 31 are shown in the table below.

The fair value of unfunded commitments, standby letters of
    credit and other guarantees is approximately equal to their
    carrying value. The carrying value of unfunded commitments and
    standby letters of credit was $313 million. The carrying
    value of other guarantees was $290 million.

Note 21       GUARANTEES
    AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

COMMITMENTS TO
    EXTEND CREDIT

Commitments to extend credit are legally binding and generally
    have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses. The
    contractual amount represents the Company s exposure to
    credit loss, in the event of default by the borrower. The
    Company manages this credit risk by using the same credit
    policies it applies to loans. Collateral is obtained to secure
    commitments based on management s credit assessment of the
    borrower. The collateral may include marketable securities,
    receivables, inventory, equipment and real estate. Since the
    Company expects many of the commitments to expire without being
    drawn, total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent the
    Company s future liquidity requirements. In addition, the
    commitments include consumer credit lines that are cancelable
    upon notification to the consumer.

LETTERS OF CREDIT

Standby letters of credit are commitments the Company issues to
    guarantee the performance of a customer to a third-party. The
    guarantees frequently support public and private borrowing
    arrangements, including commercial paper issuances, bond
    financings and other similar transactions. The Company issues
    commercial letters of credit on behalf of customers to ensure
    payment or collection in connection with trade transactions. In
    the event of a customer s nonperformance, the
    Company s credit loss exposure is the same as in any
    extension of credit, up to the letter s contractual amount.
    Management assesses the borrower s credit to determine the
    necessary collateral, which may include marketable securities,
    receivables, inventory, equipment and real estate. Since the
    conditions requiring the

102  U.S. BANCORP  

Company to fund letters of credit may not occur, the Company
    expects its liquidity requirements to be less than the total
    outstanding commitments. The maximum potential future payments
    guaranteed by the Company under standby letter of credit
    arrangements at December 31, 2007, were approximately
    $12.7 billion with a weighted-average term of approximately
    23 months. The estimated fair value of standby letters of
    credit was $90 million at December 31, 2007.

The contract or notional amounts of commitments to extend credit
    and letters of credit at December 31, 2007, were as follows:

(a)

Primarily
    cancelable at the Company s discretion.   

LEASE COMMITMENTS

Rental expense for operating leases amounted to
    $207 million in 2007, $193 million in 2006 and
    $192 million in 2005. Future minimum payments, net of
    sublease rentals, under capitalized leases and noncancelable
    operating leases with initial or remaining terms of one year or
    more, consisted of the following at December 31, 2007:

GUARANTEES

Guarantees are contingent commitments issued by the Company to
    customers or other third-parties. The Company s guarantees
    primarily include parent guarantees related to
    subsidiaries  third-party borrowing arrangements;
    third-party performance guarantees inherent in the
    Company s business operations, such as indemnified
    securities lending programs and merchant charge-back guarantees;
    indemnification or buy-back provisions related to certain asset
    sales; and contingent consideration arrangements related to
    acquisitions. For certain guarantees, the Company has recorded a
    liability related to the potential obligation, or has access to
    collateral to support the guarantee or through the exercise of
    other recourse provisions can offset some or all of the maximum
    potential future payments made under these guarantees.

Third-Party
    Borrowing Arrangements
       The Company provides
    guarantees to third-parties as a part of certain
    subsidiaries  borrowing arrangements, primarily
    representing guaranteed operating or capital lease payments or
    other debt obligations with maturity dates extending through
    2013. The maximum potential future payments guaranteed by the
    Company under these arrangements were approximately
    $331 million at December 31, 2007. The Company s
    recorded liabilities as of December 31, 2007, included
    $1 million representing outstanding amounts owed to these
    third-parties and required to be recorded on the Company s
    balance sheet in accordance with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States.

Commitments from
    Securities Lending    The
    Company participates in securities lending activities by acting
    as the customer s agent involving the loan of securities.
    The Company indemnifies customers for the difference between the
    market value of the securities lent and the market value of the
    collateral received. Cash collateralizes these transactions. The
    maximum potential future payments guaranteed by the Company
    under these arrangements were approximately $13.9 billion
    at December 31, 2007, and represented the market value of
    the securities lent to third-parties. At December 31, 2007,
    the Company held assets with a market value of
    $14.3 billion as collateral for these arrangements.

Assets Sales
       The Company has provided
    guarantees to certain third-parties in connection with the sale
    of certain assets, primarily loan portfolios and low-income
    housing tax credits. These guarantees are generally in the form
    of asset buy-back or make-whole provisions that are triggered
    upon a credit event or a change in the tax-qualifying status of
    the related projects, as applicable, and remain in effect until
    the loans are collected or final tax credits are realized,
    respectively. The maximum potential future payments guaranteed
    by the Company under these arrangements were approximately
    $500 million at December 31, 2007, and represented the
    proceeds or the guaranteed portion received from the buyer in
    these transactions where the buy-back or make-whole provisions
    have not yet expired. Recourse available to the Company includes
    guarantees from the Small Business Administration (for SBA loans
    sold), recourse

U.S. BANCORP  103  

against the correspondent that originated the loan or the
    private mortgage issuer, the right to collect payments from the
    debtors,
     and/or  the
    right to liquidate the underlying collateral, if any, and retain
    the proceeds. Based on its established loan-to-value guidelines,
    the Company believes the recourse available is sufficient to
    recover future payments, if any, under the loan buy-back
    guarantees.

Merchant
    Processing    The Company,
    through its subsidiaries, provides merchant processing services.
    Under the rules of credit card associations, a merchant
    processor retains a contingent liability for credit card
    transactions processed. This contingent liability arises in the
    event of a billing dispute between the merchant and a cardholder
    that is ultimately resolved in the cardholder s favor. In
    this situation, the transaction is  charged-back  to
    the merchant and the disputed amount is credited or otherwise
    refunded to the cardholder. If the Company is unable to collect
    this amount from the merchant, it bears the loss for the amount
    of the refund paid to the cardholder.

A cardholder, through its issuing bank, generally has until the
    latter of up to four months after the date the transaction is
    processed or the receipt of the product or service to present a
    charge-back to the Company as the merchant processor. The
    absolute maximum potential liability is estimated to be the
    total volume of credit card transactions that meet the
    associations  requirements to be valid charge-back
    transactions at any given time. Management estimates that the
    maximum potential exposure for charge-backs would approximate
    the total amount of merchant transactions processed through the
    credit card associations for the last four months. For the last
    four months this amount totaled approximately
    $73.0 billion. In most cases, this contingent liability is
    unlikely to arise, as most products and services are delivered
    when purchased and amounts are refunded when items are returned
    to merchants. However, where the product or service is not
    provided until a future date ( future delivery ), the
    potential for this contingent liability increases. To mitigate
    this risk, the Company may require the merchant to make an
    escrow deposit, may place maximum volume limitations on future
    delivery transactions processed by the merchant at any point in
    time, or may require various credit enhancements (including
    letters of credit and bank guarantees). Also, merchant
    processing contracts may include event triggers to provide the
    Company more financial and operational control in the event of
    financial deterioration of the merchant.

The Company s primary exposure to future delivery is
    related to merchant processing for airlines, cruise lines and
    large tour operators. The Company currently processes card
    transactions in the United States, Canada and Europe for
    airlines, cruise lines and large tour operators. In the event of
    liquidation of these merchants, the Company could become
    financially liable for refunding tickets purchased through the
    credit card associations under the charge-back provisions.
    Charge-back risk related to these merchants is evaluated in a
    manner similar to credit risk assessments and, as such, merchant
    processing contracts contain various provisions to protect the
    Company in the event of default. At December 31, 2007, the
    value of airline, cruise line and large tour operator tickets
    purchased to be delivered at a future date was
    $4.0 billion, with airline tickets representing
    91 percent of that amount. The Company held collateral of
    $943 million in escrow deposits, letters of credit and
    indemnities from financial institutions, and liens on various
    assets. With respect to future delivery risk for other
    merchants, the Company held $52 million of merchant escrow
    deposits as collateral. In addition to specific collateral or
    other credit enhancements, the Company maintains a liability for
    its implied guarantees associated with future delivery. At
    December 31, 2007, the liability was $33 million
    primarily related to these airlines, cruise lines and large tour
    operators processing arrangements.

In the normal course of business, the Company has unresolved
    charge-backs that are in process of resolution. The Company
    assesses the likelihood of its potential liability based on the
    extent and nature of unresolved charge-backs and its historical
    loss experience. At December 31, 2007, the Company had a
    recorded liability for potential losses of $17 million.

Contingent
    Consideration Arrangements
       The Company has
    contingent payment obligations related to certain business
    combination transactions. Payments are guaranteed as long as
    certain post-acquisition performance-based criteria are met or
    customer relationships are maintained. At December 31,
    2007, the maximum potential future payments required to be made
    by the Company under these arrangements was approximately
    $13 million. If required, the majority of these contingent
    payments are payable within the next 12 months.

Minimum Revenue
    Guarantees    In the normal
    course of business, the Company may enter into revenue share
    agreements with third party business partners who generate
    customer referrals or provide marketing or other services
    related to the generation of revenue. In certain of these
    agreements, the Company may guarantee that a minimum amount of
    revenue share payments will be made to the third party over a
    specified period of time. At December 31, 2007, the maximum
    potential future payments required to be made by the Company
    under these agreements was $24 million.

Other Guarantees
       The Company provides
    liquidity and credit enhancement facilities to a
    Company-sponsored conduit, as more fully described in the
     Off-Balance Sheet

104  U.S. BANCORP  

Arrangements  section within Management s Discussion
    and Analysis. Although management believes a draw against these
    facilities is remote, the maximum potential future payments
    guaranteed by the Company under these arrangements were
    approximately $1.2 billion at December 31, 2007. The
    recorded fair value of the Company s liability for the
    credit enhancement liquidity facility was $2 million at
    December 31, 2007, and was included in other liabilities.

The Company has also made financial performance guarantees
    related to the operations of its subsidiaries. The maximum
    potential future payments guaranteed by the Company under these
    arrangements were approximately $2.1 billion at
    December 31, 2007.

OTHER CONTINGENT
    LIABILITIES

Visa
    Restructuring and Card Association Litigation
       The Company s
    payment services business issues and acquires credit and debit
    card transactions through the Visa U.S.A. Inc. card association
    ( Visa U.S.A. ) or its affiliates (collectively
     Visa ). On October 3, 2007, Visa completed a
    restructuring and issued shares of Visa Inc. common stock to its
    financial institution members in contemplation of its initial
    public offering ( IPO ) anticipated in the first
    quarter of 2008 (the  Visa Reorganization ). In
    addition, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries have been
    named as defendants along with Visa U.S.A. and MasterCard
    International (the  Card Associations ), as well as
    several other banks, in antitrust lawsuits challenging the
    practices of the Card Associations (the  Visa
    Litigation ). Visa U.S.A. member banks have a contingent
    obligation to indemnify Visa Inc. under the Visa U.S.A. bylaws
    (which were modified at the time of the restructuring in October
    2007) for potential losses arising from the Visa
    Litigation. The Company has also entered into judgment and loss
    sharing agreements with Visa U.S.A. and certain other banks in
    order to apportion financial responsibilities arising from any
    potential adverse judgment or negotiated settlements related to
    the Visa Litigation.

As a part of the Visa Reorganization, the Company received its
    proportionate number of Class U.S.A. shares of Visa Inc.
    common stock. In connection with the IPO, it is expected that a
    portion of these shares will be redeemed for cash, with the
    remaining shares to be converted to Class A shares three
    years after the IPO or upon settlement of the Visa Litigation,
    whichever is later. Additionally, Visa Inc. is expected to set
    aside a portion of the proceeds from the IPO in an escrow
    account for the benefit of member financial institutions to fund
    the expenses of the Visa Litigation as well as the members 
    proportionate share of any judgments or settlements that may
    arise out of the Visa Litigation. On November 7, 2007, Visa
    announced the settlement of the portion of the Visa Litigation
    involving American Express, and accordingly, the Company
    recorded a $115 million charge in the third quarter of 2007
    for its proportionate share of this settlement.

In addition to the liability related to the settlement with
    American Express, Visa U.S.A. member banks are required to
    recognize the contingent obligation to indemnify Visa Inc. under
    the Visa U.S.A. bylaws for potential losses arising from the
    remaining Visa Litigation at the estimated fair value of such
    obligation in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards
    Board Interpretation No. 45,  Guarantor s
    Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
    Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others.  The
    contingent obligation of member banks under the Visa U.S.A.
    bylaws has no specified maximum amount. While the estimation of
    any potential losses related to this litigation is highly
    judgmental, the Company recognized a charge of approximately
    $215 million in the fourth quarter of 2007.

Upon completion of the anticipated IPO, the Company expects to
    recognize a gain related to its interest in Visa Inc. The amount
    of the gain will be based on the fair value of any Visa Inc.
    shares utilized to establish the escrow account (limited to the
    amount of the obligation recorded) and the Visa Inc. shares
    redeemed for cash. The Company expects the value of these Visa
    Inc. shares to exceed the aggregate of the $115 million and
    $215 million litigation charges recorded by the Company in
    the third and fourth quarter of 2007, respectively.

Other
       The Company is subject
    to various other litigation, investigations and legal and
    administrative cases and proceedings that arise in the ordinary
    course of its businesses. Due to their complex nature, it may be
    years before some matters are resolved. While it is impossible
    to ascertain the ultimate resolution or range of financial
    liability with respect to these contingent matters, the Company
    believes that the aggregate amount of such liabilities will not
    have a material adverse effect on the financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows of the Company.

U.S. BANCORP  105  

Note 22       U.S. BANCORP
    (PARENT COMPANY)

CONDENSED
    BALANCE SHEET  

CONDENSED
    STATEMENT OF INCOME  

106  U.S. BANCORP  

CONDENSED
    STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  

Transfer of funds (dividends, loans or advances) from bank
    subsidiaries to the Company is restricted. Federal law requires
    loans to the Company or its affiliates to be secured and
    generally limits loans to the Company or an individual affiliate
    to 10 percent of each bank s unimpaired capital and
    surplus. In the aggregate, loans to the Company and all
    affiliates cannot exceed 20 percent of each bank s
    unimpaired capital and surplus.

Dividend payments to the Company by its subsidiary banks are
    subject to regulatory review and statutory limitations and, in
    some instances, regulatory approval. The approval of the
    Comptroller of the Currency is required if total dividends by a
    national bank in any calendar year exceed the bank s net
    income for that year combined with its retained net income for
    the preceding two calendar years, or if the bank s retained
    earnings are less than zero. Furthermore, dividends are
    restricted by the Comptroller of the Currency s minimum
    capital constraints for all national banks. Within these
    guidelines, all bank subsidiaries have the ability to pay
    dividends without prior regulatory approval. The amount of
    dividends available to the parent company from the bank
    subsidiaries at December 31, 2007, was approximately
    $1.1 billion.

U.S. BANCORP  107  

U.S. Bancorp

Consolidated
    Balance Sheet   Five Year Summary

108  U.S. BANCORP  

U.S. Bancorp

Consolidated Statement of Income   Five Year Summary

* Not
    meaningful  

U.S. BANCORP  109  

U.S. Bancorp

Quarterly
    Consolidated Financial Data

110  U.S. BANCORP  

U.S. Bancorp

Supplemental
    Financial Data

(a)

Defined
    as total common shares less common stock held in treasury at
    December 31.   

(b)

Based
    on number of common stock shareholders of record at
    December 31.   

STOCK
    PRICE RANGE AND DIVIDENDS  

The common stock of U.S. Bancorp is traded on the New York Stock
    Exchange, under the ticker symbol  USB.  At
    January 31, 2008, there were 63,721 holders of record
    of the Company s common stock.

STOCK PERFORMANCE
    CHART

The following chart compares the cumulative total shareholder
    return on the Company s common stock during the five years
    ended December 31, 2007, with the cumulative total return
    on the Standard   Poor s 500 Commercial Bank
    Index and the Standard   Poor s 500 Index. The
    comparison assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2002,
    in the Company s common stock and in each of the foregoing
    indices and assumes the reinvestment of all dividends.

U.S. BANCORP  111  

U.S. Bancorp

Consolidated
    Daily Average Balance Sheet and

(a)

Interest
    and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis
    utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent.   

(b)

Interest
    income and rates on loans include loan fees. Nonaccrual loans
    are included in average loan balances.   

(c)

Includes
    approximately $1,427 million of earning assets from
    discontinued operations in 2003.   

(d)

Includes
    approximately $1,034 million of interest-bearing
    liabilities from discontinued operations in 2003.   

112  U.S. BANCORP  

Related
    Yields and Rates (a)

U.S. BANCORP  113  

Company Information

General Business
    Description
       U.S. Bancorp is a
    multi-state financial services holding company headquartered in
    Minneapolis, Minnesota. U.S. Bancorp was incorporated in
    Delaware in 1929 and operates as a financial holding company and
    a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of
    1956. U.S. Bancorp provides a full range of financial
    services, including lending and depository services, cash
    management, foreign exchange and trust and investment management
    services. It also engages in credit card services, merchant and
    ATM processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and
    leasing.

U.S. Bancorp s banking subsidiaries are engaged in the
    general banking business, principally in domestic markets. The
    subsidiaries range in size from $39 million to
    $139 billion in deposits and provide a wide range of
    products and services to individuals, businesses, institutional
    organizations, governmental entities and other financial
    institutions. Commercial and consumer lending services are
    principally offered to customers within the Company s
    domestic markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations
    and within certain niche national venues. Lending services
    include traditional credit products as well as credit card
    services, financing and import/export trade, asset-backed
    lending, agricultural finance and other products. Leasing
    products are offered through bank leasing subsidiaries.
    Depository services include checking accounts, savings accounts
    and time certificate contracts. Ancillary services such as
    foreign exchange, treasury management and receivable lock-box
    collection are provided to corporate customers.
    U.S. Bancorp s bank and trust subsidiaries provide a
    full range of asset management and fiduciary services for
    individuals, estates, foundations, business corporations and
    charitable organizations.

U.S. Bancorp s non-banking subsidiaries primarily
    offer investment and insurance products to the Company s
    customers principally within its markets and mutual fund
    processing services to a broad range of mutual funds.

Banking and investment services are provided through a network
    of 2,518 banking offices principally operating in 24 states
    in the Midwest and West. The Company operates a network of 4,867
    branded ATMs and provides
     24-hour, 
    seven day a week telephone customer service. Mortgage banking
    services are provided through banking offices and loan
    production offices throughout the Company s markets.
    Consumer lending products may be originated through banking
    offices, indirect correspondents, brokers or other lending
    sources, and a consumer finance division. The Company is also
    one of the largest providers of
    Visa   
    corporate and purchasing card services and corporate trust
    services in the United States. A wholly-owned subsidiary, NOVA
    Information Systems, Inc. ( NOVA ), provides merchant
    processing services directly to merchants and through a network
    of banking affiliations. Affiliates of NOVA provide similar
    merchant services in Canada and segments of Europe. These
    foreign operations are not significant to the Company.

On a full-time equivalent basis, as of December 31, 2007
    U.S. Bancorp employed 52,277 people.

Competition
       The commercial banking
    business is highly competitive. Subsidiary banks compete with
    other commercial banks and with other financial institutions,
    including savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks,
    finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions and
    investment companies. In recent years, competition has increased
    from institutions not subject to the same regulatory
    restrictions as domestic banks and bank holding companies.

Government
    Policies    The operations
    of the Company s various operating units are affected by
    state and federal legislative changes and by policies of various
    regulatory authorities, including those of the numerous states
    in which they operate, the United States and foreign
    governments. These policies include, for example, statutory
    maximum legal lending rates, domestic monetary policies of the
    Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, United States
    fiscal policy, international currency regulations and monetary
    policies, U.S. Patriot Act and capital adequacy and
    liquidity constraints imposed by bank regulatory agencies.

Supervision and
    Regulation    As a
    registered bank holding company and financial holding company
    under the Bank Holding Company Act, U.S. Bancorp is subject
    to the supervision of, and regulation by, the Board of Governors
    of the Federal Reserve System.

Under the Bank Holding Company Act, a financial holding company
    may engage in banking, managing or controlling banks, furnishing
    or performing services for banks it controls, and conducting
    other financial activities. U.S. Bancorp must obtain the
    prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring
    more than 5 percent of the outstanding shares of another
    bank or bank holding company, and must provide notice to, and in
    some situations obtain the prior approval of, the Federal
    Reserve Board in connection with engaging in, or acquiring more
    than 5 percent of the outstanding shares of a company
    engaged in, a new financial activity.

Under the Bank Holding Company Act, U.S. Bancorp may
    acquire banks throughout the United States, subject only to
    state or federal deposit caps and state minimum age requirements.

114  U.S. BANCORP  

National banks are subject to the supervision of, and are
    examined by, the Comptroller of the Currency. All subsidiary
    banks of the Company are members of the Federal Deposit
    Insurance Corporation and are subject to examination by the
    FDIC. In practice, the primary federal regulator makes regular
    examinations of each subsidiary bank subject to its regulatory
    review or participates in joint examinations with other federal
    regulators. Areas subject to regulation by federal authorities
    include the allowance for credit losses, investments, loans,
    mergers, issuance of securities, payment of dividends,
    establishment of branches and other aspects of operations.

Properties
       U.S. Bancorp and
    its significant subsidiaries occupy headquarter offices under a
    long-term lease in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Company also
    leases seven freestanding operations centers in Cincinnati,
    Denver, Milwaukee, Minneapolis, Portland and St. Paul. The
    Company owns ten principal operations centers in Cincinnati,
    Coeur d Alene, Fargo, Milwaukee, Owensboro, Portland,
    St. Louis and St. Paul. At December 31, 2007, the
    Company s subsidiaries owned and operated a total of 1,485
    facilities and leased an additional 1,429 facilities, all of
    which are well maintained. The Company believes its current
    facilities are adequate to meet its needs. Additional
    information with respect to premises and equipment is presented
    in Notes 8 and 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Risk Factors
       There are a number of
    factors, including those specified below, that may adversely
    affect the Company s business, financial results or stock
    price. Additional risks that the Company currently does not know
    about or currently views as immaterial may also impair the
    Company s business or adversely impact its financial
    results or stock price.

Industry Risk
    Factors   

The
    Company s business and financial results are significantly
    affected by general business and economic conditions
        The Company s
    business activities and earnings are affected by general
    business conditions in the United States and abroad. These
    conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates,
    inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity
    capital markets, and the strength of the United States economy
    and the local economies in which the Company operates. For
    example, an economic downturn, an increase in unemployment, a
    decline in real estate values or other events that affect
    household
     and/or 
    corporate incomes could result in a deterioration of credit
    quality, a change in the allowance for credit losses, or reduced
    demand for credit or fee-based products and services. Changes in
    the financial performance and condition of the Company s
    borrowers could negatively affect repayment of those
    borrowers  loans. In addition, changes in securities market
    conditions and monetary fluctuations could adversely affect the
    availability and terms of funding necessary to meet the
    Company s liquidity needs.

Changes in the
    domestic interest rate environment could reduce the
    Company s net interest income
        The operations of
    financial institutions such as the Company are dependent to a
    large degree on net interest income, which is the difference
    between interest income from loans and investments and interest
    expense on deposits and borrowings. An institution s net
    interest income is significantly affected by market rates of
    interest, which in turn are affected by prevailing economic
    conditions, by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal
    government and by the policies of various regulatory agencies.
    Like all financial institutions, the Company s balance
    sheet is affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Volatility
    in interest rates can also result in the flow of funds away from
    financial institutions into direct investments. Direct
    investments, such as U.S. Government and corporate
    securities and other investment vehicles (including mutual
    funds) generally pay higher rates of return than financial
    institutions, because of the absence of federal insurance
    premiums and reserve requirements.

Changes in the
    laws, regulations and policies governing financial services
    companies could alter the Company s business environment
    and adversely affect operations
        The Board of
    Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of
    money and credit in the United States. Its fiscal and monetary
    policies determine in a large part the Company s cost of
    funds for lending and investing and the return that can be
    earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the
    Company s net interest margin. Federal Reserve Board
    policies can also materially affect the value of financial
    instruments that the Company holds, such as debt securities and
    mortgage servicing rights.

The Company and its bank subsidiaries are heavily regulated at
    the federal and state levels. This regulation is to protect
    depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking
    system as a whole. Congress and state legislatures and federal
    and state agencies continually review banking laws, regulations
    and policies for possible changes. Changes in statutes,
    regulations or policies could affect the Company in substantial
    and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of
    financial services and products that the Company offers
     and/or 
    increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial
    services and products. The Company cannot predict whether any of
    this potential legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the
    effect that it or any regulations would have on the
    Company s financial condition or results of operations.

U.S. BANCORP  115  

The financial
    services industry is highly competitive, and competitive
    pressures could intensify and adversely affect the
    Company s financial results
        The Company operates
    in a highly competitive industry that could become even more
    competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and
    technological changes and continued consolidation. The Company
    competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan
    associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage
    banking companies, credit unions and investment companies. In
    addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it
    possible for non-banks to offer products and services
    traditionally provided by banks. Many of the Company s
    competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and some have
    lower cost structures. Also, the potential need to adapt to
    industry changes in information technology systems, on which the
    Company and financial services industry are highly dependent,
    could present operational issues and require capital spending.

Changes in
    consumer use of banks and changes in consumer spending and
    saving habits could adversely affect the Company s
    financial results
        Technology and other
    changes now allow many consumers to complete financial
    transactions without using banks. For example, consumers can pay
    bills and transfer funds directly without going through a bank.
    This  disintermediation  could result in the loss of
    fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income
    generated from those deposits. In addition, changes in consumer
    spending and saving habits could adversely affect the
    Company s operations, and the Company may be unable to
    timely develop competitive new products and services in response
    to these changes that are accepted by new and existing customers.

Acts or
    threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by
    the United States or other governments could adversely affect
    general economic or industry conditions
        Geopolitical
    conditions may also affect the Company s earnings. Acts or
    threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by
    the United States or other governments in response to terrorism,
    or similar activity, could adversely affect general economic or
    industry conditions.

Company Risk
    Factors   

The
    Company s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to
    cover actual losses
        Like all financial
    institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses
    to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The
    Company s allowance for loan losses is based on its
    historical loss experience as well as an evaluation of the risks
    associated with its loan portfolio, including the size and
    composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions
    and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. The strength
    of the United States economy and the local economies which the
    Company does business may be different than expected, resulting
    in, among other things, an increased deterioration in credit
    quality of our loan portfolio, or in the value of collateral
    securing those loans. The Company s allowance for loan
    losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and
    future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely
    affect its financial results.

The Company
    may suffer losses in its loan portfolio despite its underwriting
    practices     The
    Company seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan
    portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These
    practices often include: analysis of a borrower s credit
    history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow
    projections; valuation of collateral based on reports of
    independent appraisers; and verification of liquid assets.
    Although the Company believes that its underwriting criteria are
    appropriate for the various kinds of loans it makes, the Company
    may incur losses on loans that meet these criteria.

The
    Company s investment portfolio values may be adversely
    impacted by changing interest rates and deterioration in the
    credit quality of underlying collateral within a structured
    investment     The
    Company generally invests in government securities, securities
    issued by government-backed agencies or privately issued
    securities highly rated by credit rating agencies that may have
    limited credit risk, but, are subject to changes in market value
    due to changing interest rates and implied credit spreads.
    However, certain securities represent beneficial interests in
    structured investments which are collateralized by residential
    mortgages, collateralized debt obligations and other similar
    asset-backed assets. While these structured investments are
    highly rated by credit rating agencies at the time of initial
    investment, these credit ratings are subject to change due to
    deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying
    collateral. During recent months, these structured securities
    have been subject to significant market volatility due to the
    uncertainty of the credit ratings, deterioration in credit
    losses occurring within certain types of residential mortgages,
    changes in prepayments and the lack of transparency related to
    the structures and the collateral underlying the structured
    investment vehicles. Given recent market conditions and changing
    economic factors, the Company may have valuation losses or
    recognize impairment related to structured investments.

Maintaining or
    increasing the Company s market share may depend on
    lowering prices and market acceptance of new products and
    services     The
    Company s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt
    its products and services to evolving industry standards. There
    is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower
    prices. Lower prices

116  U.S. BANCORP  

can reduce the Company s net interest margin and revenues
    from its fee-based products and services. In addition, the
    widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet
    services, could require the Company to make substantial
    expenditures to modify or adapt the Company s existing
    products and services. Also, these and other capital investments
    in the Company s businesses may not produce expected growth
    in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. The
    Company might not be successful in introducing new products and
    services, achieving market acceptance of its products and
    services, or developing and maintaining loyal customers.

Because the
    nature of the financial services business involves a high volume
    of transactions, the Company faces significant operational risks
        The Company operates
    in many different businesses in diverse markets and relies on
    the ability of its employees and systems to process a high
    number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss
    resulting from the Company s operations, including, but not
    limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of
    the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by
    employees, errors relating to transaction processing and
    technology, breaches of the internal control system and
    compliance requirements and business continuation and disaster
    recovery. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal
    actions that could arise as a result of an operational
    deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable
    regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their
    implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative
    publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control
    system, improper operation of systems or improper employee
    actions, the Company could suffer financial loss, face
    regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation.

The change in
    residual value of leased assets may have an adverse impact on
    the Company s financial results
        The Company engages
    in leasing activities and is subject to the risk that the
    residual value of the property under lease will be less than the
    Company s recorded asset value. Adverse changes in the
    residual value of leased assets can have a negative impact on
    the Company s financial results. The risk of changes in the
    realized value of the leased assets compared to recorded
    residual values depends on many factors outside of the
    Company s control, including supply and demand for the
    assets, collecting insurance claims, condition of the assets at
    the end of the lease term, and other economic factors.

Negative
    publicity could damage the Company s reputation and
    adversely impact its business and financial results
        Reputation risk, or
    the risk to the Company s earnings and capital from
    negative publicity, is inherent in the Company s business.
    Negative publicity can result from the Company s actual or
    alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending
    practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and actions
    taken by government regulators and community organizations in
    response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely
    affect the Company s ability to keep and attract customers
    and can expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action.
    Because most of the Company s businesses operate under the
     U.S. Bank  brand, actual or alleged conduct by
    one business can result in negative publicity about other
    businesses the Company operates. Although the Company takes
    steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with customers and
    other constituencies, the Company, as a large diversified
    financial services company with a high industry profile, is
    inherently exposed to this risk.

The
    Company s reported financial results depend on
    management s selection of accounting methods and certain
    assumptions and estimates
        The Company s
    accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the
    Company records and reports its financial condition and results
    of operations. The Company s management must exercise
    judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting
    policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted
    accounting principles and reflect management s judgment of
    the most appropriate manner to report the Company s
    financial condition and results. In some cases, management must
    select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more
    alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the
    circumstances, yet might result in the Company s reporting
    materially different results than would have been reported under
    a different alternative.

Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting the
    Company s financial condition and results. They require
    management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments
    about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts
    could be reported under different conditions or using different
    assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies
    include: the allowance for credit losses; estimations of fair
    value; the valuation of mortgage servicing rights; the valuation
    of goodwill and other intangible assets; and income taxes.
    Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these
    matters, the Company may be required to do one or more of the
    following: significantly increase the allowance for credit
    losses
     and/or 
    sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the
    reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on its
    goodwill and other intangible asset balances; or significantly
    increase its accrued taxes liability.

For more information, refer to  Critical Accounting
    Policies  in this Annual Report.

Changes in
    accounting standards could materially impact the Company s
    financial statements
        From time to time,
    the

U.S. BANCORP  117  

Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial
    accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation
    of the Company s financial statements. These changes can be
    hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company
    records and reports its financial condition and results of
    operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to
    apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the
    Company s restating prior period financial statements.

Acquisitions
    may not produce revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels
    or within timeframes originally anticipated and may result in
    unforeseen integration difficulties
        The Company
    regularly explores opportunities to acquire financial services
    businesses or assets and may also consider opportunities to
    acquire other banks or financial institutions. The Company
    cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions.

Difficulty in integrating an acquired business or company may
    cause the Company not to realize expected revenue increases,
    cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence,
     and/or  other
    projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could
    result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss
    of key employees, disruption of the Company s business or
    the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely
    affect the Company s ability to maintain relationships with
    customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of
    the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures
    required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business
    combinations may be greater than expected.

The Company must generally receive federal regulatory approval
    before it can acquire a bank or bank holding company. In
    determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition,
    federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the
    effect of the acquisition on the competition, financial
    condition, and future prospects. The regulators also review
    current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence,
    experience, and integrity of management and its record of
    compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs
    of the communities to be served (including the acquiring
    institution s record of compliance under the Community
    Reinvestment Act) and the effectiveness of the acquiring
    institution in combating money laundering activities. In
    addition, the Company cannot be certain when or if, or on what
    terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be
    granted. The Company may be required to sell banks or branches
    as a condition to receiving regulatory approval.

If new laws
    were enacted that restrict the ability of the Company and its
    subsidiaries to share information about customers, the
    Company s financial results could be negatively affected
        The Company s
    business model depends on sharing information among the family
    of companies owned by U.S. Bancorp to better satisfy the
    Company s customer needs. Laws that restrict the ability of
    the companies owned by U.S. Bancorp to share information
    about customers could negatively affect the Company s
    revenue and profit.

The
    Company s business could suffer if the Company fails to
    attract and retain skilled people
        The Company s
    success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and
    retain key people. Competition for the best people in most
    activities the Company engages in can be intense. The Company
    may not be able to hire the best people or to keep them.

The Company
    relies on other companies to provide key components of the
    Company s business infrastructure
        Third party vendors
    provide key components of the Company s business
    infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and
    mutual fund distribution. While the Company has selected these
    third party vendors carefully, it does not control their
    actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including
    as a result of their not providing the Company their services
    for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could
    adversely affect the Company s ability to deliver products
    and services to the Company s customers and otherwise to
    conduct its business. Replacing these third party vendors could
    also entail significant delay and expense.

Significant
    legal actions could subject the Company to substantial uninsured
    liabilities     The
    Company is from time to time subject to claims related to its
    operations. These claims and legal actions, including
    supervisory actions by the Company s regulators, could
    involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. To
    protect itself from the cost of these claims, the Company
    maintains insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles
    that it believes are appropriate for its operations. However,
    the Company s insurance coverage may not cover all claims
    against the Company or continue to be available to the Company
    at a reasonable cost. As a result, the Company may be exposed to
    substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect
    the Company s results of operations and financial condition.

The Company is
    exposed to risk of environmental liability when it takes title
    to properties     In the
    course of the Company s business, the Company may foreclose
    on and take title to real estate. As a result, the Company could
    be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these
    properties. The Company may be held liable to a governmental
    entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury,
    investigation and
     clean-up 
    costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental
    contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up

118  U.S. BANCORP  

hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a
    property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation
    activities could be substantial. In addition, if the Company is
    the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, it may be
    subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages
    and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating
    from the property. If the Company becomes subject to significant
    environmental liabilities, its financial condition and results
    of operations could be adversely affected.

A natural
    disaster could harm the Company s business
        Natural disasters
    could harm the Company s operations through interference
    with communications, including the interruption or loss of the
    Company s websites, which would prevent the Company from
    gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and
    controlling its flow of business, as well as through the
    destruction of facilities and the Company s operational,
    financial and management information systems.

The Company
    faces systems failure risks as well as security risks, including
     hacking  and  identity theft 
        The computer systems
    and network infrastructure the Company and others use could be
    vulnerable to unforeseen problems. These problems may arise in
    both our internally developed systems and the systems of our
    third-party service providers. Our operations are dependent upon
    our ability to protect computer equipment against damage from
    fire, power loss or telecommunication failure. Any damage or
    failure that causes an interruption in our operations could
    adversely affect our business and financial results. In
    addition, our computer systems and network infrastructure
    present security risks, and could be susceptible to hacking or
    identity theft.

The Company
    relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for its liquidity
    needs     The Company is
    a separate and distinct legal entity from its bank subsidiaries
    and non-bank subsidiaries. The Company receives substantially
    all of its cash from dividends paid by its subsidiaries. These
    dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on
    the Company s stock and interest and principal on its debt.
    Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount
    of dividends that our bank subsidiaries and certain of our
    non-bank subsidiaries may pay to the Company. Also, the
    Company s right to participate in a distribution of assets
    upon a subsidiary s liquidation or reorganization is
    subject to prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors.

The Company
    has non-banking businesses that are subject to various risks and
    uncertainties     The
    Company is a diversified financial services company, and the
    Company s business model is based on a mix of businesses
    that provide a broad range of products and services delivered
    through multiple distribution channels. In addition to banking,
    the Company provides payment services, investments, mortgages
    and corporate and personal trust services. Although the Company
    believes its diversity helps lessen the effect of downturns in
    any one segment of its industry, it also means the
    Company s earnings could be subject to various specific
    risks and uncertainties related to these non-banking businesses.

The
    Company s stock price can be volatile
        The Company s
    stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of
    factors, including: actual or anticipated variations in the
    Company s quarterly operating results; recommendations by
    securities analysts; significant acquisitions or business
    combinations; strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital
    commitments by or involving the Company or the Company s
    competitors; operating and stock price performance of other
    companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; new
    technology used or services offered by the Company s
    competitors; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other
    issues in the financial services industry; and changes in
    government regulations.

General market fluctuations, industry factors and general
    economic and political conditions and events, including
    terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest
    rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations, could
    also cause the Company s stock price to decrease regardless
    of the Company s operating results.

Website Access to
    SEC Reports
       U.S. Bancorp s
    internet website can be found at usbank.com. U.S. Bancorp
    makes available free of charge on its website its annual reports
    on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    current reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as well as all
    other reports filed by U.S. Bancorp with the SEC, as soon
    as reasonably practicable after electronically filed with, or
    furnished to, the SEC.

Certifications
       U.S. Bancorp has
    filed as exhibits to its annual report on
     Form 10-K 
    the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
    certifications required by Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act. U.S. Bancorp has also submitted the
    required annual Chief Executive Officer certification to the New
    York Stock Exchange.

Governance
    Documents    The
    Company s Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics
    and Business Conduct and Board of Directors committee charters
    are available free of charge on the Company s web site at
    usbank.com, by clicking on  About U.S. Bancorp, 
    then  Corporate Governance.  Shareholders may request
    a free printed copy of any of these documents from the
    Company s investor relations department by contacting them
    at investorrelations@usbank.com or calling
     (866) 775-9668. 

U.S. BANCORP  119  

Executive
    Officers

Richard
    K. Davis  

Mr. Davis is Chairman,
    President and Chief Executive Officer of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Davis, 50, has served as Chairman of U.S. Bancorp
    since December 2007, Chief Executive Officer since December 2006
    and President since October 2004. He also served as Chief
    Operating Officer from October 2004 until December 2006. From
    the time of the merger of Firstar Corporation and
    U.S. Bancorp in February 2001 until October 2004,
    Mr. Davis served as Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp.
    From the time of the merger, Mr. Davis was responsible for
    Consumer Banking, including Retail Payment Solutions (card
    services), and he assumed additional responsibility for
    Commercial Banking in 2003. Mr. Davis has held management
    positions with our Company since joining Star Banc Corporation,
    one of our predecessors, in 1993 as Executive Vice President.

Jennie
    P. Carlson  

Ms. Carlson is Executive Vice
    President of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Carlson, 47, has served
    as Executive Vice President, Human Resources since January 2002.
    Until that time, she served as Executive Vice President, Deputy
    General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of U.S. Bancorp
    since the merger of Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in
    February 2001. From 1995 until the merger, she was General
    Counsel and Secretary of Firstar Corporation and Star Banc
    Corporation.

Andrew
    Cecere  

Mr. Cecere is Vice Chairman
    and Chief Financial Officer of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Cecere, 47, has served as Chief Financial Officer of
    U.S. Bancorp since February 2007, and Vice Chairman since
    the merger of Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in
    February 2001. From February 2001 until February 2007 he was
    responsible for Wealth Management   Securities
    Services. Previously, he had served as an executive officer of
    the former U.S. Bancorp, including as Chief Financial
    Officer from May 2000 through February 2001.

William
    L. Chenevich  

Mr. Chenevich is Vice Chairman
    of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Chenevich, 64, has served as Vice
    Chairman of U.S. Bancorp since the merger of Firstar
    Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February 2001, when he
    assumed responsibility for Technology and Operations Services.
    Previously, he served as Vice Chairman of Technology and
    Operations Services of Firstar Corporation from 1999 to 2001.

Richard
    C. Hartnack  

Mr. Hartnack is Vice Chairman
    of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hartnack, 62, has served in this
    position since April 2005, when he joined U.S. Bancorp to
    assume responsibility for Consumer Banking. Prior to joining
    U.S. Bancorp, he served as Vice Chairman of Union Bank of
    California from 1991 to 2005 with responsibility for Community
    Banking and Investment Services.

Richard
    J. Hidy  

Mr. Hidy is Executive Vice
    President and Chief Risk Officer of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Hidy, 45, has served in these positions since 2005.
    From 2003 until 2005, he served as Senior Vice President and
    Deputy General Counsel of U.S. Bancorp, having served as
    Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel of
    U.S. Bancorp and Firstar Corporation since 1999.

Joseph
    C. Hoesley  

Mr. Hoesley is Vice Chairman
    of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hoesley, 53, has served as Vice
    Chairman of U.S. Bancorp since June 2006. From June 2002
    until June 2006, he served as Executive Vice President and
    National Group Head of Commercial Real Estate at
    U.S. Bancorp, having previously served as Senior Vice
    President and Group Head of Commercial Real Estate at
    U.S. Bancorp since joining U.S. Bancorp in 1992.

Pamela
    A. Joseph  

Ms. Joseph is Vice Chairman of
    U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Joseph, 48, has served as Vice
    Chairman of U.S. Bancorp since December 2004. Since
    November 2004, she has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
    of NOVA Information Systems, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of
    U.S. Bancorp. Prior to that time, she had been President
    and Chief Operating Officer of NOVA Information Systems, Inc.
    since February 2000.

Lee
    R. Mitau  

Mr. Mitau is Executive Vice
    President and General Counsel of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Mitau, 59, has served in these positions since 1995.
    Mr. Mitau also serves as Corporate Secretary. Prior to 1995
    he was a partner at the law firm of Dorsey   Whitney
    LLP.

Joseph
    M. Otting  

Mr. Otting is Vice Chairman
    of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Otting, 50, has served in this
    position since April 2005, when he assumed responsibility for
    Commercial Banking. Previously, he served as Executive Vice
    President, East Commercial Banking Group of U.S. Bancorp
    from June 2003 to April 2005. He served as Market President of
    U.S. Bank in Oregon from December 2001 until June 2003.

P.W.
    Parker  

Mr. Parker is Executive Vice
    President and Chief Credit Officer of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Parker, 51, has served in this position since October
    2007. From March 2005 until October 2007, he served as Executive
    Vice President of Credit Portfolio Management of
    U.S. Bancorp, having served as Senior Vice President of
    Credit Portfolio Management of U.S. Bancorp since January
    2002.

Richard
    B. Payne, Jr.  

Mr. Payne is Vice Chairman of
    U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Payne, 60, has served in this
    position since July 2006, when he joined U.S. Bancorp to
    assume responsibility for Corporate Banking. Prior to joining
    U.S. Bancorp, he served as Executive Vice President for
    National City Corporation in Cleveland, with responsibility for
    Capital Markets, since 2001.

Diane
    L. Thormodsgard  

Ms. Thormodsgard is Vice
    Chairman of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Thormodsgard, 57, has
    served as Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp since April 2007,
    when she assumed responsibility for Wealth
    Management   Securities Services. From 1999 until
    April 2007, she served as President of Corporate Trust and
    Institutional Trust   Custody services of
    U.S. Bancorp, having previously served as Chief
    Administrative Officer of Corporate Trust at U.S. Bancorp
    from 1995 to 1999.

120  U.S. BANCORP  

Directors

Richard
    K.
    Davis 1,6   

Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer 

U.S. Bancorp

Minneapolis, Minnesota

Douglas M.
    Baker, Jr.  

Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer  

Ecolab Inc.

St. Paul, Minnesota

Victoria
    Buyniski
    Gluckman 4,6   

President and Chief Executive
    Officer 

United Medical Resources, Inc.,

a wholly owned subsidiary of

UnitedHealth Group Incorporated

Cincinnati, Ohio

Arthur
    D.
    Collins, Jr. 1,2,5   

Chairman and Retired Chief
    Executive Officer 

Medtronic, Inc.

Minneapolis, Minnesota

Peter
    H.
    Coors 2,5   

Vice Chairman 

Molson Coors Brewing Company

Golden, Colorado

Joel
    W.
    Johnson 3,6   

Retired Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer 

Hormel Foods Corporation

Austin, Minnesota

Olivia
    F.
    Kirtley 3,5   

Business Consultant 

Louisville, Kentucky

Jerry
    W.
    Levin 1,2,5   

Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer 

JW Levin Partners LLC

New York, New York

David
    B.
    O Maley 5,6   

Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer 

Ohio National Financial Services,
    Inc.

Cincinnati, Ohio

O dell
    M. Owens, M.D.,
    M.P.H. 1,3,4   

Independent Consultant and
    Hamilton County Coroner 

Cincinnati, Ohio

Richard
    G.
    Reiten 3,4   

Chairman and Retired Chief
    Executive Officer 

Northwest Natural Gas Company

Portland, Oregon

Craig
    D.
    Schnuck 4,6   

Former Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer 

Schnuck Markets, Inc.

St. Louis, Missouri

Warren
    R.
    Staley 1,2,3   

Retired Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer 

Cargill, Incorporated

Minneapolis, Minnesota

Patrick
    T.
    Stokes 1,2,6   

Chairman and Retired Chief
    Executive Officer 

Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc.

St. Louis, Missouri

1.    
     
      Executive
    Committee  

2.    
     
      Compensation
    Committee  

3.    
     
      Audit
    Committee  

4.    
     
      Community
    Reinvestment and Public Policy Committee  

5.    
     
      Governance
    Committee  

6.    
     
      Credit and
    Finance Committee  

Securities
    Disclosures:  

Investors should carefully consider the fund s
    investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses before
    investing. The prospectus contains this and other information;
    call 800.677.FUND or visit firstamericanfunds.com for a copy.
    Please read it carefully before investing. 

Mutual fund investing involves risk; principal loss is
    possible. 

Investing in specific sectors such as infrastructure-related
    securities may involve greater risk and volatility than more
    diversified investments. Risks include greater exposure to
    potential adverse economic, regulatory, political, and other
    changes affecting such securities. Foreign investing, especially
    in emerging markets, entails additional risks, including
    currency fluctuations, political and economic instability,
    accounting changes, and foreign taxation. 

FAF Advisors, Inc., a registered investment advisor and
    subsidiary of U.S. Bank National Association, serves as an
    investment advisor to First American Funds. First American Funds
    are distributed by Quasar Distributors, LLC, an affiliate of the
    investment advisor.

Investment products, including shares of mutual funds, are
    not obligations of, or guaranteed by, any bank, including
    U.S. Bank or any U.S. Bancorp affiliate, nor are they
    insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the
    Federal Reserve Board, or any other agency. An investment in
    such products involves investment risk, including possible loss
    of principal. (1/2008) 

U.S. BANCORP  121  

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 5
 c22668exv21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF U.S. BANCORP 
(JURISDICTIONS OF ORGANIZATION SHOWN IN PARENTHESES) 

U.S. Bank National Association (a nationally chartered banking association)

U.S. Bank National Association ND (a nationally chartered banking association)

U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association (a nationally chartered banking association)

U.S. Bank Trust National Association (a nationally chartered banking association)

U.S. Bank Trust National Association SD (a nationally chartered banking association)

Elan Life Insurance Company (Arizona)

Elavon Financial Services Limited (Ireland)

FAF Advisors, Inc. (Delaware)

Firstar Trade Services Corporation (Wisconsin)

Miami Valley Insurance Company (Arizona)

Midwest Indemnity Inc. (Vermont)

Mississippi Valley Life Insurance Company (Arizona)

NOVA Canadian Holdings Company (Delaware)

NOVA European Holdings Company (Delaware)

Quasar Distributors, LLC (Wisconsin)

U.S. Bancorp Insurance and Investments, Inc. (Wyoming)

U.S. Bancorp Insurance Company, Inc. (Vermont)

U.S. Bancorp Insurance Services of Montana, Inc. (Montana)

U.S. Bancorp Insurance Services, LLC (Wisconsin)

U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc. (Delaware)

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 c22668exv23w1.htm
 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP

exv23w1 

Exhibit 23.1

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of U.S. Bancorp of
our report dated February 20, 2008, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of U.S.
Bancorp, included in the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders of U.S. Bancorp.

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:

of our report dated February 20, 2008, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of
U.S. Bancorp incorporated herein by reference, and our report dated February 20, 2008, with respect
to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of U.S. Bancorp, incorporated herein by
reference, for the year ended December 31, 2007.

/s/  Ernst & Young LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota 
February 25, 2008

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 c22668exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1  

CERTIFICATION
    PURSUANT TO  

RULE 13a-14(a) 
    UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

I, Richard K. Davis, certify that:

(1) 
 
         I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of U.S. Bancorp;

(2) 
 
         Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
    statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
    necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

(3) 
 
         Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
    financial information included in this report, fairly present in
    all material respects the financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
    periods presented in this report;

(4) 
 
         The registrant s other certifying officers and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act Rules
     13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

(a) 

designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
    disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
    supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this report is being prepared;

(b) 

designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
    caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

(c) 

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
    controls and procedures and presented in this report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
    report based on such evaluation; and

(d) 

disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
    internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
    the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
    registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
    report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
    materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
    financial reporting; and

(5)  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officers and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) 

all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
    design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
    which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

(b) 

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
    other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   Richard
    K. Davis 

Richard K. Davis

Chief Executive Officer 

Dated: February 25, 2008

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 c22668exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2  

CERTIFICATION
    PURSUANT TO  

RULE 13a-14(a) 
    UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

I, Andrew Cecere, certify that:

(1) 
 
         I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of U.S. Bancorp;

(2) 
 
         Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
    statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
    necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

(3) 
 
         Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
    financial information included in this report, fairly present in
    all material respects the financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
    periods presented in this report;

(4) 
 
         The registrant s other certifying officers and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act Rules
     13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

(a) 

designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
    disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
    supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this report is being prepared;

(b) 

designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
    caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

(c) 

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
    controls and procedures and presented in this report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
    report based on such evaluation; and

(d) 

disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
    internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
    the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
    registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
    report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
    materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
    financial reporting; and

(5)  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officers and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) 

all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
    design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
    which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

(b) 

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
    other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   Andrew
    Cecere 

Andrew Cecere

Chief Financial Officer 

Dated: February 25, 2008

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 9
 c22668exv32.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

exv32 

EXHIBIT 32  

CERTIFICATION
    PURSUANT TO  

18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 

AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 

SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
    the undersigned, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer of U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation (the
     Company ), do hereby certify that:

(1) 

The Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 (the
      Form 10-K ) 
    of the Company fully complies with the requirements of
    section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934; and

(2) 

The information contained in the
     Form 10-K 
    fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
    condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/   Richard
    K. Davis 

Richard
    K. Davis 
     Chief Executive Officer 

/s/   Andrew
    Cecere 

Andrew
    Cecere 
     Chief Financial Officer 

Dated: February 25, 2008

</EX-32>

