<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090302_10-K_edgar_data_36104_0000950152-09-002057_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>5567289</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>615953</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>95404</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3965660</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>123</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>9</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950152-09-002057.hdr.sgml : 20090302
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090302152835
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950152-09-002057
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		13
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090302
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090302

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			US BANCORP \DE\
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000036104
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS [6021]
		IRS NUMBER:				410255900
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06880
		FILM NUMBER:		09647191

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		U.S.BANCORP
		STREET 2:		800 NICOLLET MALL
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55402
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(651)466-3000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		U.S.BANCORP
		STREET 2:		800 NICOLLET MALL
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55402

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	FIRST BANK SYSTEM INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	FIRST BANK STOCK CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19720317

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 WJXgUhsC32fnMLR7LnHHzX0yRC8+Mxo9fJqOJ9M2Co4Welj9VrEtcXKatQ17J7w9
 01blWtbHL9MzaRQ7PPCv1Q==

 0000950152-09-002057.txt : 20090302

10-K
 1
 c48687e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

10-K 

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
      Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission file
     number: 1-6880  

U.S. Bancorp  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Delaware 
       (State or other jurisdiction
    of 
    incorporation or organization)  

41-0255900 
       (I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)   

800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402 

(Address of principal executive
    offices) (Zip Code)  

(651) 446-3000  

(Registrant s telephone
    number, including area code)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common Stock, $.01 par value per share

New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares (each representing 1/1,000th interest in
    a share of Series B Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, par
    value $1.00)

New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares (each representing 1/1,000th interest in
    a share of Series D Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, par
    value $1.00)

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer    

Accelerated
    filer    

Non-accelerated
    filer    

Smaller reporting
    company    

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act).  Yes         No   

As of June 30, 2008, the aggregate market value of the
    registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the
    registrant was $48.6 billion based on the closing sale
    price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
    registrant s classes of common stock, as of the latest
    practicable date.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Document 

Parts Into Which Incorporated 

1.

Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal
    Year Ended December 31, 2008 (2008 Annual Report)

Parts I and II

2.

Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders to be held April 20, 2009 (Proxy Statement)

Part III

PART I  

Item 1.      

Business   

Information in response to this Item 1 can be found in our
    2008 Annual Report on pages 120 to 121 under the headings
     General Business Description, 
     Competition,   Government Policies  and
     Supervision and Regulation  on page 21 under
    the heading  Acquisitions  on pages 57 to 62
    under the heading  Line of Business Financial Review 
    and on page 121 under the heading  Website Access to
    SEC Reports.  That information is incorporated into this
    report by reference.

Item 1A.      

Risk
    Factors   

Information in response to this Item 1A can be found in our
    2008 Annual Report on pages 121 to 126 under the heading
     Risk Factors.  That information is incorporated into
    this report by reference.

Item 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

None.

Item 2.      

Properties   

U.S. Bancorp and its significant subsidiaries occupy
    headquarter offices under a long-term lease in Minneapolis,
    Minnesota. The Company also leases seven freestanding operations
    centers in Cincinnati, Denver, Milwaukee, Minneapolis, Portland
    and St. Paul. The Company owns ten principal operations centers
    in Cincinnati, Coeur d Alene, Fargo, Milwaukee, Owensboro,
    Portland, St. Louis and St. Paul. At December 31,
    2008, the Company s subsidiaries owned and operated a total
    of 1,457 facilities and leased an additional
    1,536 facilities, all of which are well maintained. The
    Company believes its current facilities are adequate to meet its
    needs. Additional information with respect to premises and
    equipment is presented in Notes 9 and 22 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2008 Annual
    Report. That information is incorporated into this report by
    reference.

Item 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings   

None.

Item 4.      

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

None.

Capital
    Covenants  

The Company has entered into several transactions involving the
    issuance of capital securities ( Capital Securities )
    by Delaware statutory trusts formed by the Company (the
     Trusts ), the issuance by the Company of preferred
    stock ( Preferred Stock ) or the issuance by an
    indirect subsidiary of U.S. Bank National Association of
    preferred stock exchangeable for the Company s Preferred
    Stock under certain circumstances ( Exchangeable Preferred
    Stock ). Simultaneously with the closing of each of those
    transactions, the Company entered into a replacement capital
    covenant (each, a  Replacement Capital Covenant  and
    collectively, the  Replacement Capital Covenants ) for
    the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series
    of long-term indebtedness of the Company or U.S. Bank
    National Association (the  Covered Debt ). Each of the
    Replacement Capital Covenants provides that neither the Company
    nor any of its subsidiaries (including any of the Trusts) will
    repay, redeem or purchase any of the Preferred Stock,
    Exchangeable Preferred Stock or the Capital Securities and the
    securities held by the Trust (the  Other Securities ),
    as applicable, on or before the date specified in the applicable
    Replacement Capital Covenant, with certain limited exceptions,
    except to the extent that, during the 180 days prior to the
    date of that repayment, redemption or purchase, the Company has
    received proceeds from the sale of qualifying securities that
    (i) have equity-like characteristics that are the same as,
    or more equity-like than, the applicable characteristics of the
    Preferred Stock, the Exchangeable Preferred Stock, the Capital
    Securities or Other Securities, as applicable,

1

at the time of repayment, redemption or purchase, and
    (ii) the Company has obtained the prior approval of the
    Federal Reserve Board, if such approval is then required by the
    Federal Reserve Board or, in the case of the Exchangeable
    Preferred Stock, the approval of the Office of the Comptroller
    of the Currency.

The Company will provide a copy of any Replacement Capital
    Covenant to a holder of the relevant Covered Debt. For copies of
    any of these documents, holders should write to Investor
    Relations, U.S. Bancorp, 800 Nicollet Mall,
    Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402, or call
     (866) 775-9668. 

The following table identifies the (i) closing date for
    each transaction, (ii) issuer, (iii) series of Capital
    Securities, Preferred Stock or Exchangeable Preferred Stock
    issued in the relevant transaction, (iv) Other Securities,
    if any, and (v) applicable Covered Debt.

(a)  

USB Realty Corp. is an indirect subsidiary of U.S. Bank
    National Association.  

(b)  

Under certain circumstances, upon the direction of the Office
    of the Comptroller of the Currency, each share of USB Realty
    Corp. s Series A Preferred Stock will be automatically
    exchanged for one share of the U.S. Bancorp s
    Series C Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock.  

2

PART II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

The following table provides a detailed analysis of all shares
    repurchased by the Company during the fourth quarter of 2008:

(a)  

On August 3, 2006, the Company announced that the Board
    of Directors approved an authorization to repurchase
    150 million shares of common stock through
    December 31, 2008. All shares purchased during October and
    November of 2008 were purchased under the publicly announced
    August 3, 2006 authorization.  

(b)  

On December 9, 2008, the Company announced that the
    Board of Directors approved an authorization to repurchase
    20 million shares of common stock through December 31,
    2010. The December 2008 authorization replaced the August 2006
    authorization. All shares purchased during December of 2008 were
    purchased under the publicly announced December 9, 2008
    authorization.  

Additional
    Information  

Additional information in response to this Item 5 can be
    found in our 2008 Annual Report on pages 54 to 55 under the
    heading  Capital Management  and on page 117
    under the heading  U.S. Bancorp Supplemental Financial
    Data (Unaudited).  That information is incorporated into
    this report by reference.

Item 6.      

Selected
    Financial Data   

Information in response to this Item 6 can be found in our
    2008 Annual Report on page 20 under the heading  Table
    1   Selected Financial Data.  That information is
    incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 7.      

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

Information in response to this Item 7 can be found in our
    2008 Annual Report on pages 19 to 65 under the heading
     Management s Discussion and Analysis.  That
    information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 7A.      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Information in response to this Item 7A can be found in our
    2008 Annual Report on pages 34 to 55 under the heading
     Corporate Risk Profile.  That information is
    incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 8.      

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

Information in response to this Item 8 can be found in our
    2008 Annual Report on pages 66 to 119 under the headings
     U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheet, 
     U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Income, 
     U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of
    Shareholders  Equity,   U.S. Bancorp
    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows,   Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements,   Report of
    Management,   Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm on the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, 
     U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheet  
    Five Year Summary (Unaudited),   U.S. Bancorp
    Consolidated Statement of Income   Five Year

3

Summary,   U.S. Bancorp Quarterly Consolidated
    Financial Data (Unaudited),   U.S. Bancorp
    Supplemental Financial Data (Unaudited)  and
     U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Daily Average Balance Sheet
    and Related Yields and Rates (Unaudited).  That information
    is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 9.      

Changes
    In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

None.

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures   

Information in response to this Item 9A can be found in our
    2008 Annual Report on page 65 under the heading
     Controls and Procedures  and on pages 111 and
    113 under the headings  Report of Management  and
     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.  That
    information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information   

None.

PART III  

Item 10.      

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

Richard
    K. Davis   

Mr. Davis is Chairman, President and Chief Executive
    Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Davis, 51, has
    served as Chairman of U.S. Bancorp since December 2007,
    Chief Executive Officer since December 2006 and President since
    October 2004. He also served as Chief Operating Officer from
    October 2004 until December 2006. From the time of the merger of
    Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February 2001 until
    October 2004, Mr. Davis served as Vice Chairman of
    U.S. Bancorp. From the time of the merger, Mr. Davis
    was responsible for Consumer Banking, including Retail Payment
    Solutions (card services), and he assumed additional
    responsibility for Commercial Banking in 2003. Mr. Davis
    has held management positions with our Company since joining
    Star Banc Corporation, one of our predecessors, in 1993 as
    Executive Vice President.

Jennie
    P. Carlson   

Ms. Carlson is Executive Vice President of
    U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Carlson, 48, has served as Executive
    Vice President, Human Resources since January 2002. Until that
    time, she served as Executive Vice President, Deputy General
    Counsel and Corporate Secretary of U.S. Bancorp since the
    merger of Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February
    2001. From 1995 until the merger, she was General Counsel and
    Secretary of Firstar Corporation and Star Banc Corporation.

Andrew
    Cecere   

Mr. Cecere is Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of
    U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Cecere, 48, has served as Chief
    Financial Officer of U.S. Bancorp since February 2007, and
    Vice Chairman since the merger of Firstar Corporation and
    U.S. Bancorp in February 2001. From February 2001 until
    February 2007 he was responsible for Wealth
    Management   Securities Services. Previously, he had
    served as an executive officer of the former U.S. Bancorp,
    including as Chief Financial Officer from May 2000 through
    February 2001.

William
    L. Chenevich   

Mr. Chenevich is Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Chenevich, 65, has served as Vice Chairman of
    U.S. Bancorp since the merger of Firstar Corporation and
    U.S. Bancorp in February 2001, when he assumed

4

responsibility for Technology and Operations Services.
    Previously, he served as Vice Chairman of Technology and
    Operations Services of Firstar Corporation from 1999 to 2001.

Richard
    C. Hartnack   

Mr. Hartnack is Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Hartnack, 63, has served in this position since
    April 2005, when he joined U.S. Bancorp to assume
    responsibility for Consumer Banking. Prior to joining
    U.S. Bancorp, he served as Vice Chairman of Union Bank of
    California from 1991 to 2005 with responsibility for Community
    Banking and Investment Services.

Richard
    J. Hidy   

Mr. Hidy is Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer
    of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hidy, 46, has served in
    these positions since 2005. From 2003 until 2005, he served as
    Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel of
    U.S. Bancorp, having served as Senior Vice President and
    Associate General Counsel of U.S. Bancorp and Firstar
    Corporation since 1999.

Joseph
    C. Hoesley   

Mr. Hoesley is Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Hoesley, 54, has served as Vice Chairman of
    U.S. Bancorp since June 2006. From June 2002 until June
    2006, he served as Executive Vice President and National Group
    Head of Commercial Real Estate at U.S. Bancorp, having
    previously served as Senior Vice President and Group Head of
    Commercial Real Estate at U.S. Bancorp since joining
    U.S. Bancorp in 1992.

Pamela
    A. Joseph   

Ms. Joseph is Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp.
    Ms. Joseph, 50, has served as Vice Chairman of
    U.S. Bancorp since December 2004. Since November 2004, she
    has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Elavon Inc., a
    wholly owned subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp. Prior to that
    time, she had been President and Chief Operating Officer of
    Elavon Inc. since February 2000.

Howell
    D. McCullough III   

Mr. McCullough is Executive Vice President and Chief
    Strategy Officer of U.S. Bancorp and Head of
    U.S. Bancorp s Enterprise Revenue Office.
    Mr. McCullough, 52, has served in these positions
    since September 2007. From July 2005 until September 2007, he
    served as Director of Strategy and Acquisitions of the Payment
    Services business of U.S. Bancorp. He also served as Chief
    Financial Officer of the Payment Services business from October
    2006 until September 2007. From March 2001 until July 2005, he
    served as Senior Vice President and Director of Investor
    Relations at U.S. Bancorp.

Lee R.
    Mitau   

Mr. Mitau is Executive Vice President and General Counsel
    of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Mitau, 60, has served in
    these positions since 1995. Mr. Mitau also serves as
    Corporate Secretary. Prior to 1995 he was a partner at the law
    firm of Dorsey   Whitney LLP.

Joseph
    M. Otting   

Mr. Otting is Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Otting, 51, has served in this position since
    April 2005, when he assumed responsibility for Commercial
    Banking. Previously, he served as Executive Vice President, East
    Commercial Banking Group of U.S. Bancorp from June 2003 to
    April 2005. He served as Market President of U.S. Bank in
    Oregon from December 2001 until June 2003.

P.W.
    Parker   

Mr. Parker is Executive Vice President and Chief Credit
    Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Parker, 52, has
    served in this position since October 2007. From March 2005
    until October 2007, he served as Executive Vice President of

5

Credit Portfolio Management of U.S. Bancorp, having served
    as Senior Vice President of Credit Portfolio Management of
    U.S. Bancorp since January 2002.

Richard
    B. Payne, Jr.   

Mr. Payne is Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Payne, 61, has served in this position since July
    2006, when he joined U.S. Bancorp to assume responsibility
    for Corporate Banking. Prior to joining U.S. Bancorp, he
    served as Executive Vice President for National City Corporation
    in Cleveland, with responsibility for Capital Markets, since
    2001.

Diane
    L. Thormodsgard   

Ms. Thormodsgard is Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp.
    Ms. Thormodsgard, 58, has served as Vice Chairman of
    U.S. Bancorp since April 2007, when she assumed
    responsibility for Wealth Management   Securities
    Services. From 1999 until April 2007, she served as President of
    Corporate Trust and Institutional Trust   Custody
    services of U.S. Bancorp, having previously served as Chief
    Administrative Officer of Corporate Trust at U.S. Bancorp
    from 1995 to 1999.

Code of
    Ethics and Business Conduct  

We have adopted a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that
    applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial
    officer and principal accounting officer. Our Code of Ethics and
    Business Conduct can be found at  www.usbank.com  by
    clicking on  About U.S. Bancorp  and then
     Corporate Governance.  We intend to satisfy the
    disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of
     Form 8-K 
    regarding amendments to, or waivers from, certain provisions of
    the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that apply to our
    principal executive officer, principal financial officer and
    principal accounting officer by posting such information on our
    website, at the address and location specified above.

Additional
    Information  

Additional information in response to this Item 10 can be
    found in our Proxy Statement under the headings
     Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance  and  Director Nominees for Terms Ending in
    2010,   Directors with Terms Ending in 2010  and
     Board Meetings and Committees.  That information is
    incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

Information in response to this Item 11 can be found in our
    Proxy Statement under the headings  Executive
    Compensation  and  Director Compensation.  That
    information is incorporated into this report by reference.

6

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information  

The following table summarizes information regarding the
    Company s equity compensation plans in effect as of
    December 31, 2008:

(a)  

No shares are available for granting future awards under the
    U.S. Bancorp 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, the
    U.S. Bancorp 1998 Executive Stock Incentive Plan or the
    U.S. Bancorp 1991 Executive Stock Incentive plan. The
    45,441,825 shares available under the U.S. Bancorp
    2007 Stock Incentive Plan are available for future awards in the
    form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted
    stock, restricted stock units, performance awards or other
    stock-based awards, except that only 23,747,963 of these shares
    are available for future grants of awards other than stock
    options or stock appreciation rights.  

(b)  

Includes shares underlying stock options and restricted stock
    units (convertible into shares of the Company s common
    stock on a one-for-one basis) under the U.S. Bancorp 2007
    Stock Incentive Plan, the U.S. Bancorp 2001 Stock Incentive
    Plan, the U.S. Bancorp 1998 Executive Stock Incentive Plan
    and the U.S. Bancorp 1991 Executive Stock Incentive Plan.
    Excludes 5,166,254 shares, with a weighted average exercise
    price of $26.62, underlying outstanding stock options and
    warrants assumed by U.S. Bancorp in connection with
    acquisitions by U.S. Bancorp. Of the excluded shares,
    4,812,188 underlie stock options granted under equity
    compensation plans of the former U.S. Bancorp that were
    approved by the shareholders of the former U.S. Bancorp.  

(c)  

Includes 2,813,292 shares of common stock issuable
    pursuant to various current and former deferred compensation
    plans of U.S. Bancorp and its predecessor entities. All of
    the remaining identified shares underlie stock options granted
    to a broad-based employee population pursuant to the
    U.S. Bancorp 2001 Employee Stock Incentive Plan ( 2001
    Plan ), the Firstar Corporation 1999 Employee Stock
    Incentive Plan ( 1999 Plan ) and the Firstar
    Corporation 1998 Employee Stock Incentive Plan ( 1998
    Plan ).  

(d)  

The weighted-average exercise price does not include any
    assumed price at issuance of shares that may be issuable
    pursuant to the deferred compensation plans.  

As of December 31, 2008, options to purchase an aggregate
    of 1,563,985 shares were outstanding under the 2001 Plan.
    Under the 2001 Plan, nonqualified stock options were granted to
    full-time or part-time employees actively employed by
    U.S. Bancorp on the grant date, other than individuals
    eligible to participate in any of the Company s executive
    stock incentive plans. All options outstanding under the plan
    were granted on February 27, 2001.

As of December 31, 2008, options to purchase an aggregate
    of 379,315 shares of the Company s common stock were
    outstanding under the 1999 Plan. Under this plan, stock options
    were granted to each full-time or part-time employee actively
    employed by Firstar Corporation on the grant date, other than
    managers who participated in an executive stock incentive plan.

As of December 31, 2008, options to purchase an aggregate
    of 27,792 shares of the Company s common stock were
    outstanding under the 1998 Plan. Under this plan, stock options
    were granted to each full-time or part-time

7

employee actively employed by Firstar Corporation on the grant
    date, other than managers who participated in an executive stock
    incentive plan.

No further options will be granted under the 2001 Plan, the 1999
    Plan or the 1998 Plan. Under all of these plans, the exercise
    price of the options equals the fair market value of the
    underlying common stock on the grant date. All options granted
    under the plans have a term of 10 years from the grant date
    and become exercisable over a period of time set forth in the
    relevant plan or as determined by the committee administering
    the relevant plan. Options granted under the plans are
    nontransferable and, during the optionee s lifetime, are
    exercisable only by the optionee.

If an optionee is terminated as a result of his or her gross
    misconduct or offense, all options terminate immediately,
    whether or not vested. Under the 2001 Plan, the 1999 Plan and
    the 1998 Plan, in the event an optionee is terminated
    immediately following a change in control (as defined in the
    plans) of U.S. Bancorp, and the termination is due to
    business needs resulting from the change in control and not as a
    result of the optionee s performance or conduct, all of the
    optionee s outstanding options will become immediately
    vested and exercisable as of the date of termination.

If the outstanding shares of the Company s common stock are
    changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of
    stock or other securities as a result of a reorganization,
    recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split, combination of
    shares, reclassification, merger, consolidation or similar
    event, the number of shares underlying outstanding options also
    may be adjusted. The plans may be terminated, amended or
    modified by the Board of Directors at any time.

The deferred compensation plans allow non-employee directors and
    members of the Company s senior management to defer all or
    part of their compensation until the earlier of retirement or
    termination of employment. The deferred compensation is deemed
    to be invested in one of several investment alternatives at the
    option of the participant, including shares of U.S. Bancorp
    common stock. Deferred compensation deemed to be invested in
    U.S. Bancorp stock may be received at the time of
    distribution at the election of the participant, in the form of
    shares of U.S. Bancorp common stock. The
    2,813,292 shares included in the table assumes that
    participants in the plans whose deferred compensation had been
    deemed to be invested in U.S. Bancorp common stock had
    elected to receive all of that deferred compensation in shares
    of U.S. Bancorp common stock on December 31, 2008. The
    U.S. Bancorp 2005 Executive Employees Deferred Compensation
    Plan and the U.S. Bancorp 2005 Outside Directors Deferred
    Compensation Plan are the Company s only deferred
    compensation plans under which compensation may currently be
    deferred.

Additional
    Information  

Additional Information in response to this Item 12 can be
    found in our Proxy Statement under the heading  Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management. 
    That information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence   

Information in response to this Item 13 can be found in our
    Proxy Statement under the headings  Director
    Independence  and  Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions.  That information is incorporated into this
    report by reference.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accounting Fees and Services   

Information in response to this Item 14 can be found in our
    Proxy Statement under the headings  Fees of Independent
    Auditor  and  Administration of Engagement of
    Independent Auditor.  That information is incorporated into
    this report by reference.

8

PART IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits,
    Financial Statement Schedules   

List of documents filed as part of this report

1.    

Financial
    Statements  

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheet as of
    December 31, 2008 and 2007

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Income for each of
    the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Shareholders 
    Equity for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2008

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for each
    of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Management

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the
    Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheet   Five
    Year Summary (Unaudited)

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Income  
    Five Year Summary

U.S. Bancorp Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data
    (Unaudited)

U.S. Bancorp Supplemental Financial Data (Unaudited)

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Daily Average Balance Sheet and
    Related Yields and Rates (Unaudited)

2.    

Financial
    Statement Schedules  

All financial statement schedules for the Company have been
    included in the consolidated financial statements or the related
    footnotes, or are either inapplicable or not required.

Shareholders may obtain a copy of any of the exhibits to this
    report upon payment of a fee covering our reasonable expenses in
    furnishing the exhibits. You can request exhibits by writing to
    Investor Relations, U.S. Bancorp, 800 Nicollet Mall,
    Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402.

9

10

11

(1)  

Exhibit has been previously filed with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission and is incorporated herein as an exhibit by
    reference to the prior filing.  

(2)  

Management contracts or compensatory plans or
    arrangements.  

12

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on March 2, 2009, on its behalf by
    the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

U.S. BANCORP 

By 

/s/   Richard
    K. Davis 

Richard K. Davis

Chairman, President and

Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below on March 2, 2009,
    by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
    capacities indicated.

Signature and Title 

/s/   Richard
    K. Davis 

Richard
    K. Davis, 
    Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer 
    (principal executive officer)

/s/   Andrew
    Cecere 

Andrew
    Cecere, 
    Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer 
    (principal financial officer)

/s/   Terrance
    R. Dolan 

Terrance
    R. Dolan, Executive Vice President and Controller (principal
    accounting officer)

/s/   Douglas
    M. Baker, Jr.*  

Douglas
    M. Baker, Jr., Director

/s/   Victoria
    Buyniski Gluckman* 

Victoria
    Buyniski Gluckman, Director

/s/   Arthur
    D. Collins, Jr.* 

Arthur
    D. Collins, Jr., Director

/s/   Joel
    W. Johnson* 

Joel
    W. Johnson, Director

/s/   Olivia
    F. Kirtley* 

Olivia
    F. Kirtley, Director

/s/   Jerry
    W. Levin* 

Jerry
    W. Levin, Director

/s/   David
    B. O Maley* 

David
    B. O Maley, Director

13

Signature and Title 

/s/   O dell
    M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H. * 

O dell
    M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H., Director

/s/   Richard
    G. Reiten* 

Richard
    G. Reiten, Director

/s/   Craig
    D. Schnuck* 

Craig
    D. Schnuck, Director

/s/   Patrick
    T. Stokes* 

Patrick
    T. Stokes, Director

*  

Lee R. Mitau, by signing his name hereto, does hereby sign
    this document on behalf of each of the above named directors of
    the registrant pursuant to powers of attorney duly executed by
    such persons.  

Dated: March 2, 2009

By:

/s/   Lee
    R. Mitau 

Lee
    R. Mitau 
     Attorney-In-Fact 
     Executive Vice President, 
    General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

14

<EX-3.1>
 2
 c48687exv3w1.htm
 EX-3.1

EX-3.1 

Exhibit 3.1 

RESTATED 
CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION 
OF 
U.S. BANCORP 

FIRST : The name of this corporation is U.S. Bancorp.

SECOND : The registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware is to be located at
1209 Orange Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of the registered
agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.

THIRD : The purpose of the corporation is to engage in any part of the world in any capacity
in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation
Law of Delaware, and the corporation shall be authorized to exercise and enjoy all powers, rights
and privileges which corporations organized under the General Corporation Law of Delaware may have
under the laws of the State of Delaware as in force from time to time, including without limitation
all powers, rights and privileges necessary or convenient to carry out all those acts and
activities in which it may lawfully engage.

FOURTH : The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the corporation shall have
the authority to issue is 4,050,000,000, consisting of 50,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the
par value of $1.00 each and 4,000,000,000 shares of Common Stock of the par value of $.01 each.

The designations and the powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations
or restrictions thereof, of each class of stock are as follows:

The Board of Directors is expressly authorized at any time, and from time to time, to provide
for the issuance of shares of preferred stock in one or more series, with such voting powers, full
or limited, or without voting powers and with such designations, preferences and relative,
participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions
thereof, as shall be stated and expressed in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue
thereof adopted by the board of directors, subject to the limitations prescribed by law and in
accordance with the provisions hereof, including (but without limiting the generality thereof) the
following:

(a) The designation of the series and the number of shares to constitute the series.

(b) The dividend rate of the series, the conditions and dates upon which such dividends shall
be payable, the relation which such dividends shall bear to the dividends payable on any other
class or classes of stock, and whether such dividends shall be cumulative or noncumulative.

(c) Whether the shares of the series shall be subject to redemption by the corporation and,
if made subject to such redemption, the times, prices and other terms and conditions of such
redemption.

(d) The terms and amount of any sinking fund provided for the purchase or redemption of the
shares of the series.

(e) Whether or not the shares of the series shall be convertible into or exchangeable for
shares of any other class or classes or of any other series of any class or classes of stock of the
corporation, and, if provision be made for conversion or exchange, the times, prices, rates,
adjustments and other terms and conditions of such conversion or exchange.

(f) The extent, if any, to which the holders of the shares of the series shall be entitled to
vote with respect to the election of directors or otherwise.

(g) The restrictions, if any on the issue or reissue of any additional preferred stock.

(h) The rights of the holders of the shares of the series upon the dissolution, liquidation,
or winding up of the corporation.

Subject to the prior or equal rights, if any, of the preferred stock of any and all series
stated and expressed by the board of directors in the resolution or resolutions providing for the
issuance of such preferred stock, the holders of common stock shall be entitled (i) to receive
dividends when and as declared by the board of directors out of any funds legally available
therefore, (ii) in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the corporation, to
receive the remaining assets of the corporation, ratably according to the number of shares of
common stock held, and (iii) to one vote for each share of common stock held. No holder of common
stock shall have any preemptive right to purchase or subscribe for any part of any issue of stock
or of securities of the corporation convertible into stock of any class whatsoever, whether now or
hereafter authorized.

Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH, the following series of Preferred
Stock have been designated, each such series consisting of such number of shares, with such voting
powers and with such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other
special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof as are stated and expressed
in the exhibit with respect to such series attached hereto as specified below and incorporated
herein by reference:

Exhibit A

Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock 

Exhibit B

Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock 

Exhibit C

Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock 

Exhibit D

Series C Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock 

FIFTH : In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute, the Board of
Directors is expressly authorized:

2 

(a) To fix, determine and vary from time to time the amount to be maintained as surplus and
the amount or amounts to be set apart as working capital.

(b) To adopt, amend, alter or repeal by-laws of the corporation, without any action on the
part of the shareholders. The by-laws adopted by the directors may be amended, altered, changed,
added to or repealed by the shareholders.

(c) To authorize and cause to be executed mortgages and liens, without limit as to amount,
upon the real and personal property of this corporation.

(d) To sell, assign, convey or otherwise dispose of a part of the property, assets and
effects of this corporation, less than the whole, or less than substantially the whole thereof, on
such terms and conditions as they shall deem advisable, without the assent of the shareholders; and
also to sell, assign, transfer, convey and otherwise dispose of the whole or substantially the
whole of the property, assets, effects, franchises and good will of this corporation on such terms
and conditions as they shall deem advisable, but only pursuant to the affirmative vote of the
holders of a majority in amount of the stock then having voting power and at the time issued and
outstanding, but in any event not less than the amount required by law.

(e) All of the powers of this corporation, insofar as the same lawfully may be vested by this
certificate in the board of directors, are hereby conferred upon the board of directors of this
corporation.

SIXTH : The affairs of the Corporation shall be conducted by a Board of Directors. Except as
otherwise provided by this Article Sixth, the number of directors, not less than twelve (12) nor
more than thirty (30), shall be fixed from time to time by the Bylaws. Commencing with the 2008
annual meeting of the stockholders, directors shall be elected annually for terms of one year and
shall hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting. Directors elected at the 2005 annual
meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders; directors
elected at the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2009 annual meeting
of stockholders and directors elected at the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office
until the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders. In all cases, directors shall hold office until
their respective successors are elected by the stockholders and have qualified.

In the event that the holders of any class or series of stock of the Corporation having a
preference as to dividends or upon liquidation of the Corporation shall be entitled, by a separate
class vote, to elect directors as may be specified pursuant to Article Fourth, then the provisions
of such class or series of stock with respect to their rights shall apply. The number of directors
that may be elected by the holders of any
such class or series of stock shall be in addition to the number fixed pursuant to the preceding
paragraph of this Article Sixth. Except as otherwise expressly provided pursuant to Article Fourth,
the number of directors that may be so elected by the holders of any such class or series of stock
shall be elected for terms expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and vacancies among
directors so elected by the separate class

3 

vote of any such class or series of stock shall be
filled by the remaining directors elected by such class or series, or, if there are no such
remaining directors, by the holders of such class or series in the same manner in which such class
or series initially elected a director.

If at any meeting for the election of directors, more than one class of stock, voting
separately as classes, shall be entitled to elect one or more directors and there shall be a quorum
of only one such class of stock, that class of stock shall be entitled to elect its quota of
directors notwithstanding the absence of a quorum of the other class or classes of stock.

Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the number of
directors, subject to the provision of Article Fourth, shall be filled by a majority of the
directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, and such
directors so chosen shall hold office until the next election of directors, and until their
successors shall be elected and shall have qualified.

SEVENTH : No action required to be taken or which may be taken at any annual meeting or
special meeting of stockholders may be taken without a meeting, and the power of stockholders to
consent in writing, without a meeting, to the taking of any action is specifically denied.

EIGHTH : No director of the corporation shall be personally liable to the corporation or its
stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty by such director as a director;
provided, however, that this Article Eighth shall not eliminate or limit the liability of a
director to the extent provided by applicable law (i) for any breach of the director s duty of
loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or
which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under section 174 of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or (iv) for any transaction from which the
director derived an improper personal benefit. No amendment to or repeal of this Article Eighth
shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged liability of any director of the
corporation for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such director occurring prior to such
amendment or repeal.

4 

Exhibit A  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 

of 

SERIES A JUNIOR PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK 

Section 1.  Designation and Amount . The shares of such series shall be designated as
 Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock  (the  Series A Preferred Stock ) and the number of
shares constituting the Series A Preferred Stock shall be 4,000,000. Such number of shares may be
increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors;  provided , that no decrease
shall reduce the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of
shares then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of
outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued
by the Corporation convertible into Series A Preferred Stock.

Section 2.  Dividends and Distributions .

(A) Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock (or
any similar stock) ranking prior and superior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to
dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of
Common Stock, par value $.01 per share (the  Common Stock ), of the Corporation, and of any other
junior stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out
of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the first day of
March, June, September and December in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a
 Quarterly Dividend Payment Date ), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after
the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in an amount per
share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $1 or (b) subject to the provision
for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 1000 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash
dividends, and 1000 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash
dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a
subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared
on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or, with
respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or
fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time
declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a
subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by
reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a
greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which
holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under
clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be
adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of
shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such

5 

event and the denominator of which is the
number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.

(B) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Preferred Stock
as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section immediately after it declares a dividend or
distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock);
provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common
Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $1 per share on the Series A Preferred Stock shall
nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.

(C) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A
Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such
shares, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly
Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date
of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a
date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock
entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either
of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend
Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares
of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time
accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all
such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the
determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a
dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior
to the date fixed for the payment thereof.

Section 3.  Voting Rights . The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall
have the following voting rights:

(A) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series A
Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 1000 votes on all matters submitted to a vote
of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or
pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or
combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or
otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number
of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of
shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted
by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common
Stock
outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares
of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.

6 

(B) Except as otherwise provided herein, in any other Certificate of Designations creating a
series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other capital stock of the
Corporation having general voting rights shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted
to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.

(C) Except as set forth herein, or as otherwise provided by law, holders of Series A Preferred
Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the
extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any
corporate action.

Section 4.  Certain Restrictions .

(A) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A
Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and
unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock
outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:

(i) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock
ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to
the Series A Preferred Stock;

(ii) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock
ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up)
with the Series A Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred
Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion
to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;

(iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock
ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to
the Series A Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem,
purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of any
stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution,
liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; or

(iv) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A
Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred
Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as
determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the
Board of Directors, after consideration of
the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the
respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and
equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.

7 

(B) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or
otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation
could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such
time and in such manner.

Section 5.  Reacquired Shares . Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased or
otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled
promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become
authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of
Preferred Stock subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the
Certificate of Incorporation, or in any other Certificate of Designations creating a series of
Preferred Stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.

Section 6.  Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up . Upon any liquidation, dissolution
or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made (1) to the holders of shares of
stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the
Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock
shall have received $1,000 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and
distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment, provided that the
holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per
share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 1,000 times the
aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of shares of Common Stock, or (2) to the
holders of shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably on
the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which
the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In
the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable
in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the
outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend
in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each
such case the aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled
immediately prior to such event under the proviso in clause (1) of the preceding sentence shall be
adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of
Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of
shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.

Section 7.  Consolidation, Merger, etc.  In case the Corporation shall enter into any
consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are
exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or
any other property, then in any such case each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the
same time be similarly exchanged or changed into an amount per share, subject to the provision for
adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 1,000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities,
cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each
share of Common Stock is changed or

8 

exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time
declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a
subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by
reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a
greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in
the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Preferred Stock
shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of
shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the
number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.

Section 8.  No Redemption . The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be
redeemable.

Section 9.  Rank . The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank, with respect to the payment
of dividends and the distribution of assets, junior to all series of any other class of the
Corporation s Preferred Stock.

Section 10.  Amendment . The Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not
be amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special
rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote
of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting
together as a single class.

9 

Exhibit B  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 

OF 

SERIES A NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK 

Section 1.  Designation . The designation of the series of Preferred Stock created by this
resolution shall be Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (hereinafter referred to as
the   Series A Preferred Stock  ). Each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall be identical in all
respects to every other share of Series A Preferred Stock. Series A Preferred Stock will rank
equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment
of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.

Section 2.  Number of Shares . The number of authorized shares of Series A Preferred Stock
shall be 20,010. Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total
number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of
Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so
authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series A
Preferred Stock.

Section 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series A Preferred Stock:

Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking
institutions in Minneapolis, Minnesota, New York, New York or Wilmington, Delaware are not
authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.

Depositary Company   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.

Dividend Payment Date   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.

Dividend Period   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.

DTC   means The Depositary Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.

Junior Stock   means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of
the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series A Preferred

10 

Stock has preference or priority
in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the Corporation.

London Banking Day   means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business
(including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England.

Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par
with Series A Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

Preferred Director   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 hereof.

Series A Preferred Stock   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.

Telerate Page 3750   means the display page so designated on the Moneyline/Telerate Service
(or such other page as may replace that page on that service, or such other service as may be
nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to
the London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits).

Three-Month LIBOR   means, with respect to any Dividend Period, the rate (expressed as a
percentage  per annum ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first
day of that Dividend Period that appears on Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on
the second London Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. If such rate does
not appear on Telerate Page 3750, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at
which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that
Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in
the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the
Corporation, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time on the second London Banking Day preceding
the first day of that Dividend Period. U.S. Bank National Association, or such other bank as may
be acting as calculation agent for the Corporation, will request the principal London office of
each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are
provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean
(rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two
quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the
arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by
three major banks in New York City selected by the calculation agent, at approximately 11:00 a.m.,
New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading
European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in
a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if the banks selected by the calculation
agent to provide
quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will
be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of
the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have

11 

been determined in accordance with
the first sentence of this paragraph had Series A Preferred Stock been outstanding. The
calculation agent s establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends
for each Dividend Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made
available to any holder of Series A Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in
the absence of manifest error.

Section 4.  Dividends .

(a)  Rate . Holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when
declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board
of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative
cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share of Series A Preferred Stock, and
no more, payable on the following dates: (1) if the Series A Preferred Stock is issued prior to
April 15, 2011, semi-annually in arrears on each April 15 and October 15 through April 15, 2011,
and (2) from and including the later of April 15, 2011 and the date of issuance, quarterly in
arrears on each July 15, October 15, January 15 and April 15;  provided ,  however , if any such day is
not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the
next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any interest or other payment in respect of
such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a   Dividend Payment Date  ). The period
from and including the date of issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment
Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a   Dividend Period .  Dividends on each
share of Series A Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share
(i) to but not including the Dividend Payment Date in April 2011 at a rate  per annum  equal to
6.189%, and (ii) thereafter for each related Dividend Period at a rate  per annum  equal to the
greater of (x) Three-Month LIBOR plus 1.02% or (y) 3.50%. The record date for payment of dividends
on the Series A Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately
preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls. The amount of dividends payable
for any period prior to the later of the Dividend Payment Day in April 2011 and the date of
original issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year
consisting of twelve 30-day months and dividends for periods thereafter shall be computed on the
basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed.

(b)  Non-Cumulative Dividends . Dividends on shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be
non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock
on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend
Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be
payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series A Preferred
Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend
Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not
dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series A Preferred
Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the
Corporation.

12 

(c)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series A Preferred Stock remains
outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution
shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend
payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or
otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a
result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or
conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than
through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior
Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of
any such securities by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased,
redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to  pro
rata  offers to purchase all, or a  pro rata  portion, of the Series A Preferred Stock and such Parity
Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on
all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been
paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. The foregoing
shall not restrict the ability of the Corporation, or any affiliate of the Corporation, to engage
in any market-making transactions in the Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of
business. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series A Preferred Stock and any
Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series A Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock
shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will
bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per
share on Series A Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations on Parity
Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on
shares of Series A Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. If the Board of Directors of the
Corporation determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the
Corporation will provide, or cause to be provided, written notice to the holders of the Series A
Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends
(payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the
Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be
declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available
therefor, and the shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any
such dividend.

Section 5.  Liquidation Rights .

(a)  Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall be
entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the
assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside
for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or
series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series A Preferred Stock upon liquidation
and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a
liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share, plus
any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the date of
liquidation. The holder of Series A Preferred Stock shall

13 

not be entitled to any further payments
in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.

(b)  Partial Payment . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the
liquidation preference to all holders of Series A Preferred Stock and the liquidation preferences
of any Parity Stock to all holders of such Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series
A Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be  pro rata  in accordance with the
respective aggregate liquidation preferences of Series A Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.

(c)  Residual Distributions . If the liquidation preference has been paid in full to all
holders of Series A Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior
Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their
respective rights and preferences.

(d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5,
the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other
consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not
be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of
the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any
other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the
Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of
the affairs of the Corporation.

Section 6.  Redemption .

(a)  Optional Redemption . So long as full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series A
Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid or declared and a sum
sufficient for the payment thereof set aside, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of
Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem
in whole or in part the shares of Series A Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on
or after the later of the Dividend Payment Date in April 2011 and the date of original issuance of
the Series A Preferred Stock, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption
price for shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be $100,000 per share plus dividends that have
been declared but not paid plus accrued and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period
to the redemption date.

(b)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series A Preferred Stock
shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such
shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the
Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date
fixed for redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series A Preferred Stock is held in
book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.
Any notice mailed

14 

as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly
given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by
mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any other shares of Series A Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the
redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer
than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be
redeemed by such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the
certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v)
that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.

(c)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series A
Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series A Preferred Stock to be redeemed
shall be selected either  pro rata  from the holders of record of Series A Preferred Stock in
proportion to the number of Series A Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such
other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the
Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the
provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the
terms and conditions upon which shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to
time.

(d)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or
before the redemption date specified in the notice all assets necessary for the redemption have
been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the  pro
rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be
available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the
Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors
(the   Depositary Company  ) in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called
for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption
has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called
for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease
to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on
such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive
the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the
redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled
to
receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds,
and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any
funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the
extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such
repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be
deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount
deposited as stated above for

15 

the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but
shall in no event be entitled to any interest.

Section 7.  Voting Rights . The holders of Series A Preferred Stock will have no voting rights
and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law.

Section 8.  Conversion.  The holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to
convert such Series A Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the
Corporation.

Section 9.  Rank . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of incorporation or
this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the
Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the
vote of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of
Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class of securities ranking senior to the Series A Preferred
Stock as to dividends and upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up
of the affairs of the Corporation.

Section 10.  Repurchase . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may
purchase and sell Series A Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and
upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of
the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation
shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe
that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.

Section 11.  Unissued or Reacquired Shares . Shares of Series A Preferred Stock not issued or
which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the
Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock
without designation as to series.

Section 12.  No Sinking Fund . Shares of Series A Preferred Stock are not subject to the
operation of a sinking fund.

16 

Exhibit C  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 

OF 

SERIES B NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK 

Section 1.  Designation . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be Series B
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (hereinafter referred to as the   Series B Preferred
Stock  ). Each share of Series B Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other
share of Series B Preferred Stock. Series B Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock,
if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.

Section 2.  Number of Shares . The number of authorized shares of Series B Preferred Stock
shall be 40,000. Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total
number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of
Series B Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of
Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the
case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional
shares of Series B Preferred Stock.

Section 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series B Preferred Stock:

Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking
institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New
York, New York.

Depositary Company   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.

Dividend Payment Date   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.

Dividend Period   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.

DTC   means The Depositary Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.

Junior Stock   means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of
the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series B
Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution
of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

17 

London Banking Day   means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business
(including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England.

Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par
with Series B Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

Preferred Director   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 hereof.

Series B Preferred Stock   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.

Telerate Page 3750   means the display page so designated on the Moneyline/Telerate Service
(or such other page as may replace that page on that service, or such other service as may be
nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to
the London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits).

Three-Month LIBOR   means, with respect to any Dividend Period, the offered rate (expressed as
a percentage  per annum ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the
first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 a.m. (London time)
on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. If
such rate does not appear on Telerate Page 3750, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis
of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day
of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime
banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by
the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time on the second London Banking Day
immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. U.S. Bank National Association, or
such other bank as may be acting as calculation agent for the Corporation, will request the
principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two
such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the
arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If
fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will
be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates
quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00
a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to
leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period
and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if fewer than three banks selected
by the Corporation to provide quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for
that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend
Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been
determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had Series B Preferred Stock
been outstanding.

18 

The calculation agent s establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of
dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation,
will be made available to any holder of Series B Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and
binding in the absence of manifest error.

Section 4.  Dividends .

(a)  Rate . Holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when
declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board
of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative
cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series B Preferred Stock, and
no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15;
 provided ,  however , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise
payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any
interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a
  Dividend Payment Date  ). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series B
Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a
  Dividend Period .  Dividends on each share of Series B Preferred Stock will accrue on the
liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate  per annum  equal to the greater of (i)
Three-Month LIBOR plus 0.60%% or (ii) 3.50%. The record date for payment of dividends on the
Series B Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding
the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls. The amount of dividends payable shall be
computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed.

(b)  Non-Cumulative Dividends . Dividends on shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be
non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series B Preferred Stock
on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend
Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be
payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series B Preferred
Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend
Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not
dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series B Preferred Stock,
Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the
Corporation.

(c)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series B Preferred Stock remains
outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution
shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend
payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or
otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a
result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or
conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than
through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior
Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of
any such

19 

securities by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased,
redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to  pro
rata  offers to purchase all, or a  pro rata  portion, of the Series B Preferred Stock and such Parity
Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on
all outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been
paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. When dividends
are not paid in full upon the shares of Series B Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all
dividends declared upon shares of Series B Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared
on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other
the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series B
Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations on Parity Stock, bear to each
other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series B
Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. If the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines
not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will
provide, or cause to be provided, written notice to the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock
prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash,
stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any
Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of
Series B Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.

Section 5.  Liquidation Rights .

(a)  Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall be
entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the
assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and
subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on
parity with Series B Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s
depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the
liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends,
without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series
B Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary
or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than
what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.

(b)  Partial Payment . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the
liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends to all holders of Series
B Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series B
Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be  pro rata  in accordance with the
respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends of
Series B Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.

20 

(c)  Residual Distributions . If the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and
unpaid dividends has been paid in full to all holders of Series B Preferred Stock and all holders
of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets
of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.

(d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5,
the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other
consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not
be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of
the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any
other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the
Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of
the affairs of the Corporation.

Section 6.  Redemption .

(a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem in whole or in part
the shares of Series B Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after the
Dividend Payment Date in April 2011, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The
redemption price for shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus dividends
that have been declared but not paid.

(b)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series B Preferred Stock
shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such
shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the
Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date
fixed for redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series B Preferred Stock is held in
book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.
Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly
given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by
mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series B
Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any other shares of Series B Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the
redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer
than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be
redeemed by such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the
certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v)
that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.

(c)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series B
Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series B Preferred Stock

21 

to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  from the holders of record of Series B
Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series B Preferred Stock held by such holders or by
lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable.
Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the
Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and
authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall
be redeemed from time to time.

(d)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or
before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been
set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the  pro rata 
benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be
available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the
Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors
(the   Depositary Company  ) in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called
for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption
has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called
for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease
to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on
such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive
the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the
redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled
to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and
the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any
funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the
extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such
repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be
deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount
deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but
shall in no event be entitled to any interest.

Section 7.  Voting Rights . The holders of Series B Preferred Stock will have no voting rights
and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law and except
that:

(a)  Supermajority Voting Rights Amendments . Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a
greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the
holders of at least 66-2/3% of all of the shares the Series B Preferred Stock at the time
outstanding, voting separately as a class, shall be required to authorize any amendment of the
Certificate of Incorporation or of any certificate amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto
(including any certificate of designation or any similar document relating to any series of
preferred stock) which will materially and adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or
rights of the Series

22 

B Preferred Stock, taken as a whole; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of the
authorized or issued Series B Preferred Stock or authorized preferred stock of the Corporation or
the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series of
preferred stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series B Preferred Stock with respect to
the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be
deemed to adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the Series B Preferred
Stock.

(b)  Supermajority Voting Rights Priority . Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a
greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the
holders of at least 66-2/3% of all of the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock and all other
Parity Stock, at the time outstanding, voting as a single class without regard to series, shall be
required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of, or to issue or authorize any
obligation or security convertible into or evidencing the right to purchase, any additional class
or series of stock ranking prior to the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock and all other Parity
Stock as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation;

(c)  Special Voting Right .

(i)  Voting Right . If and whenever dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock or any
other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series B Preferred
Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted
by this Section 7(c) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an
aggregate amount equal, as to any class or series, to at least six quarterly Dividend
Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of
Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series B
Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized
preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such
preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in
dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without
regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors
of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in
the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not
cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York
Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that
listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that
the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two such
directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock
and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series B
Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends is a   Preferred Director  .

23 

(ii)  Election . The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual
meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series B Preferred Stock
and any other class or series of our stock that ranks on parity with Series B Preferred
Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid, called as
provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section
7(c)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any
holder of Series B Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation s
principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date
fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such
election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a
special meeting of the holders of Series B Preferred Stock and any other class or series of
preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series B Preferred Stock as to payment of
dividends and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors
to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(c)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors
shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.

(iii)  Notice for Special Meeting . Notice for a special meeting will be given in a
similar manner to that provided in the Corporation s by-laws for a special meeting of the
stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within
20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series B Preferred Stock may
(at our expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(c)(iii), and
for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred
Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual
meeting of our stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant
to Section 7(c)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs
(other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be
filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none
remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock (together
with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having
equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be
entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist)
to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders.

(iv)  Termination; Removal . Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the
Series B Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on
parity with Series B Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for at least four
Dividend Periods, then the right of the holders of Series B Preferred Stock to elect such
additional two directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the
vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in
respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will
immediately terminate and the number of directors constituting our board of directors will
be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by
the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding

24 

shares of the Series B Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other
class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights , 
whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the
election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting
rights described in this Section 7(c).

Section 8.  Conversion.  The holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to
convert such Series B Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the
Corporation.

Section 9.  Rank . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or
this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the
Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the
vote of the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of
Junior Stock, Parity Stock or, subject to the voting rights granted in Section 7(b), any class of
securities ranking senior to the Series B Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of
assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of
the Corporation.

Section 10.  Repurchase . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may
purchase and sell Series B Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and
upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of
the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation
shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe
that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.

Section 11.  Unissued or Reacquired Shares . Shares of Series B Preferred Stock not issued or
which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the
Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock
without designation as to series.

Section 12.  No Sinking Fund . Shares of Series B Preferred Stock are not subject to the
operation of a sinking fund.

25 

Exhibit D  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 

OF 

SERIES C NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK 

Section 1.  Designation . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be Series C
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (hereinafter referred to as the   Series C Preferred
Stock  ). Each share of Series C Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other
share of Series C Preferred Stock. Series C Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock,
if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.

Section 2.  Number of Shares . The number of authorized shares of Series C Preferred Stock
shall be five thousand (5,000). Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess
of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number
of shares of Series C Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the
Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board
of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of
the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as
the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue
fractional shares of Series C Preferred Stock.

Section 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series C Preferred Stock:

Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking
institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New
York, New York.

Depositary Company   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.

Dividend Payment Date   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.

Dividend Period   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.

DTC   means The Depositary Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.

Junior Stock   means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of
the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series C Preferred Stock has preference or priority
in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the Corporation.

26 

London Banking Day   means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business
(including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England.

Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par
with Series C Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

Preferred Director   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 hereof.

Series C Preferred Stock   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.

Telerate Page 3750   means the display page so designated on the Moneyline/Telerate Service
(or such other page as may replace that page on that service, or such other service as may be
nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to
the London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits).

Three-Month LIBOR   means, with respect to any Dividend Period beginning on or after January
15, 2012 and each Dividend Period thereafter, the offered rate (expressed as a percentage  per
annum ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that
Dividend Period that appears on Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second
London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. If such rate does
not appear on Telerate Page 3750, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at
which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that
Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in
the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the
Corporation, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time on the second London Banking Day immediately
preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. U.S. Bank National Association, or such other
bank as may be acting as calculation agent for the Corporation, will request the principal London
office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations
are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean
(rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two
quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the
arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by
three major banks in New York City selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New
York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading
European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in
a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if fewer than three banks selected by the
Corporation to provide quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that
Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend
Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been
determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had Series C Preferred Stock
been outstanding.

27 

The calculation agent s establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of
dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation,
will be made available to any holder of Series C Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and
binding in the absence of manifest error.

Section 4.  Dividends .

(a)  Rate . Holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when
declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board
of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative
cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share of Series C Preferred Stock, and
no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15;
 provided ,  however , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise
payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any
interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a
  Dividend Payment Date  ). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series C
Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a
  Dividend Period .  Dividends on each share of Series C Preferred Stock will accrue on the
liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (i) to but not including the Dividend Payment Date in
January 2012 at a rate  per annum  equal to 6.091%, and (ii) thereafter for each related Dividend
Period at a rate  per annum  equal to Three-Month LIBOR plus 1.147%.

(b)  Non-Cumulative Dividends . Dividends on shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be
non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series C Preferred Stock
on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend
Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be
payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series C Preferred
Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend
Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not
dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series C Preferred Stock,
Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the
Corporation.

(c)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series C Preferred Stock remains
outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution
shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend
payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or
otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a
result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or
conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than
through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior
Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of
any such securities by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased,
redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than

28 

pursuant to  pro rata  offers to purchase all, or a  pro rata  portion, of the Series C Preferred
Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case
unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock for the then-current
Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set
aside. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series C Preferred Stock and any
Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series C Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock
shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will
bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per
share on Series C Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations on Parity
Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on
shares of Series C Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. If the Board of Directors of the
Corporation determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the
Corporation will provide, or cause to be provided, written notice to the holders of the Series C
Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends
(payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the
Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be
declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available
therefor, and the shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any
such dividend.

Section 5.  Liquidation Rights .

(a)  Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall be
entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the
assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and
subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on
parity with Series C Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s
depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the
liquidation preference of $100,000 per share, plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends,
without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series
C Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary
or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than
what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.

(b)  Partial Payment . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the
liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends to all holders of Series
C Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series C
Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be  pro rata  in accordance with the
respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends of
Series C Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.

(c)  Residual Distributions . If the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and
unpaid dividends has been paid in full to all holders of Series
C Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be

29 

entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights
and preferences.

(d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5,
the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other
consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not
be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of
the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any
other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the
Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of
the affairs of the Corporation.

Section 6.  Redemption .

(a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem in whole or in part
the shares of Series C Preferred Stock at the time outstanding at any time upon notice given as
provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall
be $100,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid.

(b)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series C Preferred Stock
shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such
shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the
Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date
fixed for redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series C Preferred Stock is held in
book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.
Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly
given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by
mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series C
Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any other shares of Series C Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the
redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series C Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer
than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be
redeemed by such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the
certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v)
that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.

(c)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series C
Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series C Preferred Stock to be redeemed
shall be selected either  pro rata  from the holders of record of Series C Preferred Stock in
proportion to the number of Series C Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such
other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or
any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may

30 

determine to be
fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the
Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have
full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series C
Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.

(d)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or
before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been
set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the  pro rata 
benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be
available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the
Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors
(the   Depositary Company  ) in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called
for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption
has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called
for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease
to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on
such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive
the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the
redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled
to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and
the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any
funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the
extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such
repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be
deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount
deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but
shall in no event be entitled to any interest.

Section 7.  Voting Rights . The holders of Series C Preferred Stock will have no voting rights
and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law and except
that:

31 

(a)  Special Voting Right .

(i)  Voting Right . If and whenever dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock or any
other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series C Preferred
Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted
by this Section 7(a) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an
aggregate amount equal, as to any class or series, to at least six quarterly Dividend
Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of
Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series C
Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized
preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such
preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in
dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without
regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors
of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in
the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not
cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York
Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that
listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that
the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two such
directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock
and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series C
Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends is a   Preferred Director  .

(ii)  Election . The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual
meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock
and any other class or series of our stock that ranks on parity with Series C Preferred
Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid, called as
provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section
7(a)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any
holder of Series C Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation s
principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date
fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such
election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a
special meeting of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock and any other class or series of
preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of
dividends and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors
to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(a)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors
shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.

(iii)  Notice for Special Meeting . Notice for a special meeting will be given in a
similar manner to that provided in the Corporation s by-laws for a special meeting of the
stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does

32 

not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any
holder of Series C Preferred Stock may (at our expense) call such meeting, upon notice as
provided in this Section 7(a)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock
register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting
will hold office until the next annual meeting of our stockholders unless they have been
previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(a)(iv). In case any vacancy in the
office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the
Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred
Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of
the Series C Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s
authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of
such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such
default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the
stockholders.

(iv)  Termination; Removal . Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the
Series C Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on
parity with Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for three
consecutive Dividend Periods and full dividends have been paid or declared and set aside
for payment for the fourth consecutive Dividend Period, then the right of the holders of
Series C Preferred Stock to elect such additional two directors will cease (but subject
always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of
any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of
office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate and the number of directors
constituting our board of directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may
be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the
outstanding shares of the Series C Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other
class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights , 
whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the
election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting
rights described in this Section 7(a).

Section 8.  Conversion.  The holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to
convert such Series C Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the
Corporation.

Section 9.  Rank . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or
this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the
Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the
vote of the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of
Junior Stock, Parity Stock or, subject to the voting rights granted in Section 7(a), any class of
securities ranking senior to the Series C Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of
assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of
the Corporation.

33 

Section 10.  Repurchase . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may
purchase and sell Series C Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and
upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of
the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation
shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe
that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.

Section 11.  Unissued or Reacquired Shares . Shares of Series C Preferred Stock not issued or
which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the
Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock
without designation as to series.

Section 12.  No Sinking Fund . Shares of Series C Preferred Stock are not subject to the
operation of a sinking fund.

34 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 

OF 

SERIES D NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK 

OF 

U.S. BANCORP 

Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware

U.S. Bancorp, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the
State of Delaware (the   Corporation  ), does hereby certify that:

1. On March 10, 2008, the Credit and Finance Committee (the   Committee  ) of
the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the   Board  ), pursuant to authority
conferred upon the Committee by resolutions of the Board adopted at a meeting duly convened
and held on January 21, 2003, and by Section 141(c)(2) of the General Corporation Law of
the State of Delaware, duly adopted resolutions by unanimous written consent establishing
the terms of the Corporation s Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, $25,000
liquidation preference per share (the   Series D   Preferred Stock  ), and
authorized a sub-committee of the Committee (the   Subcommittee  ) to act on behalf
of the Committee in establishing the number of authorized shares and the dividend rate for
the Series D Preferred Stock.

2. Thereafter, on March 10, 2008, the Subcommittee duly adopted the following
resolution by written consent:

RESOLVED,  that the designations, and certain other preferences and
relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the
qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Series D
Preferred Stock, including those established by the Committee, and the
dividend rate established hereby, are as set forth in  Exhibit A 
hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Corporation
by its Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer this 12th day of March, 2008.

U.S. BANCORP 

/s/ Andrew Cecere

Name:   
     Andrew Cecere  

Title:   
     Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer  

EXHIBIT
A 

EXHIBIT A 

TO 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 

OF 

SERIES D NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK 

OF 

U.S. BANCORP 

Section 1.  Designation . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be Series D
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (hereinafter referred to as the   Series D Preferred
Stock  ). Each share of Series D Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other
share of Series D Preferred Stock. Series D Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock,
if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.

Section 2.  Number of Shares . The number of authorized shares of Series D Preferred Stock
shall be 20,000. Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total
number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of
Series D Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of
Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the
case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional
shares of Series D Preferred Stock.

Section 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series D Preferred Stock:

Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking
institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New
York, New York.

Depositary Company   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.

Dividend Payment Date   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.

Dividend Period   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.

DTC   means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.

Junior Stock   means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of
the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series D Preferred Stock has preference or priority
in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the Corporation.

Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a
parity with Series D Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets
on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

Preferred Director   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 hereof.

Series D Preferred Stock   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.

Section 4.  Dividends .

(a)  Rate . Holders of Series D Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when
declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board
of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative
cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series D Preferred Stock, and
no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15;
 provided ,  however , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise
payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any
interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a
  Dividend Payment Date  ). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series D
Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a
  Dividend Period .  Dividends on each share of Series D Preferred Stock will accrue on the
liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate  per annum  equal to 7.875%. The record date
for payment of dividends on the Series D Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the
calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls. The
amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number
of days elapsed.

(b)  Non-Cumulative Dividends . Dividends on shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall be
non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series D Preferred Stock
on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend
Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be
payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series D Preferred
Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend
Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not
dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series D

2 

Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized
preferred stock of the Corporation.

(c)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series D Preferred Stock remains
outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution
shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend
payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or
otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a
result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or
conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than
through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior
Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of
any such securities by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased,
redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to  pro
rata  offers to purchase all, or a  pro rata  portion, of the Series D Preferred Stock and such Parity
Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on
all outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been
paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. When dividends
are not paid in full upon the shares of Series D Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all
dividends declared upon shares of Series D Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared
on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other
the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series D
Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations, on Parity Stock, bear to each
other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series D
Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. If the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines
not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will
provide, or cause to be provided, written notice to the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock
prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, dividends (payable in cash, stock
or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any
Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of
Series D Preferred Stock or Parity Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.

Section 5.  Liquidation Rights .

(a)  Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series D Preferred Stock shall be
entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the
assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and
subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on
parity with Series D Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s
depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the
liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends,
without accumulation of any

3 

undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series D Preferred Stock
shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is
expressly provided for in this Section 5.

(b)  Partial Payment . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the
liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends to all holders of Series
D Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series D
Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be  pro rata  in accordance with the
respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends of
Series D Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.

(c)  Residual Distributions . If the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and
unpaid dividends has been paid in full to all holders of Series D Preferred Stock and all holders
of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets
of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.

(d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5,
the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other
consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not
be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of
the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any
other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the
Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of
the affairs of the Corporation.

Section 6.  Redemption .

(a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem in whole or in part
the shares of Series D Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after the
Dividend Payment Date in April 201   , upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The
redemption price for shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus dividends
that have been declared but not paid.

(b)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series D Preferred Stock
shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such
shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the
Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date
fixed for redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series D Preferred Stock is held in
book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.
Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been
duly given,

4 

whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such
notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of
Series D Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings
for the redemption of any other shares of Series D Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i)
the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series D Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if
fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be
redeemed by such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the
certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v)
that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.

(c)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series D
Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series D Preferred Stock to be redeemed
shall be selected either  pro rata  from the holders of record of Series D Preferred Stock in
proportion to the number of Series D Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such
other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the
Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the
provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the
terms and conditions upon which shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to
time.

(d)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or
before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been
set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the  pro rata 
benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be
available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the
Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors
(the   Depositary Company  ) in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called
for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption
has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called
for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease
to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on
such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive
the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the
redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled
to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and
the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any
funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the
extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such
repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be
deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount
deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but
shall in no event be entitled to any interest.

5 

Section 7.  Voting Rights . The holders of Series D Preferred Stock will have no voting rights
and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law and except
that:

(a)  Supermajority Voting Rights Amendments . Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a
greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the
holders of at least 66-2/3% of all of the shares the Series D Preferred Stock at the time
outstanding, voting separately as a class, shall be required to authorize any amendment of the
Certificate of Incorporation or of any certificate amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto
(including any certificate of designations or any similar document relating to any series of
preferred stock) which will materially and adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or
rights of the Series D Preferred Stock, taken as a whole; provided, however, that any increase in
the amount of the authorized or issued Series D Preferred Stock or authorized preferred stock of
the Corporation or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of
other series of preferred stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series D Preferred Stock
with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative)
and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation
will not be deemed to adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the Series
D Preferred Stock.

(b)  Supermajority Voting Rights Priority . Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a
greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the
holders of at least 66-2/3% of all of the shares of the Series D Preferred Stock and all other
Parity Stock, at the time outstanding, voting as a single class without regard to series, shall be
required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of, or to issue or authorize any
obligation or security convertible into or evidencing the right to purchase, any additional class
or series of stock ranking prior to the shares of the Series D Preferred Stock and all other Parity
Stock as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation;

(c)  Special Voting Right .

(i)  Voting Right . If and whenever dividends on the Series D Preferred Stock or any
other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series D Preferred
Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted
by this Section 7(c) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an
aggregate amount equal, as to any class or series, to at least six quarterly Dividend
Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of
Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series D
Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized
preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such
preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in
dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without
regard to series, to the exclusion

6 

of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such
newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships),
provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the
corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on
which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a
majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the
Corporation shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director
elected by the holders of shares of Series D Preferred Stock and any other class or series
of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series D Preferred Stock as to payment of
dividends is a   Preferred Director  .

(ii)  Election . The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual
meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series D Preferred Stock
and any other class or series of the Corporation s stock that ranks on parity with Series D
Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid,
called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant
to Section 7(c)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written
request of any holder of Series D Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the
Corporation s principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days
before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which
event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders),
call a special meeting of the holders of Series D Preferred Stock and any other class or
series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series D Preferred Stock as to payment
of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two
directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(c)(iii) below. The Preferred
Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.

(iii)  Notice for Special Meeting . Notice for a special meeting will be given in a
similar manner to that provided in the Corporation s by-laws for a special meeting of the
stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within
20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series D Preferred Stock may
(at the Corporation s expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section
7(c)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation.
The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next
annual meeting of the Corporation s stockholders unless they have been previously
terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(c)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of
a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred
Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director
remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series
D Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized
preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such
preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such

7 

default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the
stockholders.

(iv)  Termination; Removal . Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the
Series D Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on
parity with Series D Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for at least four
consecutive Dividend Periods, then the right of the holders of Series D Preferred Stock to
elect such additional two directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions
for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of
dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred
Directors will immediately terminate and the number of directors constituting the
Corporation s board of directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be
removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding
 shares of Series D Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the
Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not
the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors
if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in
this Section 7(c).

Section 8.  Conversion.  The holders of Series D Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to
convert such Series D Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the
Corporation.

Section 9.  Rank . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or
this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the
Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the
vote of the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of
Junior Stock, Parity Stock or, subject to the voting rights granted in Section 7(b), any class of
securities ranking senior to the Series D Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of
assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of
the Corporation.

Section 10.  Repurchase . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may
purchase and sell Series D Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and
upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of
the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation
shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe
that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.

Section 11.  Unissued or Reacquired Shares . Shares of Series D Preferred Stock not issued or
which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the
Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock
without designation as to series.

8 

Section 12.  No Sinking Fund . Shares of Series D Preferred Stock are not subject to the
operation of a sinking fund.

9 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 

OF 

SERIES E FIXED RATE CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK 

OF 

U.S. BANCORP 

U.S. Bancorp, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware
(the   Corporation  ), in accordance with the provisions of Section 151(g) of the Delaware
General Corporation Law thereof, does hereby certify:

The board of directors of the Corporation (the   Board of Directors  ) or an applicable
committee of the Board of Directors, in accordance with the restated certificate of incorporation
and amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, adopted the following
resolution on November 12, 2008 creating a series of 6,599,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the
Corporation designated as   Series E Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock  .

RESOLVED , that pursuant to the provisions of the restated certificate of incorporation and the
bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per
share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares
of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional
or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of
such series, are as follows:

Part 1.  Designation and Number of Shares . There is hereby created out of the
authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation a series of preferred stock
designated as the  Series E Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock  (the   Designated
Preferred Stock  ). The authorized number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be
6,599,000.

Part 2.  Standard Provisions . The Standard Provisions contained in Annex A attached
hereto are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of
this Certificate of Designations to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in
full herein.

Part. 3.  Definitions . The following terms are used in this Certificate of
Designations (including the Standard Provisions in Annex A hereto) as defined below:

(a)   Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the
Corporation.

(b)   Dividend Payment Date   means February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of
each year.

(c)   Junior Stock   means the Common Stock, Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation the terms of which expressly

1 

provide that it ranks junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to
rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

(d)   Liquidation Amount   means $1,000 per share of Designated Preferred Stock.

(e)   Minimum Amount   means $1,649,750,000.

(f)   Parity Stock   means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than
Designated Preferred Stock) the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series
will rank senior or junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights
on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to
whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively). Without limiting the foregoing, Parity
Stock shall include the Corporation s Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock and
Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock.

(g)   Signing Date   means the Original Issue Date.

Part. 4.  Certain Voting Matters . Holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock will
be entitled to one vote for each such share on any matter on which holders of Designated Preferred
Stock are entitled to vote, including any action by written consent.

Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank  

2 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, U.S. Bancorp has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by
Andrew Cecere, its Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, this 13th day of November, 2008.

U.S. BANCORP 

By:

/s/ Andrew Cecere 

Name:

Andrew Cecere 

Title:

Vice Chairman and 

Chief Financial Officer 

ANNEX A 

STANDARD PROVISIONS  

Section 1.  General Matters . Each share of Designated Preferred Stock shall be identical in
all respects to every other share of Designated Preferred Stock. The Designated Preferred Stock
shall be perpetual, subject to the provisions of Section 5 of these Standard Provisions that form a
part of the Certificate of Designations. The Designated Preferred Stock shall rank equally with
Parity Stock and shall rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the
Corporation.   

Section 2.  Standard Definitions . As used herein with respect to Designated Preferred
Stock:

(a)   Applicable Dividend Rate   means (i) during the period from the Original Issue
Date to, but excluding, the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth
anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 5% per annum and (ii) from and after the first day of the
first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 9%
per annum.

(b)   Appropriate Federal Banking Agency   means the  appropriate Federal banking
agency  with respect to the Corporation as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)), or any successor provision.

(c)   Business Combination   means a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or
similar transaction that requires the approval of the Corporation s stockholders.

(d)   Business Day   means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banking
institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other
governmental actions to close.

(e)   Bylaws   means the bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to
time.

(f)   Certificate of Designations   means the Certificate of Designations or comparable
instrument relating to the Designated Preferred Stock, of which these Standard Provisions form a
part, as it may be amended from time to time.

(g)   Charter   means the Corporation s certificate or articles of incorporation,
articles of association, or similar organizational document.

(h)   Dividend Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).

(i)   Dividend Record Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).

(j)   Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).

A-1 

(k)   Original Issue Date   means the date on which shares of Designated Preferred Stock
are first issued.

(l)   Preferred Director   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).

(m)   Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation,
including the Designated Preferred Stock.

(n)   Qualified Equity Offering   means the sale and issuance for cash by the
Corporation to persons other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries after the Original
Issue Date of shares of perpetual Preferred Stock, Common Stock or any combination of such stock,
that, in each case, qualify as and may be included in Tier 1 capital of the Corporation at the time
of issuance under the applicable risk-based capital guidelines of the Corporation s Appropriate
Federal Banking Agency (other than any such sales and issuances made pursuant to agreements or
arrangements entered into, or pursuant to financing plans which were publicly announced, on or
prior to October 13, 2008).

(o)   Share Dilution Amount   has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b).

(p)   Standard Provisions   mean these Standard Provisions that form a part of the
Certificate of Designations relating to the Designated Preferred Stock.

(q)   Successor Preferred Stock   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a).

(r)   Voting Parity Stock   means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of
Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as specified in Sections 7(a) and 7(b) of these
Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations, any and all series of
Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to
such matter.

Section 3.  Dividends .

(a)  Rate . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, on each
share of Designated Preferred Stock if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors or any duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of assets legally available therefor,
cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a rate per
annum equal to the Applicable Dividend Rate on (i) the Liquidation Amount per share of Designated
Preferred Stock and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends for any prior Dividend Period
on such share of Designated Preferred Stock, if any. Such dividends shall begin to accrue and be
cumulative from the Original Issue Date, shall compound on each subsequent Dividend Payment Date
( i.e. , no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment
Date for such other dividends has passed without such
other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable quarterly in arrears on
each Dividend Payment Date, commencing with the first such Dividend Payment Date to occur at least
20 calendar days after the Original Issue Date. In the event that any Dividend Payment Date would
otherwise fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the dividend payment due on that date will be
postponed to the next day that is a Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a
result of that postponement. The period from and including any Dividend

A-2 

Payment Date to, but
excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a   Dividend Period  , provided that the initial
Dividend Period shall be the period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding,
the next Dividend Payment Date.

Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock in respect of any Dividend Period
shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of
dividends payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period,
and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of
twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.

Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date will be
payable to holders of record of Designated Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of
the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day immediately
preceding such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or
any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10
days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ). Any such day
that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a
Business Day.

Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable
in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on
Designated Preferred Stock as specified in this Section 3 (subject to the other provisions of the
Certificate of Designations).

(b)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Designated Preferred Stock remains
outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other
shares of Junior Stock (other than dividends payable solely in shares of Common Stock) or Parity
Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph in the case of Parity Stock, and no Common
Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be, directly or indirectly, purchased, redeemed or
otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries unless all
accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend
Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on
all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been or are contemporaneously declared
and paid in full (or have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set
aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock on the applicable
record date). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) redemptions, purchases or other
acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the administration
of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset the
Share Dilution Amount (as defined below) pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan) and
consistent with past practice,  provided  that any purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount
shall in no event exceed the Share Dilution Amount; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a
broker-dealer subsidiary of the
Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation
transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business; (iii)
purchases by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation of capital stock of the Corporation for
resale pursuant to an offering by the Corporation of such capital stock underwritten by such
broker-dealer subsidiary; (iv) any dividends or distributions of rights or Junior Stock in
connection with a stockholders  rights plan or any redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to
any stockholders  rights plan; (v) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of

A-3 

record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of any other persons
(other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or custodians; and
(vi) the exchange or conversion of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock
for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior
Stock, in each case, solely to the extent required pursuant to binding contractual agreements
entered into prior to the Signing Date or any subsequent agreement for the accelerated exercise,
settlement or exchange thereof for Common Stock.   Share Dilution Amount   means the
increase in the number of diluted shares outstanding (determined in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles in the United States, and as measured from the date of the
Corporation s consolidated financial statements most recently filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission prior to the Original Issue Date) resulting from the grant, vesting or exercise
of equity-based compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock split, stock
dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction.

When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside
for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date
(or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment
Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment
Date) in full upon Designated Preferred Stock and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends
declared on Designated Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend
Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the
Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to
such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such
dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per
share on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock (including, if applicable as provided in Section
3(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date
(or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment
Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend
Payment Date) (subject to their having been declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors out of legally available funds and including, in the case of
Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued but unpaid dividends) bear to each other.
If the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors determines not
to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide
written notice to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock prior to such Dividend Payment Date.

Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or
other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any securities, including
Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such
payment, and holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such
dividends.

Section 4.  Liquidation Rights .

(a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution
or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary,

A-4 

holders of
Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Designated Preferred
Stock, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus)
available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, subject to the rights of any
creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set
aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to
Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum
of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends
(including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or
not declared, to the date of payment (such amounts collectively, the   Liquidation
Preference  ).

(b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets
of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with
respect to all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts
payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated
Preferred Stock as to such distribution, holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the holders of
such other stock shall share ratably in any such distribution in proportion to the full respective
distributions to which they are entitled.

(c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all
holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any
other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such
distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled
to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their
respective rights and preferences.

(d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this
Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other
entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock
receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for
cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation,
shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

Section 5.  Redemption .

(a)  Optional Redemption . Except as provided below, the Designated Preferred Stock may
not be redeemed prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary
of the Original Issue Date. On or after the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the
third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the
approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time
and from time to time, out of funds legally available therefor, the shares of Designated Preferred
Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption
price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise
provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section
3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared)
to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.

A-5 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after
the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the
approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time
and from time to time, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon
notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the
Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid
dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount)
(regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for
redemption;  provided  that (x) the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) has
received aggregate gross proceeds of not less than the Minimum Amount (plus the  Minimum Amount  as
defined in the relevant certificate of designations for each other outstanding series of preferred
stock of such successor that was originally issued to the United States Department of the Treasury
(the   Successor Preferred Stock  ) in connection with the Troubled Asset Relief Program
Capital Purchase Program) from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity
Offerings of such successor), and (y) the aggregate redemption price of the Designated Preferred
Stock (and any Successor Preferred Stock) redeemed pursuant to this paragraph may not exceed the
aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination)
from such Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor).

The redemption price for any shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be payable on the
redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing
such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a
redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not
be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather
shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating
to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 3 above.

(b)  No Sinking Fund . The Designated Preferred Stock will not be subject to any
mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Designated Preferred
Stock will have no right to require redemption or repurchase of any shares of Designated Preferred
Stock.

(c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Designated Preferred
Stock shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of
the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the
Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed
for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to
have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such
notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of
Designated Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the
proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Designated Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The
Depository Trust Corporation or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to
the holders of Designated Preferred Stock at such time and in any manner permitted by such
facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the
number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock to be

A-6 

redeemed and, if less than all the shares held
by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3)
the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be
surrendered for payment of the redemption price.

(d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Designated
Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro
rata  or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof may
determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Board of Directors or a
duly authorized committee thereof shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. If
fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be
issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.

(e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on
or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have
been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares
called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The
City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $500 million and selected by the
Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding
that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for
cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so
called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding
and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and
terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such
redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of
three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the
Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to
the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.

(f)  Status of Redeemed Shares . Shares of Designated Preferred Stock that are redeemed,
repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares
of Preferred Stock ( provided  that any such cancelled shares of Designated Preferred Stock may be
reissued only as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than Designated Preferred Stock).

Section 6.  Conversion . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shares shall have no
right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.

Section 7.  Voting Rights .

(a)  General . The holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any voting
rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law.

(b)  Preferred Stock Directors . Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on
the shares of Designated Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly

A-7 

Dividend Periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors of the
Corporation shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of the Designated Preferred
Stock shall have the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other classes or series of
Voting Parity Stock outstanding at the time, voting together as a class, to elect two directors
(hereinafter the   Preferred Directors  
and each a   Preferred Director  ) to fill
such newly created directorships at the Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders (or at a
special meeting called for that purpose prior to such next annual meeting) and at each subsequent
annual meeting of stockholders until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend
Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in
Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred
Stock have been declared and paid in full at which time such right shall terminate with respect to
the Designated Preferred Stock, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting
in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned;  provided  that
it shall be a qualification for election for any Preferred Director that the election of such
Preferred Director shall not cause the Corporation to violate any corporate governance requirements
of any securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may
then be listed or traded that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent
directors. Upon any termination of the right of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred
Stock and Voting Parity Stock as a class to vote for directors as provided above, the Preferred
Directors shall cease to be qualified as directors, the term of office of all Preferred Directors
then in office shall terminate immediately and the authorized number of directors shall be reduced
by the number of Preferred Directors elected pursuant hereto. Any Preferred Director may be
removed at any time, with or without cause, and any vacancy created thereby may be filled, only by
the affirmative vote of the holders a majority of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the
time outstanding voting separately as a class together with the holders of shares of Voting Parity
Stock, to the extent the voting rights of such holders described above are then exercisable. If
the office of any Preferred
Director becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the
remaining Preferred Director may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in
respect of which such vacancy occurred.

(c)  Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters . So long as any shares of Designated
Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required
by law or by the Charter, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of
Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting as a separate class, given in person or
by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose,
shall be necessary for effecting or validating:

(i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the
Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter to authorize
or create or increase the authorized amount of, or any issuance of, any shares of, or any
securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of, any class or
series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to Designated Preferred Stock with
respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;

A-8 

(ii)  Amendment of Designated Preferred Stock . Any amendment, alteration or
repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred
Stock or the Charter (including, unless no vote on such merger or consolidation is required
by Section 7(c)(iii) below, any amendment, alteration or repeal by means of a merger,
consolidation or otherwise) so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or
voting powers of the Designated Preferred Stock; or

(iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any
consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Designated
Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation
or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Designated Preferred Stock remain
outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the
Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for
preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y)
such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have
such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions
thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than
the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions
thereof, of Designated Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a
whole;

provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the
authorized Preferred Stock, including any increase in the authorized amount of Designated Preferred
Stock necessary to satisfy preemptive or similar rights granted by the Corporation to other persons
prior to the Signing Date, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued
amount, whether pursuant to preemptive or similar rights or otherwise, of any other series of
Preferred Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any other
series of Preferred Stock, ranking equally with and/or junior to
Designated Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are
cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences,
privileges or voting powers, and shall not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders
of outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock.

(d)  Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of
Designated Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(c) above if, at or prior to the
time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all
outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been
called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust
for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 5 above.

(e)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and
conducting any meeting of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock (including, without limitation,
the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a
meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a
meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors or any duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may

A-9 

adopt from time to time,
which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Charter, the Bylaws, and
applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which
Designated Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.

Section 8.  Record Holders . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the
Corporation and the transfer agent for Designated Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record
holder of any share of Designated Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all
purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to
the contrary.

Section 9.  Notices . All notices or communications in respect of Designated Preferred
Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class
mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of
Designations, in the Charter or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust
Corporation or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of Designated
Preferred Stock in any manner permitted by such facility.

Section 10.  No Preemptive Rights . No share of Designated Preferred Stock shall have
any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants,
rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or
such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.

Section 11.  Replacement Certificates . The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder s expense upon
surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation shall replace certificates that
become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder s expense upon delivery to the Corporation of
reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together
with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation.

Section 12.  Other Rights . The shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any
rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other
special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth
herein or in the Charter or as provided by applicable law.

A-10 

CERTIFICATE OF ELIMINATION 
OF THE 
SERIES A JUNIOR PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK 
OF 
U.S. BANCORP 

(Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware)

U.S. Bancorp, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the
State of Delaware (the  Company ), in accordance with the provisions of Section 151(g) of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies as follows:

1. Pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Directors of the Company by the
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (the  Certificate of Incorporation ), the
Board of Directors previously adopted resolutions creating and authorizing the issuance of
4,000,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (the  Series A Preferred Stock )
in accordance with the provisions of a Certificate of Designations relating to the Series A
Preferred Stock (the  Series A Certificate of Designations ) as filed with the Delaware Secretary
of State on March 1, 2001.

2. None of the authorized shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding and none will
be issued subject to the Series A Certificate of Designations.

3. Pursuant to the authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company pursuant to
the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors adopted the resolutions on December 9,
2008, approving the filing of a Certificate of Elimination of the Series A Preferred Stock (the
 Series A Certificate of Elimination ) and the elimination of the Series A Preferred Stock set
forth below:

RESOLVED, that none of the authorized shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are
outstanding, and that none shall be issued pursuant to the Series A Certificate of
Designations; and be it

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Authorized Officers of the Company are authorized and
directed, in the name and on behalf of the Company, to prepare, execute and deliver to the
Secretary of State of the State of Delaware the Series A Certificate of Elimination, as
required by the Delaware General Corporation Law in order to effect the elimination of the
Series A Preferred Stock; and be it

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Authorized Officers of the Company are hereby authorized and
directed for and on behalf of the Company, to execute and deliver any and all certificates,
agreements and other documents, take any and all steps and do any and all things which they
may deem necessary or advisable in order to effectuate the purposes of each and all of the
foregoing resolutions; and be it

FURTHER RESOLVED, that any actions taken by the Authorized Officers prior to the date
of this meeting that are within the authority conferred hereby are hereby ratified,
confirmed and approved in all respects as the act and deed of the Company.

4. In accordance with the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the
State of Delaware, all matters set forth in the Series A Certificate of Designations be, and hereby
are, eliminated from the Certificate of Incorporation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Elimination to be executed by
its duly authorized officer on this 9th day of December, 2008.

U.S. BANCORP 

By: 
       
     /s/ Lee R. Mitau 

Name:

Lee R. Mitau 

Title:

Executive Vice President,  General Counsel and 

Corporate Secretary 

2  

</EX-3.1>

<EX-12>
 3
 c48687exv12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

EXHIBIT 12               

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 4
 c48687exv13.htm
 EX-13

EX-13 

Management s Discussion and Analysis

OVERVIEW

In 2008, U.S. Bancorp and its subsidiaries (the
     Company ) continued to demonstrate financial strength
    despite significant weakness in the domestic and global economy.
    Difficulties which began in the mortgage lending and
    homebuilding industries in 2007 expanded to many other sectors
    in 2008, as the impact of mortgage delinquencies, defaults and
    foreclosures, and falling housing values affected consumer
    confidence and led to a domestic recession in the United States.
    Despite these challenges, the Company s comparative
    strength enabled it to attract significant new customers, and
    invest in business initiatives that strengthen its presence and
    product offerings for customers. While not immune to current
    economic conditions, the Company s well diversified
    business has provided substantial resiliency to the credit
    challenges faced by financial institutions in today s
    environment.

Despite the market challenges, the Company earned
    $2.9 billion in 2008. Additionally, the Company s
    balance sheet is strong, reflecting prudent credit underwriting
    and allowance for credit losses, and strong capital and
    liquidity. In late 2008, the Company also increased its
    regulatory capital through the sale of $6.6 billion in
    preferred stock and warrants to the United States Treasury
    through the Capital Purchase Program. At December 31, 2008,
    the Company s Tier 1 capital ratio was
    10.6 percent and its total risk-based capital ratio was
    14.3 percent. Credit rating organizations rate the
    Company s debt among the highest of the Company s
    large domestic banking peers, demonstrating the Company s
    financial strength. At December 31, 2008, the
    Company s tangible common equity divided by tangible assets
    was 3.2 percent (4.5 percent excluding accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss)).

In 2008, the Company grew its loan portfolio and increased
    deposits significantly, both organically and through
    acquisition, including operations acquired from the Federal
    Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ). The
    Company s organic loan growth was $18.4 billion
    (12.0 percent) in addition to $13.0 billion of
    acquired loans. Organic deposit growth was $14.4 billion
    (11.0 percent) in addition to $13.5 billion assumed in
    acquisitions. Although the balance sheet grew, increasing net
    interest income, net income decreased $1.4 billion from
    2007, principally a result of increased provisions for credit
    losses and impairment on structured investment related
    securities because of lower valuations driven by declining home
    prices and other economic factors. As a result of the housing
    and overall economic weaknesses, the Company s level of
    nonperforming assets as a percent of total loans and other real
    estate increased to 1.42 percent at December 31, 2008
    from .45 percent at December 31, 2007.

The Company s financial strength, business model, credit
    culture and focus on efficiency have enabled it to deliver solid
    financial performance. Given the current economic environment,
    the Company will continue to focus on managing credit losses and
    operating costs, while also utilizing its financial strength to
    grow market share. The Company believes it is well positioned
    for long-term growth in earnings per common share and
    industry-leading return on common equity. The Company intends to
    achieve these financial objectives by providing high-quality
    customer service, carefully managing costs, and where
    appropriate, strategically investing in businesses that
    diversify and generate fee-based revenues, enhance the
    Company s distribution network or expand its product
    offerings.

Earnings Summary
       The Company reported net
    income of $2.9 billion in 2008, or $1.61 per diluted common
    share, compared with $4.3 billion, or $2.43 per diluted
    common share, in 2007. Return on average assets and return on
    average common equity were 1.21 percent and
    13.9 percent, respectively, in 2008, compared with
    1.93 percent and 21.3 percent, respectively, in 2007.
    The decline in the Company s net income in 2008 was
    principally a result of higher provisions for credit loss and
    securities impairment charges. Credit quality of the loan
    portfolios declined in 2008 as a result of declines in housing
    markets and overall economic conditions. As a result, the
    Company recognized $1.3 billion in provisions for credit
    losses in excess of net charge-offs. Total net charge-offs were
    1.10 percent of average loans outstanding in 2008, compared
    with .54 percent in 2007. The Company expects credit
    conditions to continue to worsen in 2009 with some moderation in
    the rate of deterioration late in the year if stimulus programs
    begin to favorably impact economic conditions. The Company also
    recorded $978 million of net securities losses, which
    included valuation impairment charges on structured investment
    securities, perpetual preferred stock (including the stock of
    government-sponsored enterprises ( GSEs )) and
    non-agency mortgage backed securities.

Total net revenue, on a taxable-equivalent basis, for 2008 was
    $617 million (4.4 percent) higher than 2007,
    reflecting a 16.3 percent increase in net interest income,
    partially offset by a 6.6 percent decrease in noninterest
    income. Net interest income increased in 2008 as a result of
    strong growth in average earning assets of 10.5 percent
    year-over-year, as well as an improved net interest margin. The

U.S. BANCORP   19 

net interest margin increased from 3.47 percent in 2007 to
    3.66 percent in 2008, partially because of growth in
    higher-spread loans, but also the result of the Company s
    interest rate sensitivity position benefiting from declining
    market rates. Noninterest income declined from a year ago
    because of the security impairment charges and increasing losses
    on retail lease end-of-term values, which reflected the
    weakening economy. The Company recorded $551 million of
    gains related to its ownership position in Visa, Inc.
    ( Visa Gains ), partially offsetting the decreases in
    noninterest income.

The Company s efficiency ratio (the ratio of noninterest
    expense to taxable-equivalent net revenue excluding net
    securities gains or losses) continues to be among the best in
    the banking industry, decreasing to 47.4 percent in 2008
    from 49.7 percent in 2007. Total noninterest expense in
    2008 increased $428 million (6.1 percent), compared
    with 2007 as a result of continued investments in initiatives to

Table
    1        SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA 

(a)

Presented
    on a fully taxable-equivalent basis utilizing a tax rate of
    35 percent.   

(b)

Computed
    as noninterest expense divided by the sum of net interest income
    on a taxable-equivalent basis and noninterest income excluding
    securities gains (losses), net.   

20     U.S. BANCORP

expand the Company s geographical presence and strengthen
    customer relationships, including acquisitions, investments in
    relationship managers, branch initiatives and Payment
    Services  businesses. Growth in expenses from a year ago
    also included costs related to investments in affordable housing
    and other tax-advantaged products and an increase in
    credit-related costs for other real estate owned and collection
    activities.

Acquisitions
       On November 21,
    2008, the Company acquired the banking operations of Downey
    Savings   Loan Association, F.A., and PFF
    Bank   Trust ( Downey  and  PFF ,
    respectively) from the FDIC. The Company acquired
    $13.7 billion of Downey s assets and assumed
    $12.3 billion of its liabilities, and acquired
    $3.7 billion of PFF s assets and assumed
    $3.5 billion of its liabilities. In connection with these
    acquisitions, the Company entered into loss sharing agreements
    with the FDIC ( Loss Sharing Agreements ) providing
    for specified credit loss and asset yield protection for all
    single family residential mortgages and a significant portion of
    commercial and commercial real estate loans and foreclosed real
    estate ( covered assets ). At the acquisition date,
    the Company estimated the covered assets would incur
    approximately $4.7 billion of cumulative losses, including
    the present value of expected interest rate decreases on loans
    the Company expects to modify. These losses, if incurred, will
    be offset by an estimated $2.4 billion benefit to be
    received by the Company from the FDIC under the Loss Sharing
    Agreements. Under the terms of the Loss Sharing Agreements, the
    Company will incur the first $1.6 billion of specified
    losses ( First Loss Position ) on the covered assets,
    which was approximately the predecessors  carrying amount
    of the net assets acquired. The Company acquired these net
    assets for a nominal amount of consideration. After the First
    Loss Position, the Company will incur 20 percent of the
    next $3.1 billion of specified losses and only
    5 percent of specified losses beyond that amount. The
    Company estimates its share of losses beyond the First Loss
    Position will be approximately $.7 billion, which was
    approximately the amount the Company considered in determining
    the amount of its bid for the acquired operations.

The Company identified the acquired non-revolving loans
    experiencing credit deterioration, representing the majority of
    assets acquired, and recorded these assets in the financial
    statements at their estimated fair value, reflecting expected
    credit losses and the estimated impact of the Loss Sharing
    Agreements. As a result, the Company will not record additional
    provision for credit losses or report charge-offs on these loans
    unless further credit deterioration occurs after the date of
    acquisition. The Company recorded all other loans at the
    predecessors  carrying amount, net of fair value
    adjustments for any interest rate related discount or premium,
    and an allowance for credit losses. At December 31, 2008,
    $11.5 billion of the Company s assets were covered by
    Loss Sharing Agreements. The Company s financial
    disclosures segregate acquired covered assets from assets not
    subject to the Loss Sharing Agreements.

Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for additional information regarding business
    combinations.

STATEMENT OF INCOME
    ANALYSIS

Net Interest
    Income    Net interest
    income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, was $7.9 billion in
    2008, compared with $6.8 billion in 2007 and 2006. The
    $1.1 billion (16.3 percent) increase in net interest
    income in 2008, compared with 2007, was attributed to strong
    growth in average earning assets, as well as an improved net
    interest margin. Average earning assets were $215.0 billion
    for 2008, compared with $194.7 billion and
    $186.2 billion for 2007 and 2006, respectively. The
    $20.3 billion (10.5 percent) increase in average
    earning assets in 2008 over 2007 was principally a result of
    growth in total average loans of $18.2 billion
    (12.4 percent) and average investment securities of
    $1.5 billion (3.7 percent). The net interest margin in
    2008 was 3.66 percent, compared with 3.47 percent in
    2007 and 3.65 percent in 2006. The increase in the net
    interest margin reflected growth in higher-spread loans,
    asset/liability re-pricing in a declining interest rate
    environment and wholesale funding mix during a period of
    significant volatility in short-term funding markets. Refer to
    the  Interest Rate Risk Management  section for
    further information on the sensitivity of the Company s net
    interest income to changes in interest rates.

Average total loans were $165.6 billion in 2008, compared
    with $147.3 billion in 2007. Average loans increased
    $18.2 billion (12.4 percent) in 2008, driven by growth
    in retail loans of $6.7 billion (13.7 percent),
    commercial loans of $6.5 billion (13.6 percent),
    commercial real estate loans of $2.5 billion
    (8.8 percent), residential mortgages of $1.2 billion
    (5.3 percent) and covered assets of $1.3 billion. The
    increase in average retail loans included growth in credit card
    balances of 24.9 percent as a result of growth in branch
    originated, co-branded and financial institution partner
    portfolios. Average installment and home equity loans included
    in retail loans increased 7.1 percent and
    10.2 percent, respectively, while average retail leasing
    balances declined approximately 17.1 percent as the Company
    adjusted its programs to reflect current market conditions,
    reducing new lease production. Retail loan growth in 2008 also
    included an increase of $2.6 billion in average federally
    guaranteed student loan balances as a result of the transfer of
    $1.7 billion of loans held for sale to loans held for
    investment, and a portfolio purchase during 2008. The increase
    in average commercial loans was

U.S. BANCORP   21 

Table
    2        ANALYSIS
    OF NET INTEREST INCOME 

(a)

Interest
    and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis
    utilizing a federal tax rate of 35 percent.   

(b)

Represents
    noninterest-bearing deposits, other noninterest-bearing
    liabilities and equity, allowance for loan losses, and
    unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities, less
    non-earning assets.   

principally a result of growth in corporate and commercial
    banking balances as new and existing business customers used
    bank credit facilities to fund business growth and liquidity
    requirements. The growth in average commercial real estate
    balances reflected new business growth, primarily in business
    owner-occupied and commercial properties, driven by capital
    market conditions and the acquisition of Mellon
    1st Business Bank. The increase in residential mortgages
    reflected increased origination activity as a result of current
    market interest rate declines. Average covered assets of
    $1.3 billion consisted of loans and foreclosed real estate
    acquired in the Downey and PFF acquisitions. Approximately
    70 percent of the covered assets are single family
    residential mortgages.

Average investment securities were $1.5 billion
    (3.7 percent) higher in 2008, compared with 2007. The
    increase principally reflected the full year impact of holding
    the structured investment securities the Company purchased in
    the fourth quarter of 2007 from certain money market funds
    managed by an affiliate, higher government agency securities,
    maturities and sales of mortgage-backed securities, and realized
    and unrealized losses on certain investment securities recorded
    in 2008.

Average noninterest-bearing deposits in 2008 were
    $1.4 billion (5.0 percent) higher than 2007. The
    increase reflected higher business and other demand deposit
    balances, impacted by customer flight to quality and the Mellon
    1st Business Bank acquisition.

Average total savings products increased $6.6 billion
    (11.6 percent) in 2008, compared with 2007, principally as
    a result of a $5.0 billion (19.2 percent) increase in
    interest checking balances from broker-dealer, institutional
    trust, government and consumer banking customers, and a
    $1.0 billion (3.8 percent) increase in money market
    savings balances driven primarily by higher broker-dealer and
    consumer banking balances.

Average time certificates of deposit less than $100,000 were
    lower in 2008 by $1.1 billion (7.3 percent), compared
    with 2007. The decline in time certificates of deposit less than
    $100,000 was due to the Company s funding and pricing
    decisions and competition for these deposits. Average time
    deposits greater than $100,000 increased by $8.2 billion
    (36.7 percent) in 2008, compared with 2007, as a result of
    the Company s wholesale funding decisions and the ability
    to attract larger customer deposits as a result of the
    Company s relative strength given current market conditions.

The decline in net interest income in 2007, compared with 2006,
    reflected growth in average earning assets, more than offset by
    a lower net interest margin. The $8.5 billion
    (4.5 percent) increase in average earning assets for 2007,
    compared with 2006, was primarily driven by growth in average
    loans and average investment securities. The 18 basis point
    decline in net interest margin in 2007, compared with 2006,
    reflected the competitive business environment in 2007, the
    impact of a flat yield curve during the first half of the year
    and lower net free funds. In addition, funding costs were higher
    because rates paid on interest-bearing deposits increased and
    the funding mix shifted toward higher cost deposits, as
    customers migrated

22     U.S. BANCORP

Table
    3        NET
    INTEREST INCOME   CHANGES DUE TO RATE AND VOLUME
    (a) 

(a)

This
    table shows the components of the change in net interest income
    by volume and rate on a taxable-equivalent basis utilizing a tax
    rate of 35 percent. This table does not take into account
    the level of noninterest-bearing funding, nor does it fully
    reflect changes in the mix of assets and liabilities. The change
    in interest not solely due to changes in volume or rates has
    been allocated on a pro-rata basis to volume and
    yield/rate.   

to higher rate products, and other funding sources. An increase
    in loan fees partially offset these factors.

Average loans in 2007 were higher by $6.7 billion
    (4.8 percent), compared with 2006, driven by growth in
    retail loans, commercial loans and residential mortgages.
    Average investment securities were $1.4 billion
    (3.4 percent) higher in 2007, compared with 2006,
    principally reflecting higher balances in the municipal
    securities portfolio and the purchase in the fourth quarter of
    2007 of securities of certain money market funds managed by an
    affiliate. Average noninterest-bearing deposits in 2007 were
    $1.4 billion (4.8 percent) lower than in 2006. The
    decrease reflected a decline in personal and business demand
    deposits, partially offset by higher trust deposits. Average
    total savings products increased $.9 billion
    (1.7 percent) in 2007, compared with 2006, as increases in
    interest checking balances more than offset declines in money
    market and savings balances. Average interest checking balances
    increased from 2006 to 2007 by $2.6 billion
    (10.9 percent) due to higher broker-dealer, government and
    institutional trust balances. Average money market savings
    account balances declined from 2006 to 2007 by $1.3 billion
    (5.0 percent) as a result of the Company s deposit
    pricing decisions for money market products in relation to other
    fixed-rate deposit products offered. Average time certificates
    of deposit less than $100,000 grew $.9 billion
    (6.5 percent) in 2007 compared with 2006, primarily driven
    by the migration of money market balances to certificates of
    deposit within the Consumer Banking and Wealth
    Management   Securities Services business lines, as
    customers migrated balances to higher rate deposits. Average
    time deposits greater than $100,000 were approximately the same
    in 2007 as in 2006.

Provision for
    Credit Losses    The
    provision for credit losses reflects changes in the credit
    quality of the entire portfolio of loans, considering the credit
    loss protection from the Loss Sharing Agreements with the FDIC,
    and is maintained at a level considered appropriate by
    management for probable and estimable incurred losses, based on
    factors discussed in the  Analysis and Determination of
    Allowance for Credit Losses  section.

In 2008, the provision for credit losses was
    $3,096 million, compared with $792 million and
    $544 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The

U.S. BANCORP   23 

$2,304 million increase in the provision for credit losses
    in 2008 reflected an increase in net charge-offs of
    $1,027 million and $1,277 million provision in excess
    of charge-offs. The increases in the provision and allowance for
    credit losses from 2007 reflected continuing stress in the
    residential real estate markets, including homebuilding and
    related supplier industries, driven by declining home prices in
    most geographic regions. The increases also reflected
    deteriorating economic conditions and the corresponding impact
    on the commercial and consumer loan portfolios. Nonperforming
    loans increased $1,854 million ($1,211 million
    excluding covered assets) over December 31, 2007. The
    increase was driven primarily by weakening real estate values
    and the impact of the economic slowdown on other commercial
    customers, and included increases in commercial real estate
    loans of $781 million, commercial loans of
    $211 million and residential mortgages of
    $156 million. Net charge-offs increased $1,027 million
    from 2007, primarily due to the factors affecting the
    residential housing markets, including the impact on
    homebuilding and related industries, and credit costs associated
    with credit card and other consumer loan growth over the past
    year.

Accruing loans ninety days or more past due increased
    $970 million ($383 million excluding covered assets),
    primarily due to residential mortgages, credit cards and home
    equity loans. Restructured loans that continue to accrue
    interest increased $958 million, reflecting the impact of
    restructurings for residential mortgage and credit card
    customers as a result of current economic conditions. The
    Company expects to restructure a substantial amount of the
    covered assets over the next two years following guidelines
    promulgated by the FDIC, which can include reductions in the
    interest rate, deferral of principal, and extended maturity. The
    economic loss associated with such concessions on covered assets
    is part of the Loss Sharing Agreements.

The $248 million (45.6 percent) increase in the
    provision for credit losses in 2007, compared with 2006,
    reflected growth in credit card accounts, increased loan
    delinquencies and nonperforming loans, and higher commercial and
    consumer credit losses. Nonperforming loans increased
    $87 million (18.5 percent) in 2007, as a result of
    stress in condominium and other residential home construction.
    Accruing loans ninety days or more past due increased
    $235 million (67.3 percent), primarily related to
    residential mortgages, credit cards and home equity loans.
    Restructured loans that continued to accrue interest increased
    $127 million (31.3 percent), reflecting the impact of
    programs for credit card and sub-prime residential mortgage
    customers. Net charge-offs increased $248 million
    (45.6 percent) over 2006, primarily due to an increase in
    consumer charge-offs principally related to growth in credit
    card balances, and somewhat higher commercial loan net
    charge-offs. In addition, net charge-offs were lower during
    2006, reflecting the beneficial impact of bankruptcy legislation
    that went into effect during the fourth quarter of 2005.

Refer to  Corporate Risk Profile  for further
    information on the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs,
    nonperforming assets and other factors considered by the Company
    in assessing the credit quality of the loan portfolio and
    establishing the allowance for credit losses.

Noninterest
    Income    Noninterest
    income in 2008 was $6.8 billion, compared with
    $7.3 billion in 2007 and $7.0 billion in 2006. The
    $485 million (6.6 percent) decrease in 2008 from 2007,
    was driven by impairment charges related to structured
    investment securities, perpetual preferred stock (including the
    stock of GSEs), and certain non-agency mortgage-backed
    securities, as well as higher retail lease residual losses.
    These items were partially offset by $551 million of Visa
    Gains and growth in fee income. Noninterest income for 2008 was
    also reduced by the adoption of Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 157 ( SFAS 157 ),
     Fair Value Measurements , effective January 1,
    2008. Upon adoption of SFAS 157, trading revenue decreased
    $62 million, as principal market and nonperformance risk is
    now required to be considered when determining the fair value of
    customer derivatives. In addition, under SFAS 157 mortgage
    production gains increased, because direct origination costs are
    no longer deferred on mortgage loans held for sale
    ( MLHFS ).

The growth in credit and debit card revenue of 8.5 percent
    was primarily driven by an increase in customer accounts and
    higher customer transaction volumes from a year ago. The
    corporate payment products revenue growth of 5.2 percent
    reflected growth in sales volumes and business expansion. ATM
    processing services revenue increased 11.9 percent over the
    prior year due primarily to growth in transaction volumes,
    including the impact of additional ATMs during 2008. Merchant
    processing services revenue was 3.9 percent higher in 2008,
    compared with 2007, reflecting higher transaction volume and
    business expansion. Treasury management fees increased
    9.5 percent over 2007 due primarily to the favorable impact
    of declining rates on customer compensating balances. Commercial
    products revenue increased 13.6 percent over the prior year
    due to higher foreign exchange revenue, syndication fees, letter
    of credit fees, fees on customer derivatives, and other
    commercial loan fees. Mortgage banking revenue increased
    4.2 percent in 2008, compared with 2007, due to an increase
    in mortgage servicing income and production revenue, partially
    offset by a net decrease in the valuation of mortgage servicing
    rights ( MSRs ) and related economic hedging
    instruments. Other income was 41.4 percent higher

24     U.S. BANCORP

Table
    4        NONINTEREST
    INCOME 

*

Not
    meaningful   

due to the Visa Gains, partially offset by higher retail lease
    residual losses, lower equity investment revenue, market
    valuation losses and the $62 million unfavorable impact to
    trading income from the adoption of SFAS 157.

The $344 million (4.9 percent) increase in 2007
    noninterest income over 2006, was driven by fee-based revenue
    growth in most fee categories, offset somewhat by
    $107 million in valuation losses related to securities
    purchased from certain money market funds managed by an
    affiliate in the fourth quarter of 2007. Additionally, 2006
    included several significant items representing approximately
    $142 million of incremental revenue, including: higher
    trading income related to gains from the termination of certain
    interest rate swaps, equity gains from the initial public
    offering and subsequent sale of the equity interests in a
    cardholder association, a gain on the sale of a 401(k) defined
    contribution recordkeeping business, and a favorable settlement
    in the merchant processing business, offset by lower mortgage
    banking revenue due to adopting fair value accounting standards
    for MSRs. The growth in credit and debit card revenue in 2007
    was primarily driven by an increase in customer accounts and
    higher customer transaction volumes. The corporate payment
    products revenue growth reflected growth in customer sales
    volumes and card usage, and the impact of an acquired business.
    Merchant processing services revenue was higher, reflecting an
    increase in customers and sales volumes on both a domestic and
    global basis. Trust and investment management fees increased
    primarily due to core account growth and favorable equity market
    conditions. Deposit service charges were higher due primarily to
    increased transaction-related fees and the impact of continued
    growth in net new checking accounts. Treasury management fees
    increased due to new product offerings and higher transaction
    volumes. Commercial products revenue increased due to higher
    syndication fees, foreign exchange and commercial leasing
    revenue. Mortgage banking revenue increased due to an increase
    in mortgage originations and servicing income, partially offset
    by an adverse net change in the valuation of MSRs and related
    economic hedging activities given changing interest rates.
    Growth in these fee-based revenue categories was partially
    offset by slightly lower investment products fees and
    commissions and a decline in other income. The reduction of
    other income reflected the valuation losses recognized in 2007,
    related to securities purchased from certain money market funds
    managed by an affiliate and the 2006 asset gains previously
    discussed.

Noninterest
    Expense    Noninterest
    expense in 2008 was $7.4 billion, compared with
    $7.0 billion in 2007 and $6.3 billion in 2006. The
    Company s efficiency ratio was 47.4 percent in 2008,
    compared with 49.7 percent in 2007. The $428 million
    (6.1 percent) increase in noninterest expense in 2008,
    compared with 2007, was principally due to investments in
    business initiatives including acquisitions, higher credit
    collection costs, and incremental expenses associated with
    investments in tax-advantaged projects, partially offset by the
    $330 million Visa Charge recognized in 2007.

Compensation expense was 15.1 percent higher in 2008 due to
    growth in ongoing bank operations, acquired businesses and other
    bank initiatives to increase the Company s banking presence
    and enhance customer relationship management. The increase in
    compensation expense was also due to the adoption of an
    accounting standard in the first quarter of 2008, under which
    compensation expense is no longer deferred for MLHFS. Employee
    benefits expense increased 4.3 percent year-over-year as
    higher payroll taxes and medical costs were partially offset by
    lower pension costs, due to the utilization of a higher discount
    rate and amortization of unrecognized actuarial gains from prior
    years. Net occupancy and

U.S. BANCORP   25 

Table
    5        NONINTEREST
    EXPENSE 

equipment expense increased 5.8 percent primarily due to
    acquisitions and branch-based and other business expansion
    initiatives. Marketing and business development expense
    increased 19.2 percent over the prior year due to costs
    incurred in 2008 for a national advertising campaign, as well as
    a $25 million charitable contribution made to the
    Company s foundation. Technology and communications expense
    increased 6.6 percent due to higher processing volumes and
    business expansion. Other intangibles expense decreased
    5.6 percent from the prior year reflecting the timing and
    relative size of recent acquisitions. Other expense decreased
    8.5 percent from the prior year, primarily due to the
    $330 million Visa Charge recognized in 2007, partially
    offset by increases in 2008 in credit-related costs for other
    real estate owned and loan collection activities and investments
    in tax-advantaged projects.

The $700 million (11.1 percent) increase in
    noninterest expense in 2007, compared with 2006, was principally
    due to the $330 million Visa Charge recognized in 2007, as
    well as higher credit costs, incremental growth in
    tax-advantaged projects and specific investment in
    revenue-enhancing business initiatives. Compensation expense was
    higher primarily due to investment in personnel within the
    branch distribution network, enhancing relationship management
    processes and supporting organic business growth and acquired
    businesses. Employee benefits expense increased as higher
    medical costs were partially offset by lower pension costs. Net
    occupancy and equipment expense increased primarily due to bank
    acquisitions and investments in branches. Professional services
    expense was higher due to revenue enhancing business
    initiatives, higher litigation-related costs, and higher legal
    fees associated with the establishment of a bank charter in
    Ireland to support pan-European payment processing. Marketing
    and business development expense increased due to higher
    customer promotion, solicitation and advertising activities.
    Postage, printing and supplies increased due to increasing
    customer promotional mailings and changes in postal rates. Other
    intangibles expense increased due to acquisitions. Other expense
    increased primarily due to the $330 million Visa Charge.
    These increases were partially offset by $33 million of
    debt prepayment charges recorded during 2006.

Pension Plans
         Because of the
    long-term nature of pension plans, the related accounting is
    complex and can be impacted by several factors, including
    investment funding policies, accounting methods, and actuarial
    assumptions.

The Company s pension accounting reflects the long-term
    nature of the benefit obligations and the investment horizon of
    plan assets. Amounts recorded in the financial statements
    reflect actuarial assumptions about participant benefits and
    plan asset returns. Changes in actuarial assumptions, and
    differences in actual plan experience compared with actuarial
    assumptions, are deferred and recognized in expense in future
    periods. Differences related to participant benefits are
    recognized over the future service period of the employees.
    Differences related to the expected return on plan assets are
    included in expense over a twelve-year period.

At December 31, 2008, the Company had an $888 million
    cumulative difference between actuarially-assumed returns on
    plan assets and actual experience. If the performance of plan
    assets equals the actuarially-assumed long-term rate of return
    ( LTROR ), this difference will increase pension
    expense incrementally $35 million in 2009, $37 million
    in 2010, $46 million in 2011, $49 million in 2012, and
    $61 million in 2013. In addition to the asset return
    differences, the Company expects pension expense will increase
    an additional $7 million in 2009 related to other actuarial
    gains and losses. Because of the complexity of forecasting
    pension plan activities, the accounting methods utilized for
    pension plans, the Company s ability to respond to factors
    affecting the plans and the hypothetical nature of actuarial
    assumptions, actual pension expense will differ from these
    amounts.

Refer to Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further information on the

26     U.S. BANCORP

Company s pension plan funding practices, investment
    policies and asset allocation strategies, and accounting
    policies for pension plans.

The following table shows an analysis of hypothetical changes in
    the LTROR and discount rate:

Income Tax
    Expense    The provision
    for income taxes was $1,087 million (an effective rate of
    27.0 percent) in 2008, compared with $1,883 million
    (an effective rate of 30.3 percent) in 2007 and
    $2,112 million (an effective rate of 30.8 percent) in
    2006. The decrease in the effective tax rate from 2007 reflected
    the marginal impact of lower pre-tax income and the relative
    amount of tax-exempt income from investment securities and
    insurance products, and incremental tax credits from affordable
    housing and other tax-advantaged investments.

Included in 2006 was a reduction of income tax expense of
    $61 million related to the resolution of federal income tax
    examinations covering substantially all of the Company s
    legal entities for all years through 2004 and $22 million
    related to certain state examinations.

For further information on income taxes, refer to Note 19
    of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

BALANCE SHEET
    ANALYSIS

Average earning assets were $215.0 billion in 2008,
    compared with $194.7 billion in 2007. The increase in
    average earning assets of $20.3 billion (10.5 percent)
    was due to growth in total average loans of $18.2 billion
    (12.4 percent), investment securities of $1.5 billion
    (3.7 percent) and other earning assets of $1.0 billion
    (58.4 percent), partially offset by lower loans
    held-for-sale. The change in total average earning assets was
    principally funded by increases of $13.7 billion in
    interest-bearing deposits and $4.0 billion in wholesale
    funding.

For average balance information, refer to Consolidated Daily
    Average Balance Sheet and Related Yields and Rates on
    pages 118 and 119.

Table
    6        LOAN
    PORTFOLIO DISTRIBUTION 

U.S. BANCORP   27 

Loans
       The Company s loan
    portfolio was $185.2 billion at December 31, 2008, an
    increase of $31.4 billion (20.4 percent) from
    December 31, 2007. The increase was driven by growth in all
    major loan categories, including retail loans
    (18.9 percent), commercial loans (10.9 percent),
    commercial real estate loans (13.7 percent) and residential
    mortgages (3.5 percent). The increase was also due to the
    addition of $11.5 billion of covered assets, related to the
    Downey and PFF acquisitions in the fourth quarter of 2008. Table
    6 provides a summary of the loan distribution by product type,
    while Table 10 provides a summary of selected loan maturity
    distribution by loan category. Average total loans increased
    $18.2 billion (12.4 percent) in 2008, compared with
    2007. The increase was due to growth in all major loan
    categories.

Commercial
       Commercial loans,
    including lease financing, increased $5.5 billion
    (10.9 percent) as of December 31, 2008, compared with
    December 31, 2007. The growth in commercial loans was
    primarily driven by new and existing customers utilizing bank
    credit facilities to fund business growth and liquidity
    requirements, as well as growth in commercial leasing balances.
    Average commercial loans increased $6.5 billion
    (13.6 percent) in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due
    to an increase in commercial loan demand driven by general
    economic conditions in 2008. Table 7 provides a summary of
    commercial loans by industry and geographical locations.

Commercial Real
    Estate    The
    Company s portfolio of commercial real estate loans, which
    includes commercial mortgages and construction loans, increased
    $4.0 billion (13.7 percent) at December 31, 2008,
    compared with December 31, 2007. The growth in commercial
    real estate loans reflected changing market conditions that have
    limited borrower access to the capital markets, and loans
    acquired in 2008 business combinations. Table 8 provides a
    summary of commercial real estate by property type and
    geographical locations. The collateral for $.8 billion of
    commercial real estate loans included in covered assets at
    December 31, 2008  was in California.

Table 7        COMMERCIAL
    LOANS BY INDUSTRY GROUP AND GEOGRAPHY, EXCLUDING COVERED
    ASSETS 

28     U.S. BANCORP

The Company classifies loans as construction until the
    completion of the construction phase. Following construction, if
    a loan is retained, the loan is reclassified to the commercial
    mortgage category. In 2008, approximately $327 million of
    construction loans were reclassified to the commercial mortgage
    loan category for permanent financing after completion of the
    construction phase. At December 31, 2008, $200 million
    of tax-exempt industrial development loans were secured by real
    estate. The Company s commercial real estate mortgages and
    construction loans had unfunded commitments of $8.0 billion
    and $8.9 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. The Company also finances the operations of real
    estate developers and other entities with operations related to
    real estate. These loans are not secured directly by real estate
    and are subject to terms and conditions similar to commercial
    loans. These loans were included in the commercial loan category
    and totaled $2.2 billion at December 31, 2008.

Residential
    Mortgages    Residential
    mortgages held in the loan portfolio at December 31, 2008,
    increased $.8 billion (3.5 percent) from
    December 31, 2007. The growth was principally the result of
    an increase in mortgage banking activity and higher consumer
    finance originations. Most loans retained in the portfolio are
    to customers with prime or near-prime credit characteristics at
    the date of origination.

Retail
       Total retail loans
    outstanding, which include credit card, retail leasing, home
    equity and second mortgages and other retail loans, increased
    $9.6 billion (18.9 percent) at December 31, 2008,
    compared with December 31, 2007. Average retail loans
    increased $6.7 billion (13.7 percent) in 2008,
    compared with 2007. The increases included higher student loans
    of $4.2 billion due to the purchase of a portfolio during
    2008 and the reclassification of federally guaranteed student
    loans held for sale into the held for investment portfolio as a
    result of a change in business strategy. The increases also
    reflected growth in home equity, credit card and installment
    loans. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in
    retail leasing balances.

Of the total retail loans and residential mortgages outstanding,
    approximately 79.3 percent were to customers

Table
    8        COMMERCIAL
    REAL ESTATE BY PROPERTY TYPE AND GEOGRAPHY, 
    EXCLUDING COVERED ASSETS 

U.S. BANCORP   29 

located in the Company s primary banking region.
    Table 9 provides a geographic summary of residential
    mortgages and retail loans outstanding as of December 31,
    2008 and 2007. The collateral for $7.1 billion of
    residential mortgages and retail loans included in covered
    assets at December 31, 2008 was in California.

Loans Held for
    Sale    Loans held for
    sale, consisting primarily of residential mortgages and student
    loans to be sold in the secondary market, were $3.2 billion
    at December 31, 2008, compared with $4.8 billion at
    December 31, 2007. The decrease in loans held for sale was
    principally a result of a change in business strategy to
    discontinue selling federally guaranteed student loans in the
    secondary market, and instead, hold them in the loan portfolio.

Investment
    Securities    The Company
    uses its investment securities portfolio for several purposes.
    It serves as a vehicle to manage enterprise interest rate risk,
    generates interest and dividend income from the investment of
    excess funds depending on loan demand, provides liquidity and is
    used as collateral for public deposits and wholesale funding
    sources. While it is the Company s intent to hold its
    investment securities indefinitely, the Company may take actions
    in response to structural changes in the balance sheet and
    related interest rate risk and to meet liquidity requirements,
    among other factors.

At December 31, 2008, investment securities totaled
    $39.5 billion, compared with $43.1 billion at
    December 31, 2007. The $3.6 billion (8.3 percent)
    decrease reflected securities purchases of $6.1 billion,
    more than offset by sales, maturities, prepayments, securities
    impairments and unrealized losses on the available-for-sale
    portfolio.

At December 31, 2008, adjustable-rate financial instruments
    comprised 40 percent of the investment securities
    portfolio, compared with 39 percent at

Table
    9        RESIDENTIAL
    MORTGAGES AND RETAIL LOANS BY GEOGRAPHY, 
    EXCLUDING COVERED ASSETS 

30     U.S. BANCORP

Table
    10        SELECTED
    LOAN MATURITY DISTRIBUTION 

December 31, 2007. Average investment securities were
    $1.5 billion (3.7 percent) higher in 2008, compared
    with 2007. The increase principally reflected the full year
    impact of holding the structured investment securities the
    Company purchased in the fourth quarter of 2007 from certain
    money market funds managed by an affiliate and higher government
    agency securities, partially offset by sales, maturities and
    prepayments, as well as realized and unrealized losses on
    investment securities. The weighted-average yield of the
    available-for-sale portfolio was 4.55 percent at
    December 31, 2008, compared with 5.51 percent at
    December 31, 2007. The average maturity of the
    available-for-sale portfolio increased to 7.7 years at
    December 31, 2008, from 7.4 years at December 31,
    2007. Investment securities by type are shown in Table 11.

The Company conducts a regular assessment of its investment
    portfolios to determine whether any securities are
    other-than-temporarily impaired. At December 31, 2008, the
    available-for-sale securities portfolio included a
    $2.8 billion net unrealized loss, compared with a net
    unrealized loss of $1.1 billion at December 31, 2007.
    When assessing impairment, the Company considers the nature of
    the investment, the financial condition of the issuer, the
    extent and duration of unrealized loss, expected cash flows of
    underlying collateral or assets, market conditions, and the
    Company s ability and intent to hold securities until
    recovery. The Company intends to hold available-for-sale
    securities with unrealized losses until recovery. The majority
    of securities with unrealized losses were either obligations of
    state and political subdivisions or non-agency securities with
    high investment grade credit ratings and limited credit
    exposure. Some securities classified within obligations of state
    and political subdivisions are supported by mono-line insurers.
    Because mono-line insurers have experienced credit rating
    downgrades, management continuously monitors the underlying
    credit quality of the issuers and the support of the mono-line
    insurers. As of December 31, 2008, approximately
    6 percent of the available-for-sale securities portfolio
    represented perpetual preferred securities and trust preferred
    securities, primarily issued by the financial services sector,
    or structured investment securities. The unrealized losses for
    these securities were approximately $941 million at
    December 31, 2008.

There is limited market activity for the structured investment
    securities and certain non-agency securities held by the
    Company, so the Company s valuation is determined using
    estimates of expected cash flows, discount rates and
    management s assessment of various market factors, which
    are judgmental in nature. As a result of the valuation of these
    securities and impairment assessment, in 2008 the Company
    recorded $232 million of other-than-temporary impairment on
    certain investment securities, including certain non-agency
    mortgage-backed securities, GSE preferred stock and perpetual
    preferred stock of failed institutions. The Company also
    recorded $788 million of impairment charges on structured
    investment and related securities during 2008. These impairment
    charges were a result of wider market spreads for these types of
    securities due to market illiquidity, as well as changes in
    expected cash flows resulting from the continuing decline in
    housing prices and an increase in foreclosure activity. Further
    adverse changes in market conditions may result in additional
    impairment charges in future periods. The Company expects
    approximately $501 million of principal payments will not
    be received for the structured investment-related and non-agency
    securities it has impaired. During 2008, the Company exchanged
    its interest in certain structured investment securities and
    received its pro rata share of the underlying investment
    securities as an in-kind distribution according to the
    applicable restructuring agreements.

Refer to Note 5 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further information on investment securities.

U.S. BANCORP   31 

Table 11        INVESTMENT
    SECURITIES 

(a)

Information
    related to asset and mortgage-backed securities included above
    is presented based upon weighted-average maturities anticipating
    future prepayments.   

(b)

Information
    related to obligations of state and political subdivisions is
    presented based upon yield to first optional call date if the
    security is purchased at a premium, yield to maturity if
    purchased at par or a discount.   

(c)

The
    weighted-average maturity of the available-for-sale investment
    securities was 7.4 years at December 31, 2007, with a
    corresponding weighted-average yield of 5.51 percent. The
    weighted-average maturity of the held-to-maturity investment
    securities was 8.3 years at December 31, 2007, with a
    corresponding weighted-average yield of
    5.92 percent.   

(d)

Average
    yields are presented on a fully-taxable equivalent basis under a
    tax rate of 35 percent. Yields on available-for-sale and
    held-to-maturity securities are computed based on historical
    cost balances. Average yield and maturity calculations exclude
    equity securities that have no stated yield or
    maturity.   

(e)

Primarily
    includes investments in structured investment vehicles with
    underlying collateral that includes a mix of various mortgage
    and other asset-backed securities.   

Deposits
       Total deposits were
    $159.3 billion at December 31, 2008, compared with
    $131.4 billion at December 31, 2007. The
    $27.9 billion (21.2 percent) increase in total
    deposits consisted of increases in all major deposit categories.
    The Company assumed $13.5 billion of deposits in the 2008
    acquisitions. Average total deposits increased
    $15.1 billion

32     U.S. BANCORP

(12.5 percent) from 2007, reflecting an increase in average
    time deposits greater than $100,000, interest checking,
    noninterest-bearing deposits and money market savings accounts,
    partially offset by a decrease in average time certificates of
    deposit less than $100,000.

Noninterest-bearing deposits at December 31, 2008,
    increased $4.2 billion (12.5 percent) from
    December 31, 2007. The increase was primarily attributed to
    higher business demand, personal demand and other demand
    deposits. The increase in business demand deposits reflected
    higher broker-dealer balances due to customer flight to quality
    and the impact of the Mellon 1st Business Bank acquisition
    in the current year. The increase in personal demand deposits
    was primarily due to acquisitions in the current year. Average
    noninterest-bearing deposits in 2008 increased $1.4 billion
    (5.0 percent), compared with 2007, due primarily to higher
    business demand and other demand deposits.

Interest-bearing savings deposits increased $9.2 billion
    (15.7 percent) at December 31, 2008, compared with
    December 31, 2007. The increase in these deposit balances
    was primarily related to higher savings, interest checking and
    money market savings balances. The $4.1 billion
    (81.4 percent) increase in savings account balances
    reflected higher personal interest savings balances, as a result
    of strong participation in a new savings product, and the impact
    of the Downey and PFF acquisitions during the fourth quarter of
    2008.  The $3.3 billion (11.2 percent) increase in interest
    checking account balances was due to higher broker-dealer,
    government, consumer banking and institutional trust balances.
    The $1.8 billion (7.6 percent) increase in money market
    savings account balances reflected higher broker-dealer balances
    and the impact of acquisitions, partially offset by lower
    branch-based and government balances. Average interest-bearing
    savings deposits in 2008 increased $6.6 billion
    (11.6 percent), compared with 2007, primarily driven by
    higher interest checking account balances of $5.0 billion
    (19.2 percent) and money market savings account balances of
    $1.0 billion (3.8 percent).

Interest-bearing time deposits at December 31, 2008,
    increased $14.6 billion (36.6 percent), compared with
    December 31, 2007, driven by an increase in time

Table 12        DEPOSITS 

The composition of deposits was as follows:

The maturity of time deposits was as follows:

U.S. BANCORP   33 

certificates of deposit less than $100,000 and time deposits
    greater than $100,000. Time certificates of deposit less than
    $100,000 increased $4.3 billion (30.1 percent) at
    December 31, 2008, compared with December 31, 2007,
    due primarily to the Downey and PFF acquisitions late in 2008,
    partially offset by a decrease within Consumer Banking. The
    decrease within Consumer Banking reflected the Company s
    funding and pricing decisions and competition for these deposits
    by other financial institutions. Time deposits greater than
    $100,000 increased $10.3 billion (40.2 percent),
    compared with December 31, 2007, as a result of the
    Company s wholesale funding decisions and the business
    lines  ability to attract larger customer deposits, as a
    result of the Company s relative strength given current
    market conditions. Average time certificates of deposit less
    than $100,000 decreased $1.1 billion (7.3 percent) and
    average time deposits greater than $100,000 increased
    $8.2 billion (36.7 percent), compared with 2007. Time
    deposits greater than $100,000 are managed as an alternative to
    other funding sources, such as wholesale borrowing, based
    largely on relative pricing.

Borrowings
       The Company utilizes
    both short-term and long-term borrowings to fund growth of
    assets in excess of deposit growth. Short-term borrowings, which
    include federal funds purchased, commercial paper, repurchase
    agreements, borrowings secured by high-grade assets and other
    short-term borrowings, were $34.0 billion at
    December 31, 2008, compared with $32.4 billion at
    December 31, 2007. Short-term funding is managed within
    approved liquidity policies. The increase of $1.6 billion
    (5.0 percent) in short-term borrowings reflected wholesale
    funding associated with the Company s asset growth and
    asset/liability management activities.

Long-term debt was $38.4 billion at December 31, 2008,
    compared with $43.4 billion at December 31, 2007,
    primarily reflecting repayments of $3.3 billion of
    convertible senior debentures, and maturities of
    $7.2 billion of medium-term notes and $.7 billion of
    subordinated debt, partially offset by the issuance of
    $7.0 billion of medium-term notes during 2008. Refer to
    Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    for additional information regarding long-term debt and the
     Liquidity Risk Management  section for discussion of
    liquidity management of the Company.

CORPORATE RISK
    PROFILE

Overview
       Managing risks is an
    essential part of successfully operating a financial services
    company. The most prominent risk exposures are credit, residual
    value, operational, interest rate, market and liquidity risk.
    Credit risk is the risk of not collecting the interest
     and/or  the
    principal balance of a loan or investment when it is due.
    Residual value risk is the potential reduction in the
    end-of-term value of leased assets. Operational risk includes
    risks related to fraud, legal and compliance risk, processing
    errors, technology, breaches of internal controls and business
    continuation and disaster recovery risk. Interest rate risk is
    the potential reduction of net interest income as a result of
    changes in interest rates, which can affect the repricing of
    assets and liabilities differently, as well as their market
    value. Market risk arises from fluctuations in interest rates,
    foreign exchange rates, and security prices that may result in
    changes in the values of financial instruments, such as trading
    and available-for-sale securities that are accounted for on a
    mark-to-market basis. Liquidity risk is the possible inability
    to fund obligations to depositors, investors or borrowers. In
    addition, corporate strategic decisions, as well as the risks
    described above, could give rise to reputation risk. Reputation
    risk is the risk that negative publicity or press, whether true
    or not, could result in costly litigation or cause a decline in
    the Company s stock value, customer base, funding sources
    or revenue.

Credit Risk
    Management    The
    Company s strategy for credit risk management includes
    well-defined, centralized credit policies, uniform underwriting
    criteria, and ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for
    all commercial and consumer credit exposures. The strategy also
    emphasizes diversification on a geographic, industry and
    customer level, regular credit examinations and management
    reviews of loans exhibiting deterioration of credit quality. The
    credit risk management strategy also includes a credit risk
    assessment process, independent of business line managers, that
    performs assessments of compliance with commercial and consumer
    credit policies, risk ratings, and other critical credit
    information. The Company strives to identify potential problem
    loans early, record any necessary charge-offs promptly and
    maintain appropriate reserve levels for probable incurred loan
    losses. Commercial banking operations rely on prudent credit
    policies and procedures and individual lender and business line
    manager accountability. Lenders are assigned lending authority
    based on their level of experience and customer service
    requirements. Credit officers reporting to an independent credit
    administration function have higher levels of lending authority
    and support the business units in their credit decision process.
    Loan decisions are documented as to the borrower s
    business, purpose of the loan, evaluation of the repayment
    source and the associated risks, evaluation of collateral,
    covenants and monitoring requirements, and risk rating
    rationale. The Company utilizes a credit risk rating system to
    measure the credit quality of individual commercial loans,
    including the probability of default of an obligor and the loss
    given default of credit facilities. The

34     U.S. BANCORP

Company uses the risk rating system for regulatory reporting,
    determining the frequency of review of the credit exposures, and
    evaluation and determination of the specific allowance for
    commercial credit losses. The Company regularly forecasts
    potential changes in risk ratings, nonperforming status and
    potential for loss and the estimated impact on the allowance for
    credit losses. In the Company s retail banking operations,
    standard credit scoring systems are used to assess credit risks
    of consumer, small business and small-ticket leasing customers
    and to price products accordingly. The Company conducts the
    underwriting and collections of its retail products in loan
    underwriting and servicing centers specializing in certain
    retail products. Forecasts of delinquency levels, bankruptcies
    and losses in conjunction with projection of estimated losses by
    delinquency categories and vintage information are regularly
    prepared and are used to evaluate underwriting and collection
    and determine the specific allowance for credit losses for these
    products. Because business processes and credit risks associated
    with unfunded credit commitments are essentially the same as for
    loans, the Company utilizes similar processes to estimate its
    liability for unfunded credit commitments. The Company also
    engages in non-lending activities that may give rise to credit
    risk, including interest rate swap and option contracts for
    balance sheet hedging purposes, foreign exchange transactions,
    deposit overdrafts and interest rate swap contracts for
    customers, and settlement risk, including Automated Clearing
    House transactions, and the processing of credit card
    transactions for merchants. These activities are also subject to
    credit review, analysis and approval processes.

Economic and
    Other Factors     In
    evaluating its credit risk, the Company considers changes, if
    any, in underwriting activities, the loan portfolio composition
    (including product mix and geographic, industry or
    customer-specific concentrations), trends in loan performance,
    the level of allowance coverage relative to similar banking
    institutions and macroeconomic factors.

During 2006 and through mid-2007, economic conditions were
    strong, with relatively low unemployment, expanding retail
    sales, and favorable trends related to corporate profits and
    consumer spending for retail goods and services.

Since mid-2007, corporate profit levels have weakened,
    unemployment rates have risen, vehicle and retail sales have
    declined and credit quality indicators have deteriorated
    substantially. In addition, the mortgage lending and
    homebuilding industries experienced significant stress.
    Residential home inventory levels approximated a 12.9 month
    supply at the end of 2008, up from 4.5 months in the third
    quarter of 2005. Median home prices, which peaked in mid-2006,
    have declined across most domestic markets with severe price
    reductions in California and some parts of the Southwest,
    Northeast and Southeast regions.

The decline in residential home values have had a significant
    adverse impact on residential mortgage loans. Residential
    mortgage delinquencies, which increased dramatically in 2007 for
    sub-prime borrowers have begun to increase in 2008 for other
    classes of borrowers. Securitization markets have experienced
    significant liquidity disruptions as investor confidence in the
    credit quality of asset-backed securitization programs has
    declined. Since the fourth quarter of 2007, certain asset-backed
    commercial paper programs and other structured investment
    vehicles have been unable to remarket their commercial paper
    creating further deterioration in the capital markets. In
    response to these economic factors, the Federal Reserve Bank has
    dramatically decreased the target Federal Funds interest rate to
    unprecedented levels.

The unfavorable conditions that have affected the economy and
    capital markets since mid-2007, intensified in 2008, as did a
    global economic slowdown, resulting in sharp declines in most
    equity markets that are expected to continue into 2009. This led
    to an overall decrease in confidence in the markets, resulting
    in liquidity pressures on the short-term funding markets that
    has placed additional stress on global banking systems and
    economies. In response to these circumstances, the United States
    government, particularly the United States Treasury Department
    and the FDIC, working in cooperation with the Federal Reserve
    Bank, foreign governments and other central banks, have taken a
    variety of measures to restore confidence in the financial
    markets and to strengthen financial institutions, including
    capital injections, guarantees of bank liabilities and the
    acquisition of illiquid assets from banks.

Currently, there is heightened concern that the domestic and
    global economic environments will weaken further, capital
    markets will remain under stress and domestic housing prices
    will continue to decline. These factors have affected, and may
    continue to adversely impact the Company s credit costs,
    overall business volumes and earnings. As a result of the impact
    of these factors on the Company s loan portfolio, the
    Company recorded provision for credit losses in excess of
    charge-offs during 2008 of $1,277 million.

In addition to economic factors, changes in regulations and
    legislation can have an impact on the credit performance of the
    loan portfolios. Beginning in 2005, the Company implemented
    higher minimum balance payment requirements for its credit card
    customers in response to industry guidance issued by the banking
    regulatory agencies. This industry guidance was provided to
    minimize the likelihood that minimum balance payments would not
    be

U.S. BANCORP   35 

sufficient to cover interest, fees and a portion of the
    principal balance of a credit card loan resulting in negative
    amortization, or increasing account balances. Also, new
    bankruptcy legislation was enacted in October 2005, making it
    more difficult for borrowers to have their debts forgiven during
    bankruptcy proceedings. In response to increased mortgage
    defaults, regulators and legislators have encouraged mortgage
    servicers to implement restructuring programs to enable
    borrowers to continue loan payments.

Credit
    Diversification     The
    Company manages its credit risk, in part, through
    diversification of its loan portfolio. As part of its normal
    business activities, the Company offers a broad array of
    traditional commercial lending products and specialized products
    such as asset-based lending, commercial lease financing,
    agricultural credit, warehouse mortgage lending, commercial real
    estate, health care and correspondent banking. The Company also
    offers an array of retail lending products including credit
    cards, retail leases, home equity, revolving credit, lending to
    students and other consumer loans. These retail credit products
    are primarily offered through the branch office network, home
    mortgage and loan production offices, indirect distribution
    channels, such as automobile dealers, and a consumer finance
    division. The Company monitors and manages the portfolio
    diversification by industry, customer and geography.
    Table 6 provides information with respect to the overall
    product diversification and changes in the mix during 2008.

The commercial portfolio reflects the Company s focus on
    serving small business customers, middle market and larger
    corporate businesses throughout its 24-state banking region, as
    well as large national customers. The commercial loan portfolio
    is diversified among various industries with somewhat higher
    concentrations in consumer products and services, financial
    services, commercial services and supplies, capital goods
    (including manufacturing and commercial construction-related
    businesses), property management and development and
    agricultural industries. Additionally, the commercial portfolio
    is diversified across the Company s geographical markets
    with 71.8 percent of total commercial loans within the
    24-state banking region. Credit relationships outside of the
    Company s banking region are reflected within the corporate
    banking, mortgage banking, auto dealer and leasing businesses
    focusing on large national customers and specifically targeted
    industries. Loans to mortgage banking customers are primarily
    warehouse lines which are collateralized with the underlying
    mortgages. The Company regularly monitors its mortgage
    collateral position to manage its risk exposure. Table 7
    provides a summary of significant industry groups and geographic
    locations of commercial loans outstanding at December 31,
    2008 and 2007.

The commercial real estate portfolio reflects the Company s
    focus on serving business owners within its geographic footprint
    as well as regional and national investment-based real estate
    owners and builders. At December 31, 2008, the Company had
    commercial real estate loans of $33.2 billion, or
    17.9 percent of total loans, compared with
    $29.2 billion at December 31, 2007. Within commercial
    real estate loans, different property types have varying degrees
    of credit risk. Table 8 provides a summary of the
    significant property types and geographical locations of
    commercial real estate loans outstanding at December 31,
    2008 and 2007. At December 31, 2008, approximately
    33.9 percent of the commercial real estate loan portfolio
    represented business owner-occupied properties that tend to
    exhibit credit risk characteristics similar to the middle market
    commercial loan portfolio. Generally, the investment-based real
    estate mortgages are diversified among various property types
    with somewhat higher concentrations in office and retail
    properties. During 2008, the Company continued to reduce its
    level of exposure to homebuilders, given the stress in the
    homebuilding industry sector. From a geographical perspective,
    the Company s commercial real estate portfolio is generally
    well diversified. However, at December 31, 2008, the
    Company had 21.0 percent of its commercial real estate
    portfolio within California, which has experienced higher
    delinquency levels and credit quality deterioration due to
    excess home inventory levels and declining valuations. During
    2008, the Company recorded $172 million of net charge-offs
    in this portfolio, and credit losses are likely to continue.
    Included in commercial real estate at year-end 2008 was
    approximately $1.1 billion in loans related to land held
    for development and $2.5 billion of loans related to
    residential and commercial acquisition and development
    properties. These loans are subject to quarterly monitoring for
    changes in local market conditions due to a higher credit risk
    profile. The commercial real estate portfolio is diversified
    across the Company s geographical markets with
    88.3 percent of total commercial real estate loans
    outstanding at December 31, 2008, within the 24-state
    banking region.

The assets acquired from Downey and PFF included nonperforming
    loans and other loans with characteristics indicative of a high
    credit risk profile, including a substantial concentration in
    California, loans with negative-amortization payment options,
    and homebuilder and other construction finance loans. Because
    most of these loans are covered under Loss Sharing Agreements,
    the Company s financial exposure to losses from these
    assets is substantially limited. To the extent actual losses
    exceed the Company s estimates at acquisition, the
    Company s financial risk would only be its share of those
    losses under the Loss Sharing Agreements (in

36     U.S. BANCORP

general, 5 percent of losses in excess of those estimated
    at acquisition).

The Company s retail lending business utilizes several
    distinct business processes and channels to originate retail
    credit, including traditional branch lending, indirect lending,
    portfolio acquisitions and a consumer finance division. Each
    distinct underwriting and origination activity manages unique
    credit risk characteristics and prices its loan production
    commensurate with the differing risk profiles. Within Consumer
    Banking, the consumer finance division specializes in serving
    channel-specific and alternative lending markets in residential
    mortgages, home equity and installment loan financing. The
    consumer finance division manages loans originated through a
    broker network, correspondent relationships and U.S. Bank
    branch offices. Generally, loans managed by the Company s
    consumer finance division exhibit higher credit risk
    characteristics, but are priced commensurate with the differing
    risk profile.

Residential mortgages represent an important financial product
    for consumer customers of the Company and are originated through
    the Company s branches, loan production offices, a
    wholesale network of originators and the consumer finance
    division. With respect to residential mortgages originated
    through these channels, the Company may either retain the loans
    on its balance sheet or sell its interest in the balances into
    the secondary market while retaining the servicing rights and
    customer relationships. Utilizing the secondary markets enables
    the Company to effectively reduce its credit and other
    asset/liability risks. For residential mortgages that are
    retained in the Company s portfolio and for home equity and
    second mortgages, credit risk is also managed by diversifying
    geography and monitoring loan-to-values during the underwriting
    process.

The following tables provide summary information of the
    loan-to-values of residential mortgages and home equity and
    second mortgages by distribution channel and type at
    December 31, 2008 (excluding covered assets):

Note:
    loan-to-values determined as of the date of origination and
    consider mortgage  insurance, as applicable.  

(a)

Consumer
    finance category included credit originated and managed by the
    consumer finance division, as well as the majority of home
    equity and second mortgages with a loan-to-value greater than
    100 percent that were originated in the branches.   

Note:
    Loan-to-values determined at current amortized loan balance, or
    maximum of current  commitment or current balance on
    lines.  

Within the consumer finance division, at December 31, 2008
    approximately $2.9 billion of residential mortgages were to
    customers that may be defined as sub-prime borrowers based on
    credit scores from independent credit rating agencies at loan
    origination.

U.S. BANCORP   37 

The following table provides further information on residential
    mortgages for the consumer finance division:

In addition to residential mortgages, at December 31, 2008,
    the consumer finance division had $.7 billion of home
    equity and second mortgage loans and lines to customers that may
    be defined as sub-prime borrowers.

The following table provides further information on home equity
    and second mortgages for the consumer finance division:

Table 13        DELINQUENT
    LOAN RATIOS AS A PERCENT OF ENDING LOAN BALANCES 

(a)

Delinquent
    loan ratios exclude advances made pursuant to servicing
    agreements to Government National Mortgage Association
    ( GNMA ) mortgage pools whose repayments are insured
    by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the
    Department of Veterans Affairs. Including the guaranteed
    amounts, the ratio of residential mortgages 90 days or more
    past due including nonperforming loans was 6.95 percent,
    3.78 percent, 3.08 percent, 4.35 percent and
    5.19 percent at December 31, 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005
    and 2004, respectively.   

(b)

Beginning
    in 2008, delinquent loan ratios exclude student loans that are
    guaranteed by the federal government. Including the guaranteed
    amounts, the ratio of retail loans 90 days or more past due
    including nonperforming loans was 1.10 percent at
    December 31, 2008.   

38     U.S. BANCORP

Including residential mortgages, and home equity and second
    mortgage loans, the total amount of loans, other than covered
    assets, to customers that may be defined as sub-prime borrowers
    represented only 1.4 percent of total assets of the Company
    at December 31, 2008, compared with 1.7 percent at
    December 31, 2007. Covered assets include $3.3 billion
    in loans with negative-amortization payment options. Other than
    covered assets, the Company does not have any residential
    mortgages with payment schedules that would cause balances to
    increase over time.

The retail loan portfolio principally reflects the
    Company s focus on consumers within its footprint of
    branches and certain niche lending activities that are
    nationally focused. Within the Company s retail loan
    portfolio approximately 72.0 percent of the credit card
    balances relate to cards originated through the bank branches or
    co-branded and affinity programs that generally experience
    better credit quality performance than portfolios generated
    through other channels.

Table 9 provides a geographical summary of the residential
    mortgage and retail loan portfolios.

Loan
    Delinquencies     Trends
    in delinquency ratios represent an indicator, among other
    considerations, of credit risk within the Company s loan
    portfolios. The entire balance of an account is considered
    delinquent if the minimum payment contractually required to be
    made is not received by the specified date on the billing
    statement. The Company measures delinquencies, both including
    and excluding nonperforming loans, to enable comparability with
    other companies. Advances made pursuant to servicing agreements
    to Government National Mortgage Association ( GNMA )
    mortgage pools, for which repayments of principal and interest
    are substantially insured by the Federal Housing Administration
    or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs, are
    excluded from delinquency statistics. In addition, under certain
    situations, a retail customer s account may be re-aged to
    remove it from delinquent status. Generally, the intent of a
    re-aged account is to assist customers who have recently
    overcome temporary financial difficulties, and have demonstrated
    both the ability and willingness to resume regular payments. To
    qualify for re-aging, the account must have been open for at
    least one year and cannot have been re-aged during the preceding
    365 days. An account may not be re-aged more than two times
    in a five-year period. To qualify for re-aging, the customer
    must also have made three regular minimum monthly payments
    within the last 90 days. In addition, the Company may
    re-age the retail account of a customer who has experienced
    longer-term financial difficulties and apply modified,
    concessionary terms and conditions to the account. Such
    additional re-ages are limited to one in a five-year period and
    must meet the qualifications for re-aging described above. All
    re-aging strategies must be independently approved by the
    Company s credit administration function. Commercial loans
    are not subject to re-aging policies.

Accruing loans 90 days or more past due totaled
    $1,554 million ($967 million excluding covered assets)
    at December 31, 2008, compared with $584 million at
    December 31, 2007, and $349 million at
    December 31, 2006. The increase in 90 day delinquent
    loans was primarily related to residential mortgages, credit
    cards and home equity loans. These loans were not included in
    nonperforming assets and continue to accrue interest because
    they are adequately secured by collateral,
     and/or  are
    in the process of collection and are reasonably expected to
    result in repayment or restoration to current status. The ratio
    of 90 day delinquent loans to total loans was
    .84 percent (.56 percent excluding covered assets) at
    December 31, 2008, compared with .38 percent at
    December 31, 2007. The Company expects delinquencies to
    continue to increase due to deteriorating economic conditions
    and continuing stress in the housing markets.

The following table provides summary delinquency information for
    residential mortgages and retail loans, excluding covered assets:

U.S. BANCORP   39 

Within these product categories, the following table provides
    information on delinquent and nonperforming loans as a percent
    of ending loan balances, by channel:

(a)

Consumer
    finance category included credit originated and managed by the
    consumer finance division, as well as the majority of home
    equity and second mortgages with a loan-to-value greater than
    100 percent that were originated in the branches.   

Within the consumer finance division at December 31, 2008,
    approximately $467 million and $121 million of these
    delinquent and nonperforming residential mortgages and other
    retail loans, respectively, were to customers that may be
    defined as sub-prime borrowers, compared with $227 million
    and $89 million, respectively at December 31, 2007.

The following table provides summary delinquency information for
    covered assets:

Restructured
    Loans Accruing Interest
        In certain
    circumstances, management may modify the terms of a loan to
    maximize the collection of the loan balance. In most cases, the
    modification is either a reduction in interest rate, extension
    of the maturity date or a reduction in the principal balance.
    Generally, the borrower is experiencing financial difficulties
    or is expected to experience difficulties in the near-term so
    concessionary modification is granted to the borrower that would
    otherwise not be considered. Restructured loans, except those
    where the principal balance has been reduced, accrue interest as
    long as the borrower complies with the revised terms and
    conditions and has demonstrated repayment performance at a level
    commensurate with the modified terms over several payment cycles.

The majority of the Company s loan restructurings occur on
    a
     case-by-case 
    basis in connection with ongoing loan collection processes.
    However, in late 2007, the Company began implementing a mortgage
    loan restructuring program for certain qualifying borrowers. In
    general, certain borrowers in the consumer finance division
    facing an interest rate reset that are current in their
    repayment status, are allowed to retain the lower of their
    existing interest rate or the market interest rate as of their
    interest reset date.

Covered assets acquired from Downey and PFF that had been
    restructured prior to the acquisitions are not considered
    restructured loans for purposes of the Company s accounting
    and disclosure because they reflect the terms in place at the
    date of the Company s investment. Covered loans
    restructured after the date of acquisition are considered
    restructured loans to the Company and are accounted for in the
    same manner as the Company s other restructured loans. The
    Company expects to restructure a substantial amount of the
    covered assets over the next two years.

The following table provides a summary of restructured loans
    that are performing in accordance with the modified terms, and
    therefore continue to accrue interest:

Restructured loans that continue to accrue interest were
    $958 million higher at December 31, 2008, compared
    with December 31, 2007, reflecting the impact of
    residential mortgage restructurings. The Company expects this
    trend to continue in the near term as difficult economic
    conditions continue and borrowers seek alternative payment
    arrangements.

40     U.S. BANCORP

Table
    14        NONPERFORMING
    ASSETS (a) 

Changes in
    Nonperforming Assets  

(a)

Throughout
    this document, nonperforming assets and related ratios do not
    include accruing loans 90 days or more past due.   

(b)

Excludes
    $209 million, $102 million and $83 million at
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively of
    foreclosed GNMA loans which continue to accrue
    interest.   

(c)

Charge-offs
    exclude actions for certain card products and loan sales that
    were not classified as nonperforming at the time the charge-off
    occurred.   

(d)

Residential
    mortgage information excludes changes related to residential
    mortgages serviced by others.   

U.S. BANCORP   41 

Nonperforming
    Assets     The level of
    nonperforming assets represents another indicator of the
    potential for future credit losses. Nonperforming assets include
    nonaccrual loans, restructured loans not performing in
    accordance with modified terms, other real estate and other
    nonperforming assets owned by the Company. Interest payments
    collected from assets on nonaccrual status are typically applied
    against the principal balance and not recorded as income.

At December 31, 2008, total nonperforming assets were
    $2,624 million, compared with $690 million at year-end
    2007 and $587 million at year-end 2006. Total nonperforming
    assets at December 31, 2008, included $643 million of
    covered assets acquired from the FDIC in the Downey and PFF
    acquisitions. The nonperforming covered assets are primarily
    related to foreclosed real estate and construction loans, and
    are subject to the Loss Sharing Agreements with the FDIC. The
    ratio of total nonperforming assets to total loans and other
    real estate was 1.42 percent (1.14 percent excluding
    covered assets) at December 31, 2008, compared with
    .45 percent and .41 percent at the end of 2007 and
    2006, respectively. The $1,934 million increase in
    nonperforming assets was driven primarily by continuing stress
    in the residential construction portfolio and related
    industries, as well as the residential mortgage portfolio, an
    increase in foreclosed properties and the impact of the economic
    slowdown on other commercial customers.

Included in nonperforming loans were restructured loans that are
    not accruing interest of $151 million at December 31,
    2008, compared with $17 million at December 31, 2007.

Other real estate included in nonperforming assets was
    $190 million at December 31, 2008, compared with
    $111 million at December 31, 2007, and was primarily
    related to foreclosed properties that previously secured
    residential mortgages, home equity and second mortgage loan
    balances. The increase in other real estate assets reflected
    continuing stress in residential construction and related
    supplier industries and higher residential mortgage loan
    foreclosures.

The following table provides an analysis of other real estate
    owned ( OREO ) as a percent of their related loan
    balances, including further detail for residential mortgages and
    home equity and second mortgage loan balances by geographical
    location:

The Company anticipates nonperforming assets, including OREO,
    will continue to increase due to general economic conditions and
    continuing stress in the residential mortgage portfolio and
    residential construction industry.

The $103 million increase in total nonperforming assets in
    2007, as compared with 2006, primarily reflected higher levels
    of nonperforming loans resulting from stress in residential
    construction, associated homebuilding industries and financial
    services companies. Partially offsetting the increase in total
    nonperforming loans, was a decrease in nonperforming loans in
    the manufacturing and transportation industry sectors within the
    commercial loan portfolio. Other real estate assets were also
    higher in 2007 due to higher residential mortgage loan
    foreclosures as consumers experienced financial difficulties
    given inflationary factors, changing interest rates and other
    current economic conditions.

Analysis of
    Loan Net Charge-Offs
        Total loan net
    charge-offs were $1,819 million in 2008, compared with
    $792 million in 2007 and $544 million in 2006. The
    ratio of total loan net charge-offs to average loans was
    1.10 percent in 2008, compared with .54 percent in
    2007 and .39 percent in 2006. The increase in net
    charge-offs in 2008, compared with 2007, was driven by factors
    affecting the residential housing markets as well as
    homebuilding and related industries, credit costs associated
    with credit card and other consumer loan growth over the past
    several quarters. Given current economic conditions and the
    continuing decline in home and other collateral values, the
    Company expects net charge-offs to increase during 2009.

Commercial and commercial real estate loan net charge-offs for
    2008 were $514 million (.60 percent of average loans
    outstanding), compared with $159 million (.21 percent
    of average loans outstanding) in 2007 and $88 million

42     U.S. BANCORP

Table 15        NET
    CHARGE-OFFS AS A PERCENT OF AVERAGE LOANS OUTSTANDING 

(.12 percent of average loans outstanding) in 2006. The
    increase in net charge-offs in 2008, compared with 2007 and the
    increase in 2007, compared with 2006, reflected the continuing
    stress within the portfolios, especially residential
    homebuilding and related industry sectors.

Residential mortgage loan net charge-offs for 2008 were
    $234 million (1.01 percent of average loans
    outstanding), compared with $61 million (.28 percent
    of average loans outstanding) in 2007 and $41 million
    (.19 percent of average loans outstanding) in 2006. The
    increase in residential mortgage losses in 2008 was primarily a
    result of a domestic economic recession, combined with rapidly
    decreasing residential real estate values in some markets.

Retail loan net charge-offs in 2008 were $1,066 million
    (1.92 percent of average loans outstanding), compared with
    $572 million (1.17 percent of average loans
    outstanding) in 2007 and $415 million (.92 percent of
    average loans outstanding) in 2006. The increase in retail loan
    net charge-offs in 2008 reflected the Company s growth in
    credit card and other consumer loan balances, as well as the
    adverse impact of current economic conditions on consumers. The
    increase in retail loan net charge-offs in 2007 reflected growth
    in the credit card and installment loan portfolios. In addition,
    net charge-offs for 2006 reflected the beneficial impact of
    bankruptcy legislation changes that occurred in the fourth
    quarter of 2005.

The following table provides an analysis of net charge-offs as a
    percent of average loans outstanding managed by the consumer
    finance division, compared with other retail related loans:

(a)

Consumer
    finance category included credit originated and managed by the
    consumer finance division, as well as the majority of home
    equity and second mortgages with a loan-to-value greater than
    100 percent that were originated in the branches.   

U.S. BANCORP   43 

The following table provides further information on net
    charge-offs as a percent of average loans outstanding for the
    consumer finance division:

Analysis and
    Determination of the Allowance for Credit Losses
        The allowance for
    loan losses reserves for probable and estimable losses incurred
    in the Company s loan and lease portfolio, considering
    credit loss protection from the Loss Sharing Agreements with the
    FDIC. At December 31, 2008, allowances for loan losses on
    covered assets were $74 million. The majority of the credit
    risk of the covered assets was recorded as a discount on the
    loans because they were recorded at fair value at acquisition.
    Management evaluates the allowance each quarter to determine it
    is sufficient to cover incurred losses. The evaluation of each
    element and the overall allowance is based on a continuing
    assessment of problem loans, recent loss experience and other
    factors, including regulatory guidance and economic conditions.
    Because business processes and credit risks associated with
    unfunded credit commitments are essentially the same as for
    loans, the Company utilizes similar processes to estimate its
    liability for unfunded credit commitments, which is included in
    other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Both the
    allowance for loan losses and the liability for unfunded credit
    commitments are included in the Company s analysis of
    credit losses and reported reserve ratios.

At December 31, 2008, the allowance for credit losses was
    $3,639 million (1.96 percent of total loans and
    2.09 percent of loans excluding covered assets), compared
    with an allowance of $2,260 million (1.47 percent of
    loans) at December 31, 2007, and $2,256 million
    (1.57 percent of loans) at December 31, 2006. The
    ratio of the allowance for credit losses to nonperforming loans
    was 151 percent (206 percent excluding covered assets)
    at December 31, 2008, compared with 406 percent and
    480 percent at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to
    loan net charge-offs at December 31, 2008, was
    200 percent (201 percent excluding covered assets),
    compared with 285 percent and 415 percent at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Management
    determined the allowance for credit losses was appropriate at
    December 31, 2008.

Several factors were taken into consideration in evaluating the
    allowance for credit losses at December 31, 2008, including
    the risk profile of the portfolios, loan net charge-offs during
    the period, the level of nonperforming assets, accruing loans
    90 days or more past due, delinquency ratios and changes in
    restructured loan balances. Management also considered the
    uncertainty related to certain industry sectors, and the extent
    of credit exposure to specific borrowers within the portfolio.
    In addition, concentration risks associated with commercial real
    estate and the mix of loans, including credit cards, loans
    originated through the consumer finance division and residential
    mortgages balances, and their relative credit risks were
    evaluated. Finally, the Company considered current economic
    conditions that might impact the portfolio. Management
    determines the allowance that is required for specific loan
    categories based on relative risk characteristics of the loan
    portfolio. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its methods
    for determining the allowance for each element of the portfolio
    and makes enhancements considered appropriate. Table 17
    shows the amount of the allowance for credit losses by portfolio
    category.

Regardless of the extent of the Company s analysis of
    customer performance, portfolio trends or risk management
    processes, certain incurred but undetected losses are probable
    within the loan portfolios. This is due to several factors,
    including inherent delays in obtaining information regarding a
    customer s financial condition or changes in their unique
    business conditions, the judgmental nature of individual loan
    evaluations, collateral assessments and the interpretation of
    economic trends. Volatility of economic or customer-specific
    conditions affecting the identification and estimation of losses
    from larger non-homogeneous credits and the sensitivity of
    assumptions utilized to establish allowances for homogeneous
    groups of loans, loan portfolio concentrations, and additional
    subjective considerations are among other factors. Because of
    these subjective factors, the process utilized to determine each
    element of the allowance for credit losses by specific loan
    category has some imprecision. As such, the Company estimates a
    range of incurred losses in the portfolio based on statistical
    analyses and management judgment. A statistical analysis
    attempts to measure the extent of imprecision and other
    uncertainty by determining the volatility of losses over time,
    across loan categories. Also, management judgmentally considers
    loan concentrations, risks associated with specific industries,
    the stage of the business cycle, economic conditions and other
    qualitative factors. Beginning in 2007, the Company assigned
    this element of the allowance to each portfolio type to better
    reflect the Company s risk in the specific portfolios. In
    years prior to 2007, this element of the allowance was
    separately categorized as  allowance available for other
    factors .

44     U.S. BANCORP

Table 16        SUMMARY
    OF ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES 

U.S. BANCORP   45 

Table 17        ELEMENTS
    OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES 

The allowance recorded for commercial and commercial real estate
    loans is based, in part, on a regular review of individual
    credit relationships. The Company s risk rating process is
    an integral component of the methodology utilized to determine
    these elements of the allowance for credit losses. An allowance
    for credit losses is established for pools of commercial and
    commercial real estate loans and unfunded commitments based on
    the risk ratings assigned. An analysis of the migration of
    commercial and commercial real estate loans and actual loss
    experience throughout the business cycle is conducted quarterly
    to assess the exposure for credits with similar risk
    characteristics. In addition to its risk rating process, the
    Company separately analyzes the carrying value of impaired loans
    to determine whether the carrying value is less than or equal to
    the appraised collateral value or the present value of expected
    cash flows. Based on this analysis, an allowance for credit
    losses may be specifically established for impaired loans. The
    allowance established for commercial and commercial real estate
    loan portfolios, including impaired commercial and commercial
    real estate loans, was $1,439 million at December 31, 2008,
    compared with $1,264 million at December 31, 2007, and
    $955 million at December 31, 2006. The increase in the
    allowance for commercial and commercial real estate loans of
    $175 million at December 31, 2008, compared with
    December 31, 2007, reflected the increasing stress within
    the portfolios, especially residential homebuilding and related
    industry sectors.

The allowance recorded for the residential mortgages and retail
    loan portfolios is based on an analysis of product mix, credit
    scoring and risk composition of the portfolio, loss and
    bankruptcy experiences, economic conditions and historical and
    expected delinquency and charge-off statistics for each
    homogenous group of loans. Based on this information and
    analysis, an allowance was established approximating a
    twelve-month estimate of net charge-offs. The allowance
    established for residential mortgages was $524 million at
    December 31, 2008, compared with $131 million and
    $58 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. The increase in the allowance for the residential
    mortgages portfolio year-over-year was driven by portfolio
    growth, rising foreclosures and current economic conditions. The
    allowance established for retail loans was $1,602 million
    at December 31, 2008, compared with $865 million and
    $542 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. The increase in the allowance for the retail
    portfolio in 2008 reflected foreclosures in the home equity
    portfolio, growth in the credit card and other retail portfolios
    and the impact of current economic conditions on customers.

Although the Company determines the amount of each element of
    the allowance separately and this process is an important credit
    management tool, the entire allowance for credit losses is
    available for the entire loan portfolio. The actual amount of
    losses incurred can vary significantly from the estimated
    amounts.

Residual Value
    Risk Management    The
    Company manages its risk to changes in the residual value of
    leased assets through disciplined residual valuation setting at
    the inception of a lease, diversification of its leased assets,
    regular residual

46     U.S. BANCORP

asset valuation reviews and monitoring of residual value gains
    or losses upon the disposition of assets. Commercial lease
    originations are subject to the same well-defined underwriting
    standards referred to in the  Credit Risk Management 
    section which includes an evaluation of the residual value risk.
    Retail lease residual value risk is mitigated further by
    originating longer-term vehicle leases and effective end-of-term
    marketing of off-lease vehicles. Prior to 2008, the Company
    maintained residual value insurance to reduce the financial risk
    of potential changes in vehicle residual values. In 2008, the
    Company terminated the residual value insurance and received a
    negotiated settlement for insured residual value exposure which
    was not material. The Company considered the lack of residual
    value insurance in evaluating leased assets for impairment.

Included in the retail leasing portfolio was approximately
    $3.2 billion of retail leasing residuals at
    December 31, 2008, compared with $3.8 billion at
    December 31, 2007. The Company monitors concentrations of
    leases by manufacturer and vehicle  make and model. 
    As of December 31, 2008, vehicle lease residuals related to
    sport utility vehicles were 38.7 percent of the portfolio
    while mid-range and upscale vehicle classes represented
    approximately 19.7 percent and 18.7 percent,
    respectively. At year-end 2008, the largest vehicle-type
    concentration represented approximately 6.3 percent of the
    aggregate residual value of the vehicles in the portfolio.

Because retail residual valuations tend to be less volatile for
    longer-term leases, relative to the estimated residual at
    inception of the lease, the Company actively manages lease
    origination production to achieve a longer-term portfolio. At
    December 31, 2008, the weighted-average origination term of
    the portfolio was 47 months, compared with 49 months
    at December 31, 2007. During the several years prior to
    2008, new vehicle sales volumes experienced strong growth driven
    by manufacturer incentives, consumer spending levels and strong
    economic conditions. In 2008, sales of new cars softened due to
    the overall weakening of the economy. Current expectations are
    that sales of new vehicles will continue to trend downward in
    2009. The Company s portfolio has experienced deterioration
    in residual values in 2008 in all categories, most notably sport
    utility vehicles and luxury models, as a result of higher fuel
    prices and a declining economy. These conditions resulted in
    lower used vehicle prices and higher end-of-term average losses.
    During 2008, the Company recognized residual value impairments
    of approximately 7.0 percent of the residual portfolio. In
    the fourth quarter of 2008, used vehicle values stabilized
    somewhat as fuel prices began to decline. As a result of current
    economic conditions, the Company expects residual value losses
    will continue at a similar percentage to 2008, but will decrease
    overall as the leasing portfolio decreases.

At December 31, 2008, the commercial leasing portfolio had
    $690 million of residuals, compared with $660 million
    at December 31, 2007. At year-end 2008, lease residuals
    related to trucks and other transportation equipment were
    30.5 percent of the total residual portfolio. Business and
    office equipment represented 17.2 percent of the aggregate
    portfolio, while railcars and aircraft were 16.6 percent
    and 10.0 percent, respectively. No other significant
    concentrations of more than 10 percent existed at
    December 31, 2008.

Operational Risk
    Management    Operational
    risk represents the risk of loss resulting from the
    Company s operations, including, but not limited to, the
    risk of fraud by employees or persons outside the Company, the
    execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors
    relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of
    the internal control system and compliance requirements and
    business continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss
    also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a
    result of an operational deficiency or as a result of
    noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse
    business decisions or their implementation, and customer
    attrition due to potential negative publicity.

The Company operates in many different businesses in diverse
    markets and relies on the ability of its employees and systems
    to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is
    inherent in all business activities, and the management of this
    risk is important to the achievement of the Company s
    objectives. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control
    system, improper operation of systems or improper
    employees  actions, the Company could suffer financial
    loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation.

The Company manages operational risk through a risk management
    framework and its internal control processes. Within this
    framework, the Corporate Risk Committee ( Risk
    Committee ) provides oversight and assesses the most
    significant operational risks facing the Company within its
    business lines. Under the guidance of the Risk Committee,
    enterprise risk management personnel establish policies and
    interact with business lines to monitor significant operating
    risks on a regular basis. Business lines have direct and primary
    responsibility and accountability for identifying, controlling,
    and monitoring operational risks embedded in their business
    activities. Business managers maintain a system of controls with
    the objective of providing proper transaction authorization and
    execution, proper system operations, safeguarding of assets from
    misuse or theft, and ensuring the reliability of financial and
    other data. Business managers ensure that the controls are
    appropriate and are implemented as designed.

U.S. BANCORP   47 

Each business line within the Company has designated risk
    managers. These risk managers are responsible for, among other
    things, coordinating the completion of ongoing risk assessments
    and ensuring that operational risk management is integrated into
    business decision-making activities. The Company s internal
    audit function validates the system of internal controls through
    risk-based, regular and ongoing audit procedures and reports on
    the effectiveness of internal controls to executive management
    and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Management
    also provides various operational risk related reporting to the
    Risk Committee of the Board of Directors.

Customer-related business conditions may also increase
    operational risk, or the level of operational losses in certain
    transaction processing business units, including merchant
    processing activities. Ongoing risk monitoring of customer
    activities and their financial condition and operational
    processes serve to mitigate customer-related operational risk.
    Refer to Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further discussion on merchant processing.
    Business continuation and disaster recovery planning is also
    critical to effectively managing operational risks. Each
    business unit of the Company is required to develop, maintain
    and test these plans at least annually to ensure that recovery
    activities, if needed, can support mission critical functions
    including technology, networks and data centers supporting
    customer applications and business operations.

While the Company believes that it has designed effective
    methods to minimize operational risks, there is no absolute
    assurance that business disruption or operational losses would
    not occur in the event of a disaster. On an ongoing basis,
    management makes process changes and investments to enhance its
    systems of internal controls and business continuity and
    disaster recovery plans.

Interest Rate
    Risk Management    In the
    banking industry, changes in interest rates are a significant
    risk that can impact earnings, market valuations and safety and
    soundness of an entity. To minimize the volatility of net
    interest income and the market value of assets and liabilities,
    the Company manages its exposure to changes in interest rates
    through asset and liability management activities within
    guidelines established by its Asset Liability Policy Committee
    ( ALPC ) and approved by the Board of Directors. The
    ALPC has the responsibility for approving and ensuring
    compliance with the ALPC management policies, including interest
    rate risk exposure. The Company uses net interest income
    simulation analysis and market value of equity modeling for
    measuring and analyzing consolidated interest rate risk.

Net Interest
    Income Simulation Analysis
        One of the primary
    tools used to measure interest rate risk and the effect of
    interest rate changes on net interest income is simulation
    analysis. The monthly analysis incorporates substantially all of
    the Company s assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet
    instruments, together with forecasted changes in the balance
    sheet and assumptions that reflect the current interest rate
    environment. Through this simulation, management estimates the
    impact on net interest income of a 200 basis point upward
    or downward gradual change of market interest rates over a
    one-year period. The simulation also estimates the effect of
    immediate and sustained parallel shifts in the yield curve of
    50 basis points as well as the effect of immediate and
    sustained flattening or steepening of the yield curve. This
    simulation includes assumptions about how the balance sheet is
    likely to be affected by changes in loan and deposit growth.
    Assumptions are made to project interest rates for new loans and
    deposits based on historical analysis, management s outlook
    and repricing strategies. These assumptions are validated on a
    periodic basis. A sensitivity analysis is provided for key
    variables of the simulation. The results are reviewed by the
    ALPC monthly and are used to guide asset/liability management
    strategies.

The table below summarizes the interest rate risk of net
    interest income based on forecasts over the succeeding
    12 months. At December 31, 2008, the Company s
    overall interest rate risk position was asset sensitive to
    changes in interest rates. The Company manages its interest rate
    risk position by holding assets on the balance sheet with
    desired interest rate risk characteristics, implementing certain
    pricing strategies for loans and deposits and through the
    selection of derivatives and various funding and investment
    portfolio strategies. The Company manages the overall interest
    rate risk profile within policy limits. The ALPC policy limits
    the estimated change in net interest income to 4.0 percent
    of forecasted net interest income over the succeeding
    12 months. At December 31 2008 and 2007, the Company
    was within policy.

Market Value
    of Equity Modeling
        The Company also
    utilizes the market value of equity as a measurement tool in
    managing interest rate sensitivity. The market value of equity
    measures the degree to which the market values of the
    Company s assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet

SENSITIVITY OF NET
    INTEREST INCOME

*

Given
    the current level of interest rates, a downward rate scenario
    can not be computed.   

48     U.S. BANCORP

instruments will change given a change in interest rates. The
    ALPC policy limits the change in market value of equity in a
    200 basis point parallel rate shock to 15.0 percent of
    the market value of equity assuming interest rates at
    December 31, 2008. The up 200 basis point scenario
    resulted in a 7.6 percent decrease in the market value of
    equity at December 31, 2008, compared with a
    7.6 percent decrease at December 31, 2007. The down
    200 basis point scenario resulted in a 2.8 percent
    decrease in the market value of equity at December 31,
    2008, compared with a 3.5 percent decrease at
    December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the
    Company was within policy.

The valuation analysis is dependent upon certain key assumptions
    about the nature of assets and liabilities with non-contractual
    maturities. Management estimates the average life and rate
    characteristics of asset and liability accounts based upon
    historical analysis and management s expectation of rate
    behavior. These assumptions are validated on a periodic basis. A
    sensitivity analysis of key variables of the valuation analysis
    is provided to the ALPC monthly and is used to guide
    asset/liability management strategies. The Company also uses
    duration of equity as a measure of interest rate risk. The
    duration of equity is a measure of the net market value
    sensitivity of the assets, liabilities and derivative positions
    of the Company. The duration of assets was 1.6 years at
    December 31, 2008, compared with 1.8 years at
    December 31, 2007. The duration of liabilities was
    1.7 years at December 31, 2008, compared with
    1.9 years at December 31, 2007. At December 31,
    2008, the duration of equity was 1.2 years, unchanged from
    December 31, 2007.

Use of
    Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate and Other Risks
       In the ordinary course
    of business, the Company enters into derivative transactions to
    manage its interest rate, prepayment, credit, price and foreign
    currency risks ( asset and liability management
    positions ) and to accommodate the business requirements of
    its customers ( customer-related positions ). To
    manage its interest rate risk, the Company may enter into
    interest rate swap agreements and interest rate options such as
    caps and floors. Interest rate swaps involve the exchange of
    fixed-rate and variable-rate payments without the exchange of
    the underlying notional amount on which the interest payments
    are calculated. Interest rate caps protect against rising
    interest rates while interest rate floors protect against
    declining interest rates. In connection with its mortgage
    banking operations, the Company enters into forward commitments
    to sell mortgage loans related to fixed-rate mortgage loans held
    for sale and fixed-rate mortgage loan commitments. The Company
    also acts as a seller and buyer of interest rate contracts and
    foreign exchange rate contracts on behalf of customers. The
    Company minimizes its market and liquidity risks by taking
    similar offsetting positions.

All interest rate derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting
    are recorded at fair value as other assets or liabilities on the
    balance sheet and are designated as either  fair
    value  or  cash flow  hedges. The Company
    performs an assessment, both at inception and quarterly
    thereafter, when required, to determine whether these
    derivatives are highly effective in offsetting changes in the
    value of the hedged items. Hedge ineffectiveness for both cash
    flow and fair value hedges is recorded in noninterest income.
    Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair
    value hedges, and changes in the fair value of the hedged items,
    are recorded in earnings. Changes in the fair value of
    derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in other
    comprehensive income (loss) until income from the cash flows of
    the hedged items is realized. Customer-related interest rate
    swaps, foreign exchange rate contracts, and all other derivative
    contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recorded
    at fair value and resulting gains or losses are recorded in
    other noninterest income or mortgage banking revenue. Gains and
    losses on customer-related derivative positions, net of gains
    and losses on related offsetting positions entered into by the
    Company, were not material in 2008.

By their nature, derivative instruments are subject to market
    risk. The Company does not utilize derivative instruments for
    speculative purposes. Of the Company s $55.9 billion
    of total notional amount of asset and liability management
    positions at December 31, 2008, $17.4 billion was
    designated as either fair value or cash flow hedges or net
    investment hedges of foreign operations. The cash flow hedge
    derivative positions are interest rate swaps that hedge the
    forecasted cash flows from the underlying variable-rate debt.
    The fair value hedges are primarily interest rate swaps that
    hedge the change in fair value related to interest rate changes
    of underlying fixed-rate debt and subordinated obligations.

Derivative instruments are also subject to credit risk
    associated with counterparties to the derivative contracts.
    Credit risk associated with derivatives is measured based on the
    replacement cost should the counterparties with contracts in a
    gain position to the Company fail to perform under the terms of
    the contract. The Company manages this risk through
    diversification of its derivative positions among various
    counterparties, requiring collateral agreements with
    credit-rating thresholds, and in certain cases, entering into
    master netting agreements and interest rate swap risk
    participation agreements. These interest rate swap risk
    participation agreements transfer the credit risk related to

U.S. BANCORP   49 

Table 18        DERIVATIVE
    POSITIONS 

ASSET
    AND LIABILITY MANAGEMENT POSITIONS

CUSTOMER-RELATED
    POSITIONS

50     U.S. BANCORP

interest rate swaps from the Company to an unaffiliated
    third-party. The Company also provides credit protection to
    third-parties with risk participation agreements.

At December 31, 2008, the Company had $650 million of
    realized and unrealized losses on derivatives classified as cash
    flow hedges recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss). Unrealized gains and losses are reflected in earnings
    when the related cash flows or hedged transactions occur and
    offset the related performance of the hedged items. The
    estimated amount to be reclassified from accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) into earnings during the next
    12 months is a loss of $200 million.

The change in the fair value of all other asset and liability
    management derivative positions attributed to hedge
    ineffectiveness recorded in noninterest income was not material
    for 2008. The impact of adopting SFAS 157 in the first
    quarter of 2008 reduced 2008 noninterest income by
    $62 million as it required the Company to consider the
    principal market and nonperformance risk in determining the fair
    value of derivative positions. On an ongoing basis, the Company
    considers the risk of nonperformance in its derivative asset and
    liability positions. In its assessment of nonperformance risk,
    the Company considers its ability to net derivative positions
    under master netting agreements, as well as collateral received
    or provided under collateral support agreements.

The Company enters into derivatives to protect its net
    investment in certain foreign operations. The Company uses
    forward commitments to sell specified amounts of certain foreign
    currencies to hedge fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
    rates. The net amount of gains or losses included in the
    cumulative translation adjustment for 2008 was not material.

The Company uses forward commitments to sell residential
    mortgage loans to economically hedge its interest rate risk
    related to residential MLHFS. The Company commits to sell the
    loans at specified prices in a future period, typically within
    90 days. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk
    during the period between issuing a loan commitment and the sale
    of the loan into the secondary market. In connection with its
    mortgage banking operations, the Company held $8.4 billion
    of forward commitments to sell mortgage loans and
    $9.2 billion of unfunded mortgage loan commitments at
    December 31, 2008, that were derivatives in accordance with
    the provisions of the Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative
    Instruments and Hedge Activities.  The unfunded mortgage
    loan commitments are reported at fair value as options in
    Table 18.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 159,  The Fair
    Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities , and elected to measure certain MLHFS
    originated on or after January 1, 2008, at fair value. The
    fair value election for MLHFS will reduce certain timing
    differences and better match changes in the value of these
    mortgage loans with changes in the value of the derivatives used
    as economic hedges for these mortgage loans. The Company also
    utilizes U.S. Treasury futures, options on
    U.S. Treasury futures contracts, interest rate swaps and
    forward commitments to buy residential mortgage loans to
    economically hedge the change in fair value of its residential
    MSRs.

Table 18 summarizes information on the Company s
    derivative positions at December 31, 2008. Refer to
    Notes 1 and 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for significant accounting policies and additional
    information regarding the Company s use of derivatives.

Market Risk
    Management    In addition
    to interest rate risk, the Company is exposed to other forms of
    market risk as a consequence of conducting normal trading
    activities. These trading activities principally support the
    risk management processes of the Company s customers
    including their management of foreign currency and interest rate
    risks. The Company also manages market risk of non-trading
    business activities, including its MSRs and loans held-for-sale.
    Value at Risk ( VaR ) is a key measure of market risk
    for the Company. Theoretically, VaR represents the maximum
    amount that the Company has placed at risk of loss, with a
    ninety-ninth percentile degree of confidence, to adverse market
    movements in the course of its risk taking activities.

VaR modeling of trading activities is subject to certain
    limitations. Additionally, it should be recognized that there
    are assumptions and estimates associated with VaR modeling, and
    actual results could differ from those assumptions and
    estimates. The Company mitigates these uncertainties through
    regular monitoring of trading activities by management and other
    risk management practices, including stop-loss and position
    limits related to its trading activities. Stress-test models are
    used to provide management with perspectives on market events
    that VaR models do not capture.

The Company establishes market risk limits, subject to approval
    by the Company s Board of Directors. The Company s
    market valuation risk for trading and non-trading positions, as
    estimated by the VaR analysis, was $2 million and
    $10 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008,
    compared with $1 million and $15 million,
    respectively, at December 31, 2007. The Company s VaR
    limit was $45 million at December 31, 2008.

Liquidity Risk
    Management    The ALPC
    establishes policies, as well as analyzes and manages liquidity,
    to ensure that

U.S. BANCORP   51 

Table 19        DEBT
    RATINGS 

Dominion 

Standard   

Fitch 

Bond 

Moody s

Poor s

Ratings

Rating Service

U.S. Bancorp 

Short-term borrowings

F1+

R-1 (middle

)

Senior debt and medium-term notes

Aa2

AA

AA-

AA

Subordinated debt

Aa3

AA-

A+

AA (low

)

Preferred stock

A1

A+

A+

Commercial paper

P-1

A-1+

F1+

R-1 (middle

)

U.S. Bank National Association 

Short-term time deposits

P-1

A-1+

F1+

R-1 (high

)

Long-term time deposits

Aa1

AA+

AA

AA (high

)

Bank notes

Aa1/P-1

AA+/A-1+

AA-/F1+

AA (high

)

Subordinated debt

Aa2

AA

A+

AA

Commercial paper

P-1

A-1+

F1+

R-1 (high

)

adequate funds are available to meet normal operating
    requirements in addition to unexpected customer demands for
    funds, such as high levels of deposit withdrawals or loan
    demand, in a timely and cost-effective manner. The most
    important factor in the preservation of liquidity is maintaining
    public confidence that facilitates the retention and growth of a
    large, stable supply of core deposits and wholesale funds.

Unfavorable conditions that have affected the economy and
    financial markets since mid-2007, further intensified in 2008,
    as did a global economic slowdown, resulting in an overall
    decrease in the confidence in the markets. This has led to
    liquidity pressures on the short-term funding markets and
    additional stress on global banking systems and economies. As a
    result of these challenging financial market conditions,
    liquidity premiums have widened and many banks have experienced
    certain liquidity constraints, substantially increased pricing
    to retain deposit balances or utilized the Federal Reserve
    System discount window to secure adequate funding. In an effort
    to restore confidence in the financial markets and strengthen
    financial institutions, the FDIC instituted the Temporary
    Liquidity Guarantee Program ( TLGP ) in the fourth
    quarter of 2008, in which the Company has opted to participate.
    The TLGP is aimed at unlocking credit markets, particularly
    inter-bank credit markets, and gives healthy banks access to
    liquidity in two ways. First, the FDIC has guaranteed new,
    senior unsecured debt issued by a bank, thrift or holding
    company ( the debt guarantee program ). Under the debt
    guarantee program, new debt will be fully guaranteed by the FDIC
    until the shorter of the maturity date or June 30, 2012.
    The second part of the program gives unlimited insurance
    coverage for noninterest-bearing deposit transaction accounts
    ( the transaction account guarantee program ), which
    frequently exceed the current maximum FDIC insurance limit of
    $250,000. The transaction account guarantee program also expands
    the definition of noninterest-bearing accounts to include
    interest checking accounts with annual interest rates of up to
    .5 percent. The transaction account guarantee program is in
    effect through December 31, 2009.

Ultimately, public confidence is generated through profitable
    operations, sound credit quality and a strong capital position.
    The Company s performance in these areas has enabled it to
    develop a large and reliable base of core deposit funding within
    its market areas and in domestic and global capital markets.
    This has allowed the Company to experience strong liquidity, as
    depositors and investors in the wholesale funding markets seek
    strong financial institutions. Liquidity management is viewed
    from long-term and short-term perspectives, as well as from an
    asset and liability perspective. Management monitors liquidity
    through a regular review of maturity profiles, funding sources,
    and loan and deposit forecasts to minimize funding risk.

The Company maintains strategic liquidity and contingency plans
    that are subject to the availability of asset liquidity in the
    balance sheet. Monthly, the ALPC reviews the Company s
    ability to meet funding requirements due to adverse business
    events. These funding needs are then matched with specific
    asset-based sources to ensure sufficient funds are available.
    Also, strategic liquidity policies require diversification of
    wholesale funding sources to avoid concentrations in any one
    market source. Subsidiary companies are members of various
    Federal Home Loan Banks ( FHLB ) that provide a source
    of funding through FHLB advances. The Company maintains a Grand
    Cayman branch for issuing eurodollar time deposits. The Company
    also issues commercial paper through its Canadian branch. In
    addition, the Company establishes relationships with dealers to
    issue national market retail and institutional savings
    certificates and short-term and medium-term bank notes. The
    Company s subsidiary banks also have significant
    correspondent banking networks and corporate accounts.
    Accordingly, the Company has access to national fed funds,
    funding through repurchase agreements and sources of

52     U.S. BANCORP

Table 20        CONTRACTUAL
    OBLIGATIONS 

(a)

Unrecognized
    tax positions of $283 million at December 31, 2008,
    are excluded as the Company cannot make a reasonably reliable
    estimate of the period of cash settlement with the respective
    taxing authority.   

(b)

In
    the banking industry, interest-bearing obligations are
    principally utilized to fund interest-bearing assets. As such,
    interest charges on related contractual obligations were
    excluded from reported amounts as the potential cash outflows
    would have corresponding cash inflows from interest-bearing
    assets.   

(c)

Amounts
    only include obligations related to the unfunded non-qualified
    pension plans and post-retirement medical plan.   

stable, regionally-based certificates of deposit and commercial
    paper.

The Company s ability to raise negotiated funding at
    competitive prices is influenced by rating agencies  views
    of the Company s credit quality, liquidity, capital and
    earnings. At December 31, 2008, the credit ratings outlook
    for the Company was considered  Positive  by Fitch
    Ratings and  Stable  by Standard  
    Poor s Ratings Services, Moody s Investors Service and
    Dominion Bond Ratings Service. Table 19 details the rating
    agencies  most recent assessments.

The parent company s routine funding requirements consist
    primarily of operating expenses, dividends paid to shareholders,
    debt service, repurchases of common stock and funds used for
    acquisitions. The parent company obtains funding to meet its
    obligations from dividends collected from its subsidiaries and
    the issuance of debt securities.

Under United States Securities and Exchange Commission rules,
    the parent company is classified as a  well-known seasoned
    issuer,  which allows it to file a registration statement
    that does not have a limit on issuance capacity.
     Well-known seasoned issuers  generally include those
    companies with outstanding common securities with a market value
    of at least $700 million held by non-affiliated parties or
    those companies that have issued at least $1 billion in
    aggregate principal amount of non-convertible securities, other
    than common equity, in the last three years. However, the parent
    company s ability to issue debt and other securities under
    a registration statement filed with the United States Securities
    and Exchange Commission under these rules is limited by the debt
    issuance authority granted by the Company s Board of
    Directors
     and/or  the
    ALPC policy.

At December 31, 2008, parent company long-term debt
    outstanding was $10.8 billion, compared with
    $10.7 billion at December 31, 2007. Long-term debt
    activity in 2008 included $3.8 billion of medium-term note
    issuances, offset by $3.3 billion of convertible senior
    debenture payments and $.5 billion of medium-term note
    maturities during 2008. Total parent company debt scheduled to
    mature in 2009 is $1.0 billion. These debt obligations may
    be met through medium-term note and capital security issuances
    and dividends from subsidiaries, as well as from parent company
    cash and cash equivalents.

Federal banking laws regulate the amount of dividends that may
    be paid by banking subsidiaries without prior approval. The
    amount of dividends available to the parent company from its
    banking subsidiaries after meeting the regulatory capital
    requirements for well-capitalized banks was approximately
    $1.3 billion at December 31, 2008. For further
    information, see Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements
        Off-balance sheet
    arrangements include any contractual arrangement to which an
    unconsolidated entity is a party, under which the Company has an
    obligation to provide credit or liquidity enhancements or market
    risk support. Off-balance sheet arrangements include certain
    defined guarantees, asset securitization trusts and conduits.
    Off-balance sheet arrangements also include any obligation under
    a variable interest held by an unconsolidated entity that
    provides financing, liquidity, credit enhancement or market risk
    support.

In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into an
    array of commitments to extend credit, letters of credit and
    various forms of guarantees that may be considered off-balance
    sheet arrangements. The nature and extent of these arrangements
    are provided in Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Asset securitizations and conduits may represent a source of
    funding for the Company through off-balance sheet structures.
    Credit, liquidity, operational and legal structural risks exist
    due to the nature and complexity of asset securitizations and
    other off-balance sheet structures. The ALPC regularly monitors
    the performance of each off-

U.S. BANCORP   53 

Table 21        REGULATORY
    CAPITAL RATIOS 

balance sheet structure in an effort to minimize these risks and
    ensure compliance with the requirements of the structures. The
    Company uses its credit risk management processes to evaluate
    the credit quality of underlying assets and regularly forecasts
    cash flows to evaluate any potential impairment of retained
    interests. Also, regulatory guidelines require consideration of
    asset securitizations in the determination of risk-based capital
    ratios. The Company does not rely significantly on off-balance
    sheet arrangements for liquidity or capital resources.

The Company sponsors an off-balance sheet conduit to which it
    transferred high-grade investment securities, initially funded
    by the issuance of commercial paper. These investment securities
    include primarily (i) private label asset-backed
    securities, which are guaranteed by third-party insurers, and
    (ii) collateralized mortgage obligations. The conduit held
    assets of $.8 billion at December 31, 2008, and
    $1.2 billion at December 31, 2007. In March 2008, the
    conduit ceased issuing commercial paper and began to draw upon a
    Company-provided liquidity facility to replace outstanding
    commercial paper as it matured. The draws upon the liquidity
    facility resulted in the conduit becoming a non-qualifying
    special purpose entity. However, the Company is not the primary
    beneficiary and, therefore, does not consolidate the conduit. At
    December 31, 2008, the amount advanced to the conduit under
    the liquidity facility was $.9 billion, which is recorded
    on the Company s balance sheet in commercial loans.
    Proceeds from the conduit s investment securities,
    including any guarantee payments, will be used to repay draws on
    the liquidity facility. The Company believes there is sufficient
    collateral to repay all of the liquidity facility advances.

Capital
    Management    The Company
    is committed to managing capital for maximum shareholder benefit
    and maintaining strong protection for depositors and creditors.
    The Company continually assesses its business risks and capital
    position. The Company also manages its capital to exceed
    regulatory capital requirements for well-capitalized bank
    holding companies. To achieve these capital goals, the Company
    employs a variety of capital management tools, including
    dividends, common share repurchases, and the issuance of
    subordinated debt and other capital instruments.

At December 31, 2008, the Company s tangible common
    equity divided by tangible assets was 3.2 percent
    (4.5 percent excluding accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss)).

On November 14, 2008, the Company issued 6.6 million
    shares of cumulative perpetual preferred stock and related
    warrants to the United States Treasury under the Capital
    Purchase Program of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of
    2008, for which it received total proceeds of $6.6 billion
    in cash. Under the program, the cumulative perpetual preferred
    stock s dividend rate is 5 percent per annum for five
    years, increasing to 9 percent per annum, thereafter, if
    the cumulative perpetual preferred shares are not redeemed by
    the Company. In addition to the cumulative perpetual preferred
    stock, the United States Treasury received warrants entitling it
    to purchase, during the next ten years, approximately
    33 million shares of common stock of the Company, at a
    price per common share of $30.29. Participation in this program
    restricts the

54     U.S. BANCORP

Company s ability to increase its quarterly dividend and
    repurchase its common stock for up to three years or for as long
    as the preferred stock issued under the program remains
    outstanding, if shorter. The American Recovery and Reinvestment
    Act of 2009, requires the United States Treasury, subject to
    consultation with appropriate banking regulators, to permit
    participants in the Capital Purchase Program to repay any
    amounts previously received without regard to whether the
    recipient has replaced such funds from any other sources or to
    any waiting period. Refer to Note 15 in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

During 2008 and 2007, the Company repurchased 2 million and
    58 million shares, respectively, of its common stock under
    various authorizations approved by its Board of Directors. The
    average price paid for the shares repurchased in 2008 was $33.59
    per share, compared with $34.84 per share in 2007. As of
    December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately
    20 million shares that may yet be purchased under the
    current Board of Director approved authorization, in connection
    with the administration of its employee benefit plans in the
    ordinary course of business, to the extent permitted under the
    Capital Purchase Program of the Emergency Economic Stabilization
    Act of 2008. For a complete analysis of activities impacting
    shareholders  equity and capital management programs, refer
    to Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Banking regulators define minimum capital requirements for banks
    and financial services holding companies. These requirements are
    expressed in the form of a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio,
    total risk-based capital ratio, and Tier 1 leverage ratio.
    The minimum required level for these ratios is 4.0 percent,
    8.0 percent, and 4.0 percent, respectively. The
    Company targets its regulatory capital levels, at both the bank
    and bank holding company level, to exceed the
     well-capitalized  threshold for these ratios of
    6.0 percent, 10.0 percent, and 5.0 percent,
    respectively. The most recent notification from the Office of
    the Comptroller of the Currency categorized each of the covered
    banks as  well-capitalized , under the FDIC
    Improvement Act prompt corrective action provisions applicable
    to all banks. There are no conditions or events since that
    notification that management believes have changed the
    risk-based category of any covered subsidiary banks.

As an approved mortgage seller and servicer, U.S. Bank
    National Association, through its mortgage banking division, is
    required to maintain various levels of shareholders 
    equity, as specified by various agencies, including the United
    States Department of Housing and Urban Development, Government
    National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage
    Corporation and the Federal National Mortgage Association. At
    December 31, 2008, U.S. Bank National Association met
    these requirements.

Table 21 provides a summary of capital ratios as of
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, including Tier 1 and total
    risk-based capital ratios, as defined by the regulatory agencies.

FOURTH QUARTER
    SUMMARY

The Company reported net income of $330 million for the
    fourth quarter of 2008, or $.15 per diluted common share,
    compared with $942 million, or $.53 per diluted common
    share, for the fourth quarter of 2007. Return on average assets
    and return on average common equity were .51 percent and
    5.3 percent, respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2008,
    compared with returns of 1.63 percent and
    18.3 percent, respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2007.
    Challenging market conditions continued and had an impact on the
    fourth quarter of 2008 results. Significant items reflected in
    the fourth quarter of 2008 results included $253 million of
    net securities losses, primarily on structured
    investment-related securities. In addition, the Company
    increased the allowance for credit losses by recording
    $635 million of provision for credit losses expense in
    excess of net charge-offs. The Company s results for the
    fourth quarter of 2007 were also impacted by significant items,
    including a $215 million Visa Charge and $107 million
    of valuation losses related to structured investment securities.

Total net revenue, on a taxable-equivalent basis for the fourth
    quarter of 2008, was $50 million (1.4 percent) higher
    than the fourth quarter of 2007, reflecting a 22.6 percent
    increase in net interest income, offset by a 19.2 percent
    decrease in noninterest income. The increase in net interest
    income from a year ago, was driven by growth in average earning
    assets and an increase in the net interest margin. Noninterest
    income declined from a year ago, as payment services, trust and
    investment management fees and deposit service charges were
    affected by the impact of the slowing economy on equity
    valuations and customer behavior. In addition, noninterest
    income was adversely impacted by securities impairments,
    market-related valuation losses and retail lease residual losses.

Fourth quarter net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent
    basis was $2,161 million, compared with $1,763 million
    in the fourth quarter of 2007. Average earning assets for the
    period increased over the fourth quarter of 2007 by
    $25.7 billion (12.8 percent, 9.4 percent
    excluding acquisitions), primarily driven by a
    $25.8 billion (17.0 percent) increase in average
    loans. The net interest margin in the fourth quarter of 2008 was
    3.81 percent, compared with 3.51 percent in the fourth
    quarter of 2007, reflecting growth in higher-spread loans,
    asset/liability re-pricing in a declining interest rate
    environment and

U.S. BANCORP   55 

wholesale funding mix during a period of significant volatility
    in short-term funding markets.

Noninterest income in the fourth quarter of 2008 was
    $1,463 million, compared with $1,811 million in the
    same period of 2007. Noninterest income declined
    $348 million (19.2 percent) from the fourth quarter of
    2007, as fee-based revenue in a number of revenue categories was
    lower as deteriorating economic conditions adversely impacted
    consumer and business behavior. In addition, total noninterest
    income was unfavorably impacted by impairment charges related to
    structured investment securities and other market valuation
    losses and higher retail lease residual losses from a year ago,
    partially offset by a $59 million Visa Gain in the fourth
    quarter of 2008. Credit and debit card revenue, corporate
    payment products revenue and merchant processing services
    revenue were lower in the fourth quarter of 2008 than the fourth
    quarter of 2007 by $29 million (10.2 percent),
    $12 million (7.2 percent) and $10 million
    (3.6 percent), respectively. All categories were impacted
    by lower transaction volumes compared with the prior year s
    quarter. Trust and investment management fees declined
    $44 million (12.8 percent) primarily due to the
    adverse impact of equity market conditions. Deposit service
    charges decreased $17 million (6.1 percent)
    year-over-year, primarily due to lower overdraft fees as
    overdraft transactions declined. Mortgage banking revenue
    decreased $25 million (52.1 percent) due to an
    unfavorable net change in the valuation of MSRs and related
    economic hedging activities, partially offset by increases in
    mortgage servicing income and production revenue. Net securities
    gains (losses) were lower than a year ago by $257 million
    due to the impact of impairment charges primarily related to
    structured investment securities. ATM processing services
    increased by $11 million (13.1 percent) due to growth
    in transaction volumes and business expansion. Treasury
    Management fees increased $11 million (9.4 percent)
    due primarily to the favorable impact of declining rates on
    customer compensating balances. Commercial products revenue
    increased $10 million (8.3 percent) year-over-year due
    to higher foreign exchange revenue, letters of credit and other
    commercial loan fees. Other income increased $15 million
    (32.6 percent) year-over-year, as the Visa Gain and the net
    change in market valuation losses were partially offset by the
    adverse impact of higher retail lease residual losses and lower
    equity investment revenue.

Noninterest expense was $1,960 million in the fourth
    quarter of 2008, a decrease of $8 million (.4 percent)
    from the fourth quarter of 2007. Noninterest expense was
    relatively flat year-over-year as higher costs associated with
    business initiatives designed to expand the Company s
    geographical presence and strengthen customer relationships,
    including acquisitions and investments in relationship

Table 22        FOURTH
    QUARTER RESULTS 

(a)

Interest
    and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis
    utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent.   

56     U.S. BANCORP

managers, branch initiatives and Payment Services 
    businesses, were offset by a $215 million Visa Charge
    recognized in the fourth quarter of 2007. Compensation expense
    increased $80 million (11.6 percent) over the same
    period of 2007 due to costs for acquired businesses, growth in
    ongoing bank operations and other initiatives, and the adoption
    of SFAS 157 in 2008. Net occupancy and equipment expense
    increased $14 million (7.4 percent) from the fourth
    quarter of 2007, primarily due to acquisitions, as well as
    branch-based and other business expansion initiatives. Marketing
    and business development expense increased $21 million
    (30.4 percent) year-over-year due to the timing of Consumer
    Banking and retail payment product marketing programs and a
    national advertising campaign. Technology and communications
    expense increased $8 million (5.4 percent)
    year-over-year, primarily due to increased processing volumes
    and business expansion. These increases were offset by a
    decrease in other expense of $142 million
    (27.5 percent), due primarily to the $215 million Visa
    Charge recognized in the fourth quarter of 2007, partially
    offset by increased costs for other real estate owned,
    tax-advantaged projects, acquisitions and litigation.

The provision for credit losses for the fourth quarter of 2008
    was $1,267 million, or an increase of $1,042 million
    over the same period of 2007. The provision for credit losses
    exceeded net charge-offs by $635 million in the fourth
    quarter of 2008. The increase in the provision for credit losses
    from a year ago reflected continuing stress in the residential
    real estate markets, including homebuilding and related supplier
    industries, driven by declining home prices in most geographic
    regions. It also reflected deteriorating economic conditions and
    the corresponding impact on the commercial and consumer loan
    portfolios. Net charge-offs in the fourth quarter of 2008 were
    $632 million, compared with net charge-offs of
    $225 million during the fourth quarter of 2007.

The provision for income taxes for the fourth quarter of 2008
    decreased to an effective tax rate of 7.6 percent from an
    effective tax rate of 30.7 percent in the fourth quarter of
    2007. The decrease in the effective rate for the fourth quarter
    of 2008, compared with the same period of the prior year,
    reflected the marginal impact of lower pre-tax income, higher
    tax-exempt income from investment securities and insurance
    products, and incremental tax credits from affordable housing
    and other tax-advantaged investments.

LINE OF BUSINESS
    FINANCIAL REVIEW

The Company s major lines of business are Wholesale
    Banking, Consumer Banking, Wealth Management  
    Securities Services, Payment Services, and Treasury and
    Corporate Support. These operating segments are components of
    the Company about which financial information is available and
    is evaluated regularly in deciding how to allocate resources and
    assess performance.

Basis for
    Financial Presentation
       Business line results
    are derived from the Company s business unit profitability
    reporting systems by specifically attributing managed balance
    sheet assets, deposits and other liabilities and their related
    income or expense. Goodwill and other intangible assets are
    assigned to the lines of business based on the mix of business
    of the acquired entity. Within the Company, capital levels are
    evaluated and managed centrally; however, capital is allocated
    to the operating segments to support evaluation of business
    performance. Business lines are allocated capital on a
    risk-adjusted basis considering economic and regulatory capital
    requirements. Generally, the determination of the amount of
    capital allocated to each business line includes credit and
    operational capital allocations following a Basel II
    regulatory framework adjusted for regulatory Tier 1
    leverage requirements. Interest income and expense is determined
    based on the assets and liabilities managed by the business
    line. Because funding and asset liability management is a
    central function, funds transfer-pricing methodologies are
    utilized to allocate a cost of funds used or credit for funds
    provided to all business line assets and liabilities,
    respectively, using a matched funding concept. Also, each
    business unit is allocated the taxable-equivalent benefit of
    tax-exempt products. The residual effect on net interest income
    of asset/liability management activities is included in Treasury
    and Corporate Support. Noninterest income and expenses directly
    managed by each business line, including fees, service charges,
    salaries and benefits, and other direct revenues and costs are
    accounted for within each segment s financial results in a
    manner similar to the consolidated financial statements.
    Occupancy costs are allocated based on utilization of facilities
    by the lines of business. Generally, operating losses are
    charged to the line of business when the loss event is realized
    in a manner similar to a loan charge-off. Noninterest expenses
    incurred by centrally managed operations or business lines that
    directly support another business line s operations are
    charged to the applicable business line based on its utilization
    of those services primarily measured by the volume of customer
    activities, number of employees or other relevant factors. These
    allocated expenses are reported as net shared services expense
    within noninterest expense. Certain activities that do not
    directly support the operations of the lines of business or for
    which the lines of business are not considered financially
    accountable in evaluating their performance are not charged to
    the lines of business. The income or expenses associated with
    these corporate activities is reported within the Treasury and
    Corporate Support line of business. The provision for credit
    losses within the Wholesale Banking, Consumer Banking, Wealth

U.S. BANCORP   57 

Management   Securities Services and Payment Services
    lines of business is based on net charge-offs, while Treasury
    and Corporate Support reflects the residual component of the
    Company s total consolidated provision for credit losses
    determined in accordance with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States. Income taxes are assessed to each
    line of business at a standard tax rate with the residual tax
    expense or benefit to arrive at the consolidated effective tax
    rate included in Treasury and Corporate Support.

Designations, assignments and allocations change from time to
    time as management systems are enhanced, methods of evaluating
    performance or product lines change or business segments are
    realigned to better respond to the Company s diverse
    customer base. During 2008, certain organization and methodology
    changes were made and, accordingly, 2007 results were restated
    and presented on a comparable basis. Due to organizational and
    methodology changes, the Company s basis of financial
    presentation differed in 2006. The presentation of comparative
    business line results for 2006 is not practical and has not been
    provided.

Wholesale Banking
       Wholesale Banking offers
    lending, equipment finance and small-ticket leasing, depository,
    treasury management, capital markets, foreign exchange,
    international trade services and other financial services to
    middle market, large corporate, commercial real estate and
    public sector clients. Wholesale Banking contributed

Table 23        LINE
    OF BUSINESS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 

* Not
    meaningful  

58     U.S. BANCORP

$1,017 million of the Company s net income in 2008, or
    a decrease of $77 million (7.0 percent), compared with
    2007. The decrease was primarily driven by an increase in the
    provision for credit losses and higher noninterest expense,
    partially offset by higher total net revenue.

Total net revenue increased $248 million (9.1 percent)
    in 2008, compared with 2007. Net interest income, on a
    taxable-equivalent basis, increased $268 million
    (14.5 percent), driven by growth in earning assets and
    deposits, partially offset by declining margins in the loan
    portfolio and a decrease in the margin benefit of deposits.
    Noninterest income decreased $20 million (2.3 percent)
    primarily due to market-related valuation losses and lower
    earnings from equity investments, including an investment in a
    commercial real estate business, partially offset by higher
    commercial lending-related and capital markets fees and
    increases in treasury management and foreign exchange revenue.

Total noninterest expense increased $102 million
    (10.7 percent) in 2008, compared with 2007. The increase
    was primarily due to higher compensation and employee benefits
    expenses attributable to the expansion of the business
    line s national corporate banking presence, investments to
    enhance customer relationship management, and the Mellon
    1st Business Bank acquisition. The provision for credit
    losses increased $266 million in 2008, compared

U.S. BANCORP   59 

with 2007. The unfavorable change was primarily due to continued
    credit deterioration in the homebuilding and commercial home
    supplier industries. Nonperforming assets were
    $1,250 million at December 31, 2008, compared with
    $336 million at December 31, 2007. Nonperforming
    assets as a percentage of period-end loans were
    1.94 percent at December 31, 2008, compared with
    .60 percent at December 31, 2007. Refer to the
     Corporate Risk Profile  section for further
    information on factors impacting the credit quality of the loan
    portfolios.

Consumer Banking
       Consumer Banking
    delivers products and services through banking offices,
    telephone servicing and sales, on-line services, direct mail and
    ATM processing. It encompasses community banking, metropolitan
    banking, in-store banking, small business banking, consumer
    lending, mortgage banking, consumer finance, workplace banking,
    student banking and
     24-hour 
    banking. Consumer Banking contributed $1,203 million of the
    Company s net income in 2008, or a decrease of
    $627 million (34.3 percent), compared with 2007.
    Within Consumer Banking, the retail banking division contributed
    $1,090 million of the total net income in 2008, or a
    decrease of 36.8 percent, compared with the prior year.
    Mortgage banking contributed $113 million of the business
    line s net income in 2008, or an increase of
    6.6 percent, compared with the prior year.

Total net revenue decreased $185 million (3.0 percent)
    in 2008, compared with 2007. Net interest income, on a
    taxable-equivalent basis, increased $6 million
    (.2 percent) in 2008, compared with 2007, as increases in
    average loan balances were offset by slightly lower deposit
    balances and a decline in the margin benefit of deposits, given
    the declining interest rate environment. The increase in average
    loan balances reflected core growth in most loan categories,
    with the largest increases in residential mortgages and retail
    loans. In addition, average loan balances increased due to the
    Downey and PFF acquisitions, reflected primarily in covered
    assets. Residential mortgages were higher due to an increase in
    mortgage banking activity. The favorable change in retail loans
    was principally driven by an increase in installment products,
    home equity lines and federally guaranteed student loan balances
    due to both the transfer of balances from loans held for sale
    and a portfolio purchase. The year-over-year decrease in average
    deposits primarily reflected a reduction in time deposits,
    partially offset by higher interest checking and savings
    products. Average time deposit balances declined
    $1.2 billion (6.0 percent) in 2008, compared with
    2007, and reflected the Company s funding and pricing
    decisions and competition for these deposits by other financial
    institutions that have more limited access to the wholesale
    funding sources given the current market environment. Fee-based
    noninterest income decreased $191 million
    (8.7 percent) in 2008, compared with 2007. The decline in
    fee-based revenue was driven by lower retail lease revenue,
    related to higher retail lease residual losses, partially offset
    by growth in revenue from ATM processing services, mortgage
    banking revenue, and higher deposit service charges.

Total noninterest expense increased $340 million
    (11.7 percent) in 2008, compared with 2007. The increase
    included the net addition, including the impact of recent
    acquisitions, of 141 in-store branches, 126 traditional branches
    and 6 on-site branches at December 31, 2008, compared with
    December 31, 2007. In addition, the increase was primarily
    attributable to higher compensation and employee benefit
    expense, which reflected business investments in customer
    service and various promotional activities, including further
    deployment of the PowerBank initiative, the adoption of
    SFAS 157 and higher credit-related costs associated with
    other real estate owned and foreclosures.

The provision for credit losses increased $463 million in
    2008, compared with 2007. The increase was attributable to
    higher net charge-offs, reflecting portfolio growth and credit
    deterioration in residential mortgages, home equity and other
    installment and consumer loan portfolios from a year ago. As a
    percentage of average loans outstanding, net charge-offs were
    .96 percent in 2008, compared with .43 percent in
    2007. Commercial and commercial real estate loan net charge-offs
    increased $57 million in 2008, compared with 2007. Retail
    loan and residential mortgage net charge-offs increased
    $406 million in 2008, compared with 2007. In addition,
    there were $5 million of net charge-offs in 2008 related to
    covered assets. Nonperforming assets were $1,277 million at
    December 31, 2008, compared with $326 million at
    December 31, 2007. Nonperforming assets as a percentage of
    period-end loans were 1.38 percent at December 31,
    2008, compared with .44 percent at December 31, 2007.
    Refer to the  Corporate Risk Profile  section for
    further information on factors impacting the credit quality of
    the loan portfolios.

Wealth
    Management   Securities Services
       Wealth
    Management   Securities Services provides trust,
    private banking, financial advisory, investment management,
    retail brokerage services, insurance, custody and mutual fund
    servicing through five businesses: Wealth Management, Corporate
    Trust, FAF Advisors, Institutional Trust   Custody and
    Fund Services. Wealth Management   Securities
    Services contributed $541 million of the Company s net
    income in 2008, an increase of $4 million
    (.7 percent), compared with 2007.

Total net revenue increased $41 million (2.2 percent)
    in 2008, compared with 2007. Net interest income, on a
    taxable-equivalent basis, increased $12 million
    (2.5 percent) in 2008, compared with 2007. The increase in
    net interest

60     U.S. BANCORP

income was primarily due to deposit growth, partially offset by
    the reduction in the margin benefit of deposits. Noninterest
    income increased $29 million (2.1 percent) in 2008,
    compared with 2007, primarily driven by the favorable impact of
    a $107 million market valuation loss recorded in 2007 and
    core account growth, partially offset by the impact of
    unfavorable equity market conditions compared with a year ago.

Total noninterest expense increased $26 million
    (2.6 percent) in 2008, compared with 2007. The increase in
    noninterest expense was primarily due to higher compensation and
    employee benefits expenses and legal-related costs, partially
    offset by lower other intangibles expense.

Payment Services
       Payment Services
    includes consumer and business credit cards, stored-value cards,
    debit cards, corporate and purchasing card services, consumer
    lines of credit and merchant processing. Payment Services 
    offerings are highly inter-related with banking products and
    services of the other lines of business and rely on access to
    the bank subsidiary s settlement network, lower cost
    funding available to the Company, cross-selling opportunities
    and operating efficiencies. Payment Services contributed
    $1,068 million of the Company s net income in 2008,
    unchanged from 2007. Growth in total net revenue, driven by loan
    growth and higher transaction volumes, was partially offset by
    an increase in total noninterest expense and a higher provision
    for credit losses.

Total net revenue increased $427 million
    (12.1 percent) in 2008, compared with 2007. Net interest
    income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, increased
    $270 million (35.3 percent) in 2008, compared with
    2007, primarily due to strong growth in credit card balances and
    the timing of asset re-pricing in a declining rate environment.
    Noninterest income increased $157 million
    (5.7 percent) in 2008, compared with 2007, as increases in
    fee-based revenue were driven by account growth, higher
    transaction volumes and business expansion initiatives.

Total noninterest expense increased $137 million
    (9.4 percent) in 2008, compared with 2007, due primarily to
    new business initiatives, including costs associated with
    transaction processing and acquisitions.

The provision for credit losses increased $292 million
    (72.3 percent) in 2008, compared with 2007, due to higher
    net charge-offs, which reflected average retail credit card
    portfolio growth, higher delinquency rates and changing economic
    conditions from a year ago. As a percentage of average loans
    outstanding, net charge-offs were 3.96 percent in 2008,
    compared with 2.73 percent in 2007.

Treasury and
    Corporate Support
       Treasury and Corporate
    Support includes the Company s investment portfolios,
    funding, capital management, asset securitization, interest rate
    risk management, the net effect of transfer pricing related to
    average balances and the residual aggregate of those expenses
    associated with corporate activities that are managed on a
    consolidated basis. Treasury and Corporate Support recorded a
    net loss of $883 million in 2008, compared with a net loss
    of $205 million the prior year.

Total net revenue increased $86 million in 2008, compared
    with 2007. Net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent basis,
    increased $546 million in 2008, compared with 2007,
    reflecting the impact of the declining rate environment,
    wholesale funding decisions and the Company s
    asset/liability position. Noninterest income decreased
    $460 million in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to
    the impairment charges for structured investment securities,
    perpetual preferred stock (including the stock of GSEs), and
    certain non-agency mortgage backed securities, as well as the
    transition impact of adopting SFAS 157 during the first
    quarter of 2008, partially offset by the impact of the
    $551 million of Visa Gains recognized in 2008.

Total noninterest expense decreased $177 million
    (26.7 percent) in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due
    to the $330 million Visa Charge recognized in 2007, offset
    by higher compensation and employee benefits expense, higher
    litigation costs, incremental costs associated with investments
    in tax-advantaged projects and a charitable contribution made to
    the U.S. Bancorp Foundation.

The provision for credit losses for this business unit
    represents the residual aggregate of the net credit losses
    allocated to the reportable business units and the
    Company s recorded provision determined in accordance with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
    The provision for credit losses increased $1,278 million in
    2008, compared with the prior year, driven by incremental
    provision expense recorded in 2008, reflecting deterioration in
    the credit quality within the loan portfolios related to stress
    in the residential real estate markets, including homebuilding
    and related supplier industries, and the impact of economic
    conditions on the loan portfolios. Refer to the  Corporate
    Risk Profile  section for further information on the
    provision for credit losses, nonperforming assets and factors
    considered by the Company in assessing the credit quality of the
    loan portfolio and establishing the allowance for credit losses.

Income taxes are assessed to each line of business at a
    managerial tax rate of 36.4 percent with the residual tax
    expense or benefit to arrive at the consolidated effective tax
    rate included in Treasury and Corporate Support. The
    consolidated effective tax rate of the Company was
    27.0 percent in 2008, compared with 30.3 percent in 2007.
    The decrease in the effective tax rate from 2007 reflected the

U.S. BANCORP   61 

marginal impact of lower pre-tax income, higher tax-exempt
    income from investment securities and insurance products, and
    incremental tax credits from affordable housing and other
    tax-advantaged investments.

ACCOUNTING CHANGES

Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    discusses accounting standards adopted in the current year, as
    well as accounting standards recently issued but not yet
    required to be adopted, and the expected impact of these changes
    in accounting standards. To the extent the adoption of new
    accounting standards affects the Company s financial
    condition or results of operations, the impacts are discussed in
    the applicable section(s) of the Management s Discussion
    and Analysis and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING
    POLICIES

The accounting and reporting policies of the Company comply with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
    and conform to general practices within the banking industry.
    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
    make estimates and assumptions. The Company s financial
    position and results of operations can be affected by these
    estimates and assumptions, which are integral to understanding
    the Company s financial statements. Critical accounting
    policies are those policies management believes are the most
    important to the portrayal of the Company s financial
    condition and results, and require management to make estimates
    that are difficult, subjective or complex. Most accounting
    policies are not considered by management to be critical
    accounting policies. Several factors are considered in
    determining whether or not a policy is critical in the
    preparation of financial statements. These factors include,
    among other things, whether the estimates are significant to the
    financial statements, the nature of the estimates, the ability
    to readily validate the estimates with other information
    including third-parties or available prices, and sensitivity of
    the estimates to changes in economic conditions and whether
    alternative accounting methods may be utilized under generally
    accepted accounting principles. Management has discussed the
    development and the selection of critical accounting policies
    with the Company s Audit Committee.

Significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1 of
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Those policies
    considered to be critical accounting policies are described
    below.

Allowance for
    Credit Losses    The
    allowance for credit losses is established to provide for
    probable losses incurred in the Company s credit portfolio.
    The methods utilized to estimate the allowance for credit
    losses, key assumptions and quantitative and qualitative
    information considered by management in determining the adequacy
    of the allowance for credit losses are discussed in the
     Credit Risk Management  section.

Management s evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance
    for credit losses is often the most critical of accounting
    estimates for a banking institution. It is an inherently
    subjective process impacted by many factors as discussed
    throughout the Management s Discussion and Analysis section
    of the Annual Report. Although risk management practices,
    methodologies and other tools are utilized to determine each
    element of the allowance, degrees of imprecision exist in these
    measurement tools due in part to subjective judgments involved
    and an inherent lagging of credit quality measurements relative
    to the stage of the business cycle. Even determining the stage
    of the business cycle is highly subjective. As discussed in the
     Analysis and Determination of Allowance for Credit
    Losses  section, management considers the effect of
    imprecision and many other factors in determining the allowance
    for credit losses. If not considered, incurred losses in the
    portfolio related to imprecision and other subjective factors
    could have a dramatic adverse impact on the liquidity and
    financial viability of a bank.

Given the many subjective factors affecting the credit
    portfolio, changes in the allowance for credit losses may not
    directly coincide with changes in the risk ratings of the credit
    portfolio reflected in the risk rating process. This is in part
    due to the timing of the risk rating process in relation to
    changes in the business cycle, the exposure and mix of loans
    within risk rating categories, levels of nonperforming loans and
    the timing of charge-offs and recoveries. For example, the
    amount of loans within specific risk ratings may change,
    providing a leading indicator of improving credit quality, while
    nonperforming loans and net charge-offs continue at elevated
    levels. Also, inherent loss ratios, determined through migration
    analysis and historical loss performance over the estimated
    business cycle of a loan, may not change to the same degree as
    net charge-offs. Because risk ratings and inherent loss ratios
    primarily drive the allowance specifically allocated to
    commercial loans, the amount of the allowance for commercial and
    commercial real estate loans might decline; however, the degree
    of change differs somewhat from the level of changes in
    nonperforming loans and net charge-offs. Also, management would
    maintain an adequate allowance for credit losses by increasing
    the allowance during periods of economic uncertainty or changes
    in the business cycle.

Some factors considered in determining the adequacy of the
    allowance for credit losses are quantifiable while other

62     U.S. BANCORP

factors require qualitative judgment. Management conducts an
    analysis with respect to the accuracy of risk ratings and the
    volatility of inherent losses, and utilizes this analysis along
    with qualitative factors, including uncertainty in the economy
    from changes in unemployment rates, the level of bankruptcies
    and concentration risks, including risks associated with the
    weakened housing market and highly leveraged enterprise-value
    credits, in determining the overall level of the allowance for
    credit losses. The Company s determination of the allowance
    for commercial and commercial real estate loans is sensitive to
    the assigned credit risk ratings and inherent loss rates at
    December 31, 2008. In the event that 10 percent of
    loans within these portfolios experienced downgrades of two risk
    categories, the allowance for commercial and commercial real
    estate would increase by approximately $206 million at
    December 31, 2008. In the event that inherent loss or
    estimated loss rates for these portfolios increased by
    10 percent, the allowance determined for commercial and
    commercial real estate would increase by approximately
    $126 million at December 31, 2008. The Company s
    determination of the allowance for residential and retail loans
    is sensitive to changes in estimated loss rates. In the event
    that estimated loss rates increased by 10 percent, the
    allowance for residential mortgages and retail loans would
    increase by approximately $176 million at December 31,
    2008. Because several quantitative and qualitative factors are
    considered in determining the allowance for credit losses, these
    sensitivity analyses do not necessarily reflect the nature and
    extent of future changes in the allowance for credit losses.
    They are intended to provide insights into the impact of adverse
    changes in risk rating and inherent losses and do not imply any
    expectation of future deterioration in the risk rating or loss
    rates. Given current processes employed by the Company,
    management believes the risk ratings and inherent loss rates
    currently assigned are appropriate. It is possible that others,
    given the same information, may at any point in time reach
    different reasonable conclusions that could be significant to
    the Company s financial statements. Refer to the
     Analysis and Determination of the Allowance for Credit
    Losses  section for further information.

Fair Value
    Estimates    A portion of
    the Company s assets and liabilities are carried at fair
    value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, with changes in fair
    value recorded either through earnings or other comprehensive
    income (loss) in accordance with applicable accounting
    principles generally accepted in the United States. These
    include all of the Company s trading securities,
    available-for-sale securities, derivatives, MSRs and certain
    MLHFS. The estimation of fair value also affects other loans
    held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair
    value. The determination of fair value is important for certain
    other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment
    using fair value estimates, including goodwill and other
    intangible assets, assets acquired in business combinations,
    impaired loans and securities, other real estate owned and other
    repossessed assets.

Fair value is generally defined as the exit price at which an
    asset or liability could be exchanged in a current transaction
    between willing, unrelated parties, other than in a forced or
    liquidation sale. Fair value is based on quoted market prices in
    an active market, or if market prices are not available, is
    estimated using models employing techniques such as matrix
    pricing or discounting expected cash flows. The significant
    assumptions used in the models, which include assumptions for
    interest rates, discount rates, prepayments and credit losses,
    are independently verified against observable market data where
    possible. Where observable market data is not available, the
    estimate of fair value becomes more subjective and involves a
    high degree of judgment. In this circumstance, fair value is
    estimated based on management s judgment regarding the
    value that market participants would assign to the asset or
    liability. This valuation process takes into consideration
    factors such as market illiquidity. Imprecision in estimating
    these factors can impact the amount recorded on the balance
    sheet for a particular asset or liability with related impacts
    to earnings or other comprehensive income (loss).

When available, trading and available-for-sale securities are
    valued based on quoted market prices. However, certain
    securities are traded less actively and therefore, may not be
    able to be valued based on quoted market prices. The
    determination of fair value may require benchmarking to similar
    instruments or performing a discounted cash flow analysis using
    estimates of future cash flows and prepayment, interest and
    default rates. An example is interests held in entities
    collateralized by mortgage
     and/or  debt
    obligations as part of a structured investment. For more
    information on investment securities, refer to Note 5 of
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

As few derivative contracts are listed on an exchange, the
    majority of the Company s derivative positions are valued
    using valuation techniques that use readily observable market
    parameters. Certain derivatives, however, must be valued using
    techniques that include unobservable parameters. For these
    instruments, the significant assumptions must be estimated and
    therefore, are subject to judgment. These instruments are
    normally traded less actively. An example includes certain
    long-dated interest rate swaps. Table 18 provides a summary
    of the Company s derivative positions.

Refer to Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for additional information regarding estimations of
    fair value.

U.S. BANCORP   63 

Mortgage
    Servicing Rights    MSRs
    are capitalized as separate assets when loans are sold and
    servicing is retained or may be purchased from others. MSRs are
    initially recorded at fair value and remeasured at each
    subsequent reporting date. Because MSRs do not trade in an
    active market with readily observable prices, the Company
    determines the fair value by estimating the present value of the
    asset s future cash flows utilizing market-based prepayment
    rates, discount rates, and other assumptions validated through
    comparison to trade information, industry surveys and
    independent third party appraisals. Changes in the fair value of
    MSRs are recorded in earnings during the period in which they
    occur. Risks inherent in the MSRs valuation include higher than
    expected prepayment rates
     and/or 
    delayed receipt of cash flows. The Company may utilize
    derivatives, including futures and options contracts to mitigate
    the valuation risk. The estimated sensitivity to changes in
    interest rates of the fair value of the MSRs portfolio and the
    related derivative instruments at December 31, 2008, to an
    immediate 25 and 50 basis point downward movement in
    interest rates would be a decrease of approximately
    $7 million and $4 million, respectively. An upward
    movement in interest rates at December 31, 2008, of 25 and
    50 basis points would increase the value of the MSRs and
    related derivative instruments by approximately $6 million
    and $12 million, respectively. Refer to Note 10 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
    information regarding MSRs.

Goodwill and
    Other Intangibles    The
    Company records all assets and liabilities acquired in purchase
    acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangibles, at fair
    value. Goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are not amortized
    but are subject, at a minimum, to annual tests for impairment.
    Under certain situations, interim impairment tests may be
    required if events occur or circumstances change that would more
    likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting segment
    below its carrying amount. Other intangible assets are amortized
    over their estimated useful lives using straight-line and
    accelerated methods and are subject to impairment if events or
    circumstances indicate a possible inability to realize the
    carrying amount.

The initial recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets
    and subsequent impairment analysis require management to make
    subjective judgments concerning estimates of how the acquired
    assets will perform in the future using valuation methods
    including discounted cash flow analysis. Additionally, estimated
    cash flows may extend beyond ten years and, by their nature, are
    difficult to determine over an extended timeframe. Events and
    factors that may significantly affect the estimates include,
    among others, competitive forces, customer behaviors and
    attrition, changes in revenue growth trends, cost structures,
    technology, changes in discount rates and specific industry and
    market conditions. In determining the reasonableness of cash
    flow estimates, the Company reviews historical performance of
    the underlying assets or similar assets in an effort to assess
    and validate assumptions utilized in its estimates.

In assessing the fair value of reporting units, the Company may
    consider the stage of the current business cycle and potential
    changes in market conditions in estimating the timing and extent
    of future cash flows. Also, management often utilizes other
    information to validate the reasonableness of its valuations
    including public market comparables, and multiples of recent
    mergers and acquisitions of similar businesses. Valuation
    multiples may be based on revenue, price-to-earnings and
    tangible capital ratios of comparable public companies and
    business segments. These multiples may be adjusted to consider
    competitive differences including size, operating leverage and
    other factors. The carrying amount of a reporting unit is
    determined based on the capital required to support the
    reporting unit s activities including its tangible and
    intangible assets. The determination of a reporting unit s
    capital allocation requires management judgment and considers
    many factors including the regulatory capital regulations and
    capital characteristics of comparable public companies in
    relevant industry sectors. In certain circumstances, management
    will engage a third-party to independently validate its
    assessment of the fair value of its business segments.

The Company s annual assessment of potential goodwill
    impairment was completed during the second quarter of 2008.
    Based on the results of this assessment, no goodwill impairment
    was recognized. Because of current economic conditions the
    Company continues to monitor goodwill and other intangible
    assets for impairment indicators throughout the year.

Income Taxes
       The Company estimates
    income tax expense based on amounts expected to be owed to
    various tax jurisdictions. Currently, the Company files tax
    returns in approximately 145 federal, state and local domestic
    jurisdictions and 13 foreign jurisdictions. The estimated income
    tax expense is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
    Accrued taxes represent the net estimated amount due or to be
    received from taxing jurisdictions either currently or in the
    future and are reported in other assets or other liabilities on
    the Consolidated Balance Sheet. In estimating accrued taxes, the
    Company assesses the relative merits and risks of the
    appropriate tax treatment considering statutory, judicial and
    regulatory guidance in the context of the tax position. Because
    of the complexity of tax laws and regulations, interpretation
    can be difficult and subject to legal judgment

64     U.S. BANCORP

given specific facts and circumstances. It is possible that
    others, given the same information, may at any point in time
    reach different reasonable conclusions regarding the estimated
    amounts of accrued taxes.

Changes in the estimate of accrued taxes occur periodically due
    to changes in tax rates, interpretations of tax laws, the status
    of examinations being conducted by various taxing authorities,
    and newly enacted statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance
    that impact the relative merits and risks of tax positions.
    These changes, when they occur, affect accrued taxes and can be
    significant to the operating results of the Company. Refer to
    Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    for additional information regarding income taxes.

CONTROLS AND
    PROCEDURES

Under the supervision and with the participation of the
    Company s management, including its principal executive
    officer and principal financial officer, the Company has
    evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of its
    disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange
    Act )). Based upon this evaluation, the principal executive
    officer and principal financial officer have concluded that, as
    of the end of the period covered by this report, the
    Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.

During the most recently completed fiscal quarter, there was no
    change made in the Company s internal controls over
    financial reporting (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Exchange Act) that has materially affected, or is
    reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s
    internal control over financial reporting.

The annual report of the Company s management on internal
    control over financial reporting is provided on page 111.
    The attestation report of Ernst   Young LLP, the
    Company s independent accountants, regarding the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting is
    provided on page 113.

U.S. BANCORP   65 

U.S. Bancorp 
    Consolidated Balance Sheet

See Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.  

66     U.S. BANCORP

U.S. Bancorp 
    Consolidated Statement of Income

See Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.  

U.S. BANCORP   67 

U.S. Bancorp 
    Consolidated Statement of Shareholders  Equity

See Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.  

68     U.S. BANCORP

U.S. Bancorp 
    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

See Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.  

U.S. BANCORP   69 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Note 1
        
        SIGNIFICANT
    ACCOUNTING
    POLICIES   

U.S. Bancorp and its subsidiaries (the  Company )
    is a multi-state financial services holding company
    headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Company provides a
    full range of financial services including lending and
    depository services through banking offices principally in
    24 states. The Company also engages in credit card,
    merchant, and ATM processing, mortgage banking, insurance, trust
    and investment management, brokerage, and leasing activities
    principally in domestic markets.

Basis of
    Presentation    The
    consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
    Company and its subsidiaries and all variable interest entities
    ( VIEs ) for which the Company is the primary
    beneficiary. Consolidation eliminates all significant
    intercompany accounts and transactions. Certain items in prior
    periods have been reclassified to conform to the current
    presentation.

Uses of Estimates
       The preparation of
    financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
    accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
    assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial
    statements and accompanying notes. Actual experience could
    differ from those estimates.

BUSINESS
    SEGMENTS  

Within the Company, financial performance is measured by major
    lines of business based on the products and services provided to
    customers through its distribution channels. The Company has
    five reportable operating segments:

Wholesale Banking
       Wholesale Banking offers
    lending, equipment finance and small-ticket leasing, depository,
    treasury management, capital markets, foreign exchange,
    international trade services and other financial services to
    middle market, large corporate, commercial real estate and
    public sector clients.

Consumer Banking
       Consumer Banking
    delivers products and services through banking offices,
    telephone servicing and sales, on-line services, direct mail and
    ATM processing. It encompasses community banking, metropolitan
    banking, in-store banking, small business banking, consumer
    lending, mortgage banking, consumer finance, workplace banking,
    student banking and
     24-hour 
    banking.

Wealth
    Management   Securities Services
       Wealth
    Management   Securities Services provides trust,
    private banking, financial advisory, investment management,
    retail brokerage services, insurance, custody and mutual fund
    servicing through five businesses: Wealth Management, Corporate
    Trust, FAF Advisors, Institutional Trust   Custody and
    Fund Services.

Payment Services
       Payment Services
    includes consumer and business credit cards, stored-value cards,
    debit cards, corporate and purchasing card services, consumer
    lines of credit and merchant processing.

Treasury and
    Corporate Support
       Treasury and Corporate
    Support includes the Company s investment portfolios,
    funding, capital management, asset securitization, interest rate
    risk management, the net effect of transfer pricing related to
    average balances and the residual aggregate of those expenses
    associated with corporate activities that are managed on a
    consolidated basis.

Segment Results
       Accounting policies for
    the lines of business are the same as those used in preparation
    of the consolidated financial statements with respect to
    activities specifically attributable to each business line.
    However, the preparation of business line results requires
    management to allocate funding costs and benefits, expenses and
    other financial elements to each line of business. For details
    of these methodologies and segment results, see  Basis for
    Financial Presentation  and Table 23  Line of Business
    Financial Performance  included in Management s
    Discussion and Analysis which is incorporated by reference into
    these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

SECURITIES  

Realized gains or losses on securities are determined on a trade
    date basis based on the specific amortized cost of the
    investments sold.

Trading
    Securities    Debt and
    equity securities held for resale are classified as trading
    securities and reported at fair value. Realized gains or losses
    are reported in noninterest income.

Available-for-sale
    Securities    These
    securities are not trading securities but may be sold before
    maturity in response to changes in the Company s interest
    rate risk profile, funding needs, demand for collateralized
    deposits by public entities or other reasons. Available-for-sale
    securities are carried at fair value with unrealized net gains
    or losses reported within other comprehensive income (loss) in
    shareholders  equity. Declines in fair value considered
    other-than-temporary, if any, are reported in noninterest income.

70     U.S. BANCORP

Held-to-maturity
    Securities    Debt
    securities for which the Company has the positive intent and
    ability to hold to maturity are reported at historical cost
    adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of
    discounts. Declines in fair value considered
    other-than-temporary, if any, are reported in noninterest income.

Securities
    Purchased Under Agreements to Resell and Securities Sold Under
    Agreements to Repurchase
       Securities purchased
    under agreements to resell and securities sold under agreements
    to repurchase are generally accounted for as collateralized
    financing transactions and are recorded at the amounts at which
    the securities were acquired or sold, plus accrued interest. The
    fair value of collateral received is continually monitored and
    additional collateral is obtained or requested to be returned to
    the Company as deemed appropriate.

EQUITY INVESTMENTS
    IN OPERATING
    ENTITIES  

Equity investments in public entities in which the
    Company s ownership is less than 20 percent are
    accounted for as available-for-sale securities and carried at
    fair value. Similar investments in private entities are
    accounted for using the cost method. Investments in entities
    where the Company has a significant influence (generally between
    20 percent and 50 percent ownership) but does not
    control the entity are accounted for using the equity method.
    Limited partnerships and limited liability companies where the
    Company s ownership interest is greater than 5 percent
    are accounted for using the equity method. All equity
    investments are evaluated for impairment at least annually and
    more frequently if certain criteria are met.

LOANS  

The Company s accounting methods for loans differ depending
    on whether the loans are originated or purchased, and for
    purchased loans, whether the loans were acquired at a discount
    related to evidence of credit deterioration since date of
    origination.

Originated Loans
    Held for Investment
       Loans the Company
    originates are reported at the principal amount outstanding, net
    of unearned income, net deferred loan fees or costs, and any
    direct principal charge-offs. Interest income is accrued on the
    unpaid principal balances as earned. Loan and commitment fees
    and certain direct loan origination costs are deferred and
    recognized over the life of the loan
     and/or 
    commitment period as yield adjustments.

Purchased Loans
       Loans acquired at a
    discount for which it is probable all contractual payments will
    not be received are accounted for under AICPA Statement of
    Position
     03-3 
     ( SOP 03-3 ), 
     Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired
    in a Transfer . Under
     SOP 03-3, 
    those loans are recorded at fair value at acquisition. Credit
    discounts are included in the determination of fair value,
    therefore, an allowance for loan losses is not recorded at the
    purchase date. Revolving loans, including lines of credit and
    credit cards loans, and leases are excluded from
     SOP 03-3 
    accounting.

In determining the acquisition date fair value of loans subject
    to
     SOP 03-3, 
    and in subsequent accounting, the Company generally aggregates
    purchased consumer loans into pools of loans with common risk
    characteristics, while accounting for commercial loans
    individually. Expected cash flows at the purchase date in excess
    of the fair value of loans are recorded as interest income over
    the life of the loans if the timing and amount of the future
    cash flows is reasonably estimable. Subsequent to the purchase
    date, increases in cash flows over those expected at the
    purchase date are recognized as interest income prospectively.
    Decreases in expected cash flows after the purchase date are
    recognized by recording an allowance for credit losses.

For purchased loans not subject to
     SOP 03-3, 
    differences between the purchase price and the unpaid principal
    balance at the date of acquisition are recorded in interest
    income over the life of the loan. Incurred credit losses are
    recorded at the purchase date through an allowance for credit
    losses. Decreases in expected cash flows after the purchase date
    are recognized by recording an additional allowance for credit
    losses.

Covered Assets
       Assets covered under
    loss sharing or similar credit protection agreements with the
    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) are
    reported in loans inclusive of the fair value of expected
    reimbursement cash flows the Company expects to receive from the
    FDIC under those agreements. Similarly, credit losses on those
    assets are determined net of the expected reimbursement from the
    FDIC.

Commitments to
    Extend Credit    Unfunded
    residential mortgage loan commitments entered into in connection
    with mortgage banking activities are considered derivatives and
    recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair
    value recorded in income. All other unfunded loan commitments
    are generally related to providing credit facilities to
    customers of the Company and are not considered derivatives.
    Reserves for credit exposure on unfunded credit commitments are
    recorded in other liabilities.

Allowance for
    Credit Losses    Management
    determines the adequacy of the allowance based on evaluations of
    credit relationships, the loan portfolio, recent loss
    experience, and other pertinent factors, including economic
    conditions. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it
    requires estimates,

U.S. BANCORP   71 

including amounts of future cash collections expected on
    nonaccrual loans, which may be susceptible to significant
    change. The allowance for credit losses relating to impaired
    loans is based on expected cash flows discounted using the
    original effective interest rate, the observable market price,
    or the fair value of the collateral for certain
    collateral-dependent loans.

The Company determines the amount of the allowance required for
    certain sectors based on relative risk characteristics of the
    loan portfolio. The allowance recorded for commercial loans is
    based on quarterly reviews of individual credit relationships
    and an analysis of the migration of commercial loans and actual
    loss experience. The allowance recorded for homogeneous consumer
    loans is based on an analysis of product mix, risk
    characteristics of the portfolio, bankruptcy experiences, and
    historical losses, adjusted for current trends, for each
    homogenous category or group of loans. The allowance is
    increased through provisions charged to operating earnings and
    reduced by net charge-offs.

The Company also assesses the credit risk associated with
    off-balance sheet loan commitments, letters of credit, and
    derivatives. Credit risk associated with derivatives is
    reflected in the fair values recorded for those positions. The
    liability for off-balance sheet credit exposure related to loan
    commitments and other credit guarantees is included in other
    liabilities.

Nonaccrual Loans
       Generally, commercial
    loans (including impaired loans) are placed on nonaccrual status
    when the collection of interest or principal has become
    90 days past due or is otherwise considered doubtful. When
    a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, unpaid accrued interest
    is reversed. Future interest payments are generally applied
    against principal. Revolving consumer lines and credit cards are
    charged off by 180 days past due and closed-end consumer
    loans other than loans secured by 1-4 family properties are
    charged off at 120 days past due and are, therefore,
    generally not placed on nonaccrual status. Certain retail
    customers having financial difficulties may have the terms of
    their credit card and other loan agreements modified to require
    only principal payments and, as such, are reported as nonaccrual.

Generally, all loans accounted for under
     SOP 03-3 
    are considered accruing loans. However, the timing and amount of
    future cash flows for some loans is not reasonably estimable.
    Those loans are classified as nonaccrual loans and the purchase
    price discount on those loans is not recorded as interest income
    until the timing and amount of the future cash flows can be
    reasonably estimated.

Impaired Loans
       A loan is considered to
    be impaired when, based on current information and events, it is
    probable the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due
    (both interest and principal) according to the contractual terms
    of the loan agreement.

Impaired loans include certain nonaccrual commercial loans and
    loans for which a charge-off has been recorded based upon the
    fair value of the underlying collateral. Impaired loans also
    include loans that have been modified in troubled debt
    restructurings as a concession to borrowers experiencing
    financial difficulties. Purchased credit impaired loans are not
    required to be reported as impaired loans as long as they
    continue to perform at least as well as expected at acquisition.

Restructured
    Loans    In cases where a
    borrower experiences financial difficulties and the Company
    makes certain concessionary modifications to contractual terms,
    the loan is classified as a restructured loan. Modifications may
    include rate reductions, principal forgiveness, forbearance and
    other actions intended to minimize the economic loss and to
    avoid foreclosure or repossession of collateral. For credit card
    loan agreements, such modifications may include canceling the
    customer s available line of credit on the credit card,
    reducing the interest rate on the card, and placing the customer
    on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months. The
    allowance for credit losses on restructured loans is determined
    by discounting the restructured cash flows by the original
    effective rate. Loans restructured at a rate equal to or greater
    than that of a new loan with comparable risk at the time the
    contract is modified may be excluded from restructured loan
    disclosures in years subsequent to the restructuring if they are
    in compliance with the modified terms.

Generally, a nonaccrual loan that is restructured remains on
    nonaccrual for a period of six months to demonstrate the
    borrower can meet the restructured terms. However, performance
    prior to the restructuring, or significant events that coincide
    with the restructuring, are considered in assessing whether the
    borrower can meet the new terms and may result in the loan being
    returned to accrual status at the time of restructuring or after
    a shorter performance period. If the borrower s ability to
    meet the revised payment schedule is not reasonably assured, the
    loan remains classified as a nonaccrual loan.

Leases
       The Company s lease
    portfolio consists of both direct financing and leveraged
    leases. The net investment in direct financing leases is the sum
    of all minimum lease payments and estimated residual values,
    less unearned income. Unearned income is recorded in interest
    income over the terms of the leases to produce a level yield.

The investment in leveraged leases is the sum of all lease
    payments (less nonrecourse debt payments) plus estimated
    residual values, less unearned income. Income from

72     U.S. BANCORP

leveraged leases is recognized over the term of the leases based
    on the unrecovered equity investment.

Residual values on leased assets are reviewed regularly for
    other-than-temporary impairment. Residual valuations for retail
    automobile leases are based on independent assessments of
    expected used car sale prices at the end-of-term. Impairment
    tests are conducted based on these valuations considering the
    probability of the lessee returning the asset to the Company,
    re-marketing efforts, insurance coverage and ancillary fees and
    costs. Valuations for commercial leases are based upon external
    or internal management appraisals. When there is impairment of
    the Company s interest in the residual value of a leased
    asset, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair value
    with the writedown recognized in the current period.

Other Real Estate
       Other real estate
    ( OREO ), which is included in other assets, is
    property acquired through foreclosure or other proceedings on
    defaulted loans. OREO is initially recorded at fair value, less
    estimated selling costs. OREO is evaluated regularly and any
    decreases in value are reported in noninterest expense.

LOANS HELD FOR SALE

Loans held for sale ( LHFS ) represent mortgage loan
    originations intended to be sold in the secondary market and
    other loans that management has an active plan to sell. LHFS may
    be carried at the lower of cost or fair value as determined on
    an aggregate basis by type of loan or carried at fair value
    where the Company has elected fair value accounting. The credit
    component of any writedowns upon transfer of loans to LHFS is
    reflected in charge-offs.

Where an election is made to subsequently carry the LHFS at fair
    value, any further decreases or subsequent increases in fair
    value are recognized in noninterest income. Where an election is
    made to subsequently carry LHFS at lower of cost or fair value,
    any further decreases are recognized in noninterest income and
    increases in fair value are not recognized until the loans are
    sold.

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL
    INSTRUMENTS  

In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into
    derivative transactions to manage its interest rate, prepayment,
    credit, price and foreign currency risk and to accommodate the
    business requirements of its customers. Derivative instruments
    are reported as other assets, other liabilities or short-term
    borrowings at fair value. Changes in a derivative s fair
    value are recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge
    accounting criteria are met.

All derivative instruments that qualify for hedge accounting are
    recorded at fair value and classified either as a hedge of the
    fair value of a recognized asset or liability ( fair value
    hedge ) or as a hedge of the variability of cash flows to
    be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability
    or a forecasted transaction ( cash flow hedge ).
    Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly
    effective and designated as a fair value hedge and the
    offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged item are
    recorded in income. Effective changes in the fair value of a
    derivative designated as a cash flow hedge are recorded in
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until cash flows
    of the hedged item are recognized in income. Any change in fair
    value resulting from hedge ineffectiveness is immediately
    recorded in noninterest income. The Company performs an
    assessment, both at the inception of a hedge and on a quarterly
    basis thereafter, to determine whether derivatives designated as
    hedging instruments are highly effective in offsetting changes
    in the value of the hedged items.

If a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge is terminated or
    ceases to be highly effective, the gain or loss in accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss) is amortized to earnings over
    the period the forecasted hedged transactions impact earnings.
    If a hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable, hedge
    accounting is ceased and any gain or loss included in
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is reported in
    earnings immediately.

REVENUE
    RECOGNITION  

The Company recognizes revenue as it is earned based on
    contractual terms, as transactions occur, or as services are
    provided and collectibility is reasonably assured. In certain
    circumstances, noninterest income is reported net of associated
    expenses that are directly related to variable volume-based
    sales or revenue sharing arrangements or when the Company acts
    on an agency basis for others. Certain specific policies include
    the following:

Credit and Debit
    Card Revenue    Credit and
    debit card revenue includes interchange income from credit and
    debit cards, annual fees, and other transaction and account
    management fees. Interchange income is a fee paid by a merchant
    bank to the card-issuing bank through the interchange network.
    Interchange fees are set by the credit card associations and are
    based on cardholder purchase volumes. The Company records
    interchange income as transactions occur. Transaction and
    account management fees are recognized as transactions occur or
    services are provided, except for annual fees, which are
    recognized over the applicable period. Volume-related payments
    to partners and credit card associations and expenses for
    rewards programs are also recorded within credit and debit card
    revenue. Payments to partners and expenses related to

U.S. BANCORP   73 

rewards programs are recorded when earned by the partner or
    customer.

Merchant
    Processing Services
       Merchant processing
    services revenue consists principally of transaction and account
    management fees charged to merchants for the electronic
    processing of transactions, net of interchange fees paid to the
    credit card issuing bank, card association assessments, and
    revenue sharing amounts, and are all recognized at the time the
    merchant s transactions are processed or other services are
    performed. The Company may enter into revenue sharing agreements
    with referral partners or in connection with purchases of
    merchant contracts from sellers. The revenue sharing amounts are
    determined primarily on sales volume processed or revenue
    generated for a particular group of merchants. Merchant
    processing revenue also includes revenues related to
    point-of-sale equipment recorded as sales when the equipment is
    shipped or as earned for equipment rentals.

Trust and
    Investment Management Fees
       Trust and investment
    management fees are recognized over the period in which services
    are performed and are based on a percentage of the fair value of
    the assets under management or administration, fixed based on
    account type, or transaction-based fees.

Deposit Service
    Charges    Service charges
    on deposit accounts primarily represent monthly fees based on
    minimum balances or transaction-based fees. These fees are
    recognized as earned or as transactions occur and services are
    provided.

OTHER SIGNIFICANT
    POLICIES  

Intangible Assets
       The price paid over the
    net fair value of acquired businesses ( goodwill ) is
    not amortized. Other intangible assets are amortized over their
    estimated useful lives, using straight-line and accelerated
    methods. The recoverability of goodwill and other intangible
    assets is evaluated annually, at a minimum, or on an interim
    basis if events or circumstances indicate a possible inability
    to realize the carrying amount. The evaluation includes
    assessing the estimated fair value of the intangible asset based
    on market prices for similar assets, where available, and the
    present value of the estimated future cash flows associated with
    the intangible asset.

Income Taxes
       Deferred taxes are
    recorded to reflect the tax consequences on future years of
    differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and
    their financial reporting carrying amounts.

Mortgage
    Servicing Rights
       Mortgage servicing
    rights ( MSRs ) are capitalized as separate assets
    when loans are sold and servicing is retained or if they are
    purchased from others. MSRs are recorded at fair value. The
    Company determines the fair value by estimating the present
    value of the asset s future cash flows utilizing
    market-based prepayment rates, discount rates, and other
    assumptions validated through comparison to trade information,
    industry surveys and independent third party appraisals. Changes
    in the fair value of MSRs are recorded in earnings during the
    period in which they occur. Risks inherent in the MSRs valuation
    include higher than expected prepayment rates
     and/or 
    delayed receipt of cash flows. The Company utilizes futures,
    forwards and options to mitigate MSR valuation risk. Fair value
    changes related to the MSRs and the futures, forwards and
    options, as well as servicing and other related fees, are
    recorded in mortgage banking revenue.

Pensions
       For purposes of its
    retirement plans, beginning in 2008, the Company utilizes its
    fiscal year end as the measurement date. Prior to 2008, the
    Company utilized September 30 of each year as the
    measurement date. At the measurement date, plan assets are
    determined based on fair value, generally representing
    observable market prices. The actuarial cost method used to
    compute the pension liabilities and related expense is the
    projected unit credit method. The projected benefit obligation
    is principally determined based on the present value of
    projected benefit distributions at an assumed discount rate. The
    discount rate utilized is based on the investment yield of high
    quality corporate bonds available in the market place with
    maturities equal to projected cash flows of future benefit
    payments as of the measurement date. Periodic pension expense
    (or income) includes service costs, interest costs based on the
    assumed discount rate, the expected return on plan assets based
    on an actuarially derived market-related value and amortization
    of actuarial gains and losses. Pension accounting reflects the
    long-term nature of benefit obligations and the investment
    horizon of plan assets and can have the effect of reducing
    earnings volatility related to short-term changes in interest
    rates and market valuations. Actuarial gains and losses include
    the impact of plan amendments and various unrecognized gains and
    losses which are deferred and amortized over the future service
    periods of active employees. The market-related value utilized
    to determine the expected return on plan assets is based on fair
    value adjusted for the difference between expected returns and
    actual performance of plan assets. The unrealized difference
    between actual experience and expected returns is included in
    expense over a twelve-year period. The overfunded or underfunded
    status of the plans is recorded as an asset or liability on the
    balance sheet, with changes in that status recognized through
    other comprehensive income (loss).

Premises and
    Equipment    Premises and
    equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and
    depreciated

74     U.S. BANCORP

primarily on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of
    the assets. Estimated useful lives range up to 40 years for
    newly constructed buildings and from 3 to 20 years for
    furniture and equipment.

Capitalized leases, less accumulated amortization, are included
    in premises and equipment. Capitalized lease obligations are
    included in long-term debt. Capitalized leases are amortized on
    a straight-line basis over the lease term and the amortization
    is included in depreciation expense.

Stock-Based
    Compensation    The Company
    grants stock-based awards, including restricted stock and
    options to purchase common stock of the Company. Stock option
    grants are for a fixed number of shares to employees and
    directors with an exercise price equal to the fair value of the
    shares at the date of grant. Stock-based compensation for awards
    is recognized in the Company s results of operations on a
    straight-line basis over the vesting period. The Company
    immediately recognizes compensation cost of awards to employees
    that meet retirement status, despite their continued active
    employment. The amortization of stock-based compensation
    reflects estimated forfeitures adjusted for actual forfeiture
    experience. As compensation expense is recognized, a deferred
    tax asset is recorded that represents an estimate of the future
    tax deduction from exercise or release of restrictions. At the
    time stock-based awards are exercised, cancelled, expire, or
    restrictions are released, the Company may be required to
    recognize an adjustment to tax expense, depending on the market
    price of the Company s stock at that time.

Per Share
    Calculations    Earnings
    per common share is calculated by dividing net income applicable
    to common equity by the weighted average number of common shares
    outstanding. Diluted earnings per common share is calculated by
    adjusting income and outstanding shares, assuming conversion of
    all potentially dilutive securities.

Note 2        ACCOUNTING
    CHANGES 

Fair Value Option
       In February 2007, the
    Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159
    ( SFAS 159 ),  The Fair Value Option for
    Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities , effective for
    the Company beginning on January 1, 2008. SFAS 159
    provides entities with an irrevocable option to measure and
    report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
    The Company elected the fair value option for certain mortgage
    loans held for sale ( MLHFS ) originated on or after
    January 1, 2008. There was no impact of adopting
    SFAS 159 on the Company s financial statements at the
    date of adoption. The Company elected the fair value option for
    MLHFS for which an active secondary market and readily available
    market prices exist to reliably support fair value pricing
    models used for these loans. These MLHFS loans are initially
    measured at fair value, with subsequent changes in fair value
    recognized as a component of mortgage banking revenue. Electing
    to measure these MLHFS at fair value reduces certain timing
    differences and better matches changes in fair value of these
    assets with changes in the value of the derivative instruments
    used to economically hedge them without the burden of complying
    with the requirements for hedge accounting.

Fair Value
    Measurements    In
    September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 157 ( SFAS 157 ),
     Fair Value Measurements , effective for the Company
    beginning on January 1, 2008. SFAS 157 defines fair
    value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and
    expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157
    provides a consistent definition of fair value focused on exit
    price, and prioritizes market-based inputs for determining fair
    value. SFAS 157 also requires consideration of
    nonperformance risk when determining fair value measurements.
    The adoption of SFAS 157 reduced the Company s net
    income by approximately $62 million ($38 million
    after-tax) for the year ended December 31, 2008 as a result
    of the consideration of nonperformance risk for certain
    financial instruments.

Written Loan
    Commitments    In November
    2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC )
    issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 109
    ( SAB 109 ),  Written Loan Commitments
    Recorded at Fair Value Through Earnings , effective for the
    Company beginning on January 1, 2008. SAB 109
    expresses the SEC s view that the expected net future cash
    flows related to the associated servicing of a loan should be
    included in the measurement of all written loan commitments that
    are accounted for at fair value through earnings.

Business
    Combinations    In December
    2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 141 (revised 2007)
    ( SFAS 141R ),  Business Combinations ,
    effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2009.
    SFAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for the
    acquiror in a business combination, including the recognition
    and measurement of the identifiable assets acquired, the
    liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the
    acquired entity as of the acquisition date; the recognition and
    measurement of the goodwill acquired in the business combination
    or gain from a bargain purchase as of the acquisition date; and
    the determination of additional disclosures needed to enable
    users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and
    financial effects of the business combination. Under
    SFAS 141R, nearly all acquired assets and liabilities
    assumed are required to be recorded at fair value at the
    acquisition date, including loans. This will

U.S. BANCORP   75 

eliminate recognition at the acquisition date of an allowance
    for loan losses on acquired loans; rather, credit related
    factors will be incorporated directly into the fair value of the
    loans. Other significant changes include recognizing transaction
    costs and most restructuring costs as expenses when incurred.
    The accounting requirements of SFAS 141R are applied on a
    prospective basis for all transactions completed after the
    effective date and early adoption is not permitted.

Noncontrolling
    Interests    In December
    2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 160 ( SFAS 160 ),
     Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51 , effective for
    the Company beginning on January 1, 2009. SFAS 160
    will change the accounting and reporting for minority interests,
    which will be recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and
    classified as a component of equity, separate from
    U.S. Bancorp s own equity, in the consolidated balance
    sheet. SFAS 160 also requires the amount of net income
    attributable to the entity and to the noncontrolling interests
    be shown separately on the consolidated statement of income, and
    requires expanded disclosures.

The Company expects to reclassify $733 million in
    noncontrolling interests from other liabilities to equity upon
    adoption of SFAS 160. Noncontrolling interests  share
    of net income was $69 million in 2008, $81 million in
    2007 and $58 million in 2006.

Note 3        BUSINESS
    COMBINATIONS 

On November 21, 2008, the Company acquired the banking
    operations of Downey Savings   Loan Association, F.A.,
    the primary subsidiary of Downey Financial Corp., and PFF
    Bank   Trust ( Downey  and  PFF ,
    respectively), from the FDIC. The Company acquired
    $13.7 billion of Downey s assets and assumed
    $12.3 billion of its liabilities, and acquired
    $3.7 billion of PFF s assets and assumed
    $3.5 billion of its liabilities. In connection with these
    acquisitions, the Company entered into loss sharing agreements
    with the FDIC ( Loss Sharing Agreements ) providing
    for specified credit loss and asset yield protection for all
    single family residential mortgages and a significant portion of
    commercial and commercial real estate loans and foreclosed real
    estate ( covered assets ). At the acquisition date,
    the Company estimated the covered assets would incur
    approximately $4.7 billion of cumulative credit losses,
    including the present value of expected interest rate decreases
    on loans the Company expects to modify. These losses, if
    incurred, will be offset by an estimated $2.4 billion
    benefit to be received by the Company from the FDIC under the
    Loss Sharing Agreements. Under the terms of the Loss Sharing
    Agreements, the Company will incur the first $1.6 billion
    of specified losses ( First Loss Position ) on the
    covered assets, which was approximately the predecessors 
    carrying amount of the net assets acquired. The Company acquired
    these net assets for a nominal amount of consideration. After
    the First Loss Position, the Company will incur 20 percent
    of the next $3.1 billion of specified losses and only
    5 percent of specified losses beyond that amount. The
    Company estimates that its share of those losses will be
    approximately $.7 billion.

The Company identified the acquired non-revolving loans
    experiencing credit deterioration, representing the majority of
    assets acquired, and recorded these assets in the financial
    statements at their estimated fair value, reflecting expected
    credit losses and the estimated impact of the Loss Sharing
    Agreements. The Company recorded all other loans at the
    predecessors  carrying amount, net of fair value
    adjustments for any interest rate related discount or premium,
    and an allowance for credit losses. At December 31, 2008,
    $11.5 billion of the Company s assets were covered by
    the Loss Sharing Agreements. The Company recorded
    $61 million of interest income on covered loans acquired
    for the year ended December 31, 2008.

Note 4        RESTRICTIONS
    ON CASH AND DUE FROM BANKS 

The Federal Reserve Bank requires bank subsidiaries to maintain
    minimum average reserve balances. Those reserve balances were
    $.9 billion at December 31, 2008.

76     U.S. BANCORP

Note 5        INVESTMENT
    SECURITIES   

The amortized cost, gross unrealized holding gains and losses,
    and fair value of held-to-maturity and available-for-sale
    securities at December 31 was as follows:

(a)

Held-to-maturity
    securities are carried at historical cost adjusted for
    amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts.   

(b)

Available-for-sale
    securities are carried at fair value with unrealized net gains
    or losses reported within accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss) in shareholders  equity.   

(c)

Primarily
    includes investments in structured investment vehicles with
    underlying collateral that includes a mix of various mortgage
    and other asset-backed securities.   

The weighted-average maturity of the available-for-sale
    investment securities was 7.7 years at December 31,
    2008, and 7.4 years at December 31, 2007. The
    corresponding weighted-average yields were 4.56 percent and
    5.51 percent, respectively. The weighted-average maturity
    of the held-to-maturity investment securities was 8.5 years
    at December 31, 2008, and 8.3 years at
    December 31, 2007. The corresponding weighted-average
    yields were 5.78 percent and 5.92 percent,
    respectively.

For amortized cost, fair value and yield by maturity date of
    held-to-maturity and available-for-sale securities outstanding
    at December 31, 2008, refer to Table 11 included in
    Management s Discussion and Analysis which is incorporated
    by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Securities with carrying amounts of $33.4 billion at
    December 31, 2008, and $39.6 billion at
    December 31, 2007, were pledged to secure public, private
    and trust deposits, repurchase agreements, derivative positions
    and for other purposes required by law. Included in these
    amounts were securities sold under agreements to repurchase
    where the buyer/lender has the right to sell or pledge the
    securities and which were collateralized by securities with a
    carrying amount of $9.5 billion at December 31, 2008,
    and $10.5 billion at December 31, 2007, respectively.

The following table provides information as to the amount of
    interest income from taxable and non-taxable investment
    securities:

U.S. BANCORP   77 

The following table provides information as to the amount of
    gross gains and losses realized through the sales of
    available-for-sale investment securities:

Included in available-for-sale investment securities are
    structured investment vehicle and related securities
    ( SIVs ) purchased in the fourth quarter of 2007 from
    certain money market funds managed by FAF Advisors, Inc., an
    affiliate of the Company. During 2008, the Company exchanged its
    interest in certain SIVs for a pro rata portion of the
    underlying investment securities according to the applicable
    restructuring agreements. The carrying amounts of exchanged SIVs
    were allocated to the investment securities received based on
    relative fair value. The SIVs and the investment securities
    received are collectively referred to as  SIV-related
    investments.  Some of these securities evidenced credit
    deterioration at time of acquisition by the Company.
     SOP 03-3 
    requires the difference between the total expected cash flows
    for these securities and the initial recorded investment to be
    recognized in earnings over the life of the securities, using a
    level yield. If subsequent decreases in the fair value of these
    securities are accompanied by an adverse change in the expected
    cash flows, an other-than-temporary impairment will be recorded
    through earnings. Subsequent increases in the expected cash
    flows will be recognized as income prospectively over the
    remaining life of the securities by increasing the level yield.
    During 2008 the Company recorded $550 million of impairment
    charges on
     SIV-related 
    investments subject to
     SOP 03-3, 
    primarily as a result of widening market spreads and changes in
    expected cash flows.

Changes in the carrying amount and accretable yield of
     SIV-related 
    investments subject to
     SOP 03-3 
    were as follows:

(a)

Represents
    the fair value of the securities at acquisition.   

(b)

Represents
    investment securities not subject to
     SOP 03-3 
    received in exchange for SIVs.   

The Company conducts a regular assessment of its investment
    portfolios to determine whether any securities are
    other-than-temporarily impaired considering, among other
    factors, the nature of the securities, credit ratings or
    financial condition of the issuer, the extent and duration of
    the unrealized loss, expected cash flows of underlying
    collateral, market conditions and the Company s ability and
    intent to hold the securities through the anticipated recovery
    period. In addition to the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment recorded on the
     SIV-related 
    investments subject to
     SOP 03-3, 
    the Company recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges of
    $470 million during 2008 on certain other SIV-related
    investments and other investment securities.

78     U.S. BANCORP

At December 31, 2008, certain investment securities
    included in the held-to-maturity and available-for-sale
    categories had a fair value that was below their amortized cost.
    The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair
    value of the Company s investments with unrealized losses,
    aggregated by investment category and length of time the
    individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss
    position, at December 31, 2008:

The Company does not consider these unrealized losses to be
    other-than-temporary at December 31, 2008. The unrealized
    losses within each investment category have occurred as a result
    of changes in interest rates and market credit spreads. The
    substantial portion of securities that have unrealized losses
    are either obligations of state and political subdivisions or
    non-agency securities with high investment grade credit ratings
    and limited credit exposure. Unrealized losses within other
    securities and investments are also the result of a widening of
    market spreads since the initial purchase date. In general, the
    issuers of the investment securities are contractually
    prohibited from paying them off at less than par and the Company
    did not have significant purchase premiums. The Company has the
    intent and ability to hold all of the securities that are in an
    unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008, until their
    anticipated recovery in value or maturity.

U.S. BANCORP   79 

Note 6
        
        LOANS
    AND ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT
    LOSSES   

The composition of the loan portfolio at December 31 was as
    follows:

Loans are presented net of unearned interest and deferred fees
    and costs of $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company had
    loans of $45.4 billion at December 31, 2008, and
    $44.5 billion at December 31, 2007, pledged at the
    Federal Home Loan Bank ( FHLB ), and loans of
    $47.2 billion at December 31, 2008, and
    $16.8 billion at December 31, 2007, pledged at the
    Federal Reserve Bank.

The Company primarily lends to borrowers in the 24 states
    in which it has banking offices. Collateral for commercial loans
    may include marketable securities, accounts receivable,
    inventory and equipment. For details of the Company s
    commercial portfolio by industry group and geography as of
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, see Table 7 included in
    Management s Discussion and Analysis which is incorporated
    by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

For detail of the Company s commercial real estate
    portfolio by property type and geography as of December 31,
    2008 and 2007, see Table 8 included in Management s
    Discussion and Analysis which is incorporated by reference into
    these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Such loans are
    collateralized by the related property.

Covered assets represent assets acquired from the FDIC subject
    to Loss Sharing Agreements and include expected reimbursements
    from the FDIC of approximately $2.4 billion.

80     U.S. BANCORP

The carrying amount of the covered assets at December 31,
    2008, consisted of loans accounted for in accordance with
     SOP 03-3 
     ( SOP 03-3 
    loans ), loans not subject to
     SOP 03-3 
    ( Non
     SOP 03-3 
    loans ) and other assets as shown in the following table:

On the acquisition date, the preliminary estimate of the
    contractually required payments receivable for all
     SOP 03-3 
    loans acquired in the Downey and PFF transactions, including
    those covered and not covered under Loss Sharing Agreements with
    the FDIC, were $22.8 billion, the cash flows expected to be
    collected were $9.2 billion including interest, and the
    estimated fair value of the loans was $6.5 billion. These
    amounts were determined based upon the estimated remaining life
    of the underlying loans, which include the effects of estimated
    prepayments. At December 31, 2008, $309 million of
    these loans were classified as nonperforming assets because the
    expected cash flows are primarily based on the liquidation of
    underlying collateral and the timing and amount of the cash
    flows could not be reasonably estimated. Interest income,
    through accretion of the difference between the carrying amount
    of the
     SOP 03-3 
    loans and the expected cash flows, is expected to be recognized
    on the remaining $6.0 billion of loans. There was no
    allowance for credit losses related to these
     SOP 03-3 
    loans at December 31, 2008. Because of the short time
    period between the closing of the transaction and
    December 31, 2008, certain amounts related to the
     SOP 03-3 
    loans are preliminary estimates. The Company expects to finalize
    its analysis of these loans during the first six months of 2009
    and, therefore, adjustments to the estimated amounts may occur.

Changes in the carrying amount and accretable yield for loans
    subject to
     SOP 03-3 
    were as follows for the year ended December 31, 2008:

(a)

Represents
    the fair value of the loans at acquisition.   

Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans, restructured
    loans not performing in accordance with modified terms, other
    real estate and other nonperforming assets owned by the Company.
    For details of the Company s nonper forming assets as of
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, see Table 14 included in
    Management s Discussion and Analysis which is incorporated
    by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

The following table lists information related to nonperforming
    loans as of December 31:

U.S. BANCORP   81 

Activity in the allowance for credit losses was as follows:

(a)

Included
    in this analysis is activity related to the Company s
    liability for unfunded commitments, which is separately recorded
    in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance
    Sheet.   

A summary of impaired loans is as follows:

For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the
    Company had net gains on the sale of loans of $220 million,
    $163 million and $104 million, respectively, which
    were included in noninterest income, primarily in mortgage
    banking revenue.

The Company has equity interests in several joint ventures that
    are accounted for utilizing the equity method. The principal
    activities of these entities are to:

develop land, construct and sell residential homes.

provide commercial real estate financing for loans that are
    subsequently sold or securitized.

provide senior or subordinated financing to customers for the
    construction, rehabilitation or development of commercial real
    estate.

In connection with these joint ventures, the Company may provide
    warehousing lines to support the operations. Warehousing
    advances to the joint ventures are repaid when the sale or
    securitization of loans is completed or the real estate is
    permanently refinanced by others. At December 31, 2008 and
    2007, the Company had $1.0 billion and $2.3 billion,
    respectively, of outstanding advances to these joint ventures.

82     U.S. BANCORP

Note 7
        
        LEASES   

The components of the net investment in sales-type and direct
    financing leases at December 31 were as follows:

The minimum future lease payments to be received from sales-type
    and direct financing leases were as follows at December 31,
    2008:

Note 8        ACCOUNTING
    FOR TRANSFERS AND SERVICING OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND  
    VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES 

FINANCIAL ASSET SALES

When the Company sells financial assets, it may retain servicing
    rights
     and/or  other
    beneficial interests in the transferred financial assets. The
    gain or loss on sale depends, in part, on the previous carrying
    amount of the transferred financial assets and the consideration
    other than beneficial interests in the transferred assets
    received in exchange. Upon transfer, any servicing assets are
    initially recognized at fair value. The remaining carrying
    amount of the transferred financial asset is allocated between
    the assets sold and any interest(s) that continues to be held by
    the Company based on the relative fair values as of the date of
    transfer.

Conduit and
    Securitization    The
    Company sponsors an off-balance sheet conduit to which it
    transferred high-grade investment securities, initially funded
    by the conduit s issuance of commercial paper. These
    investment securities include primarily (i) private label
    asset-backed securities, which are guaranteed by third-party
    insurers, and (ii) collateralized mortgage obligations. The
    conduit held assets of $.8 billion at December 31,
    2008, and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2007. In March
    2008, the conduit ceased issuing commercial paper and began to
    draw upon a Company-provided liquidity facility to replace
    outstanding commercial paper as it matured. The draws upon the
    liquidity facility resulted in the conduit becoming a
    non-qualifying special purpose entity. The Company has
    determined the liquidity facility does not absorb the majority
    of the variability of the conduit s cash flows or fair
    value. As a result, the Company is not the primary beneficiary
    of the conduit and, therefore, does not consolidate the conduit.
    At December 31, 2008, the amount advanced to the conduit
    under the liquidity facility was $.9 billion, which is
    recorded on the Company s balance sheet in commercial
    loans. Proceeds from the conduit s investment securities
    will be used to repay draws on the liquidity facility. The
    Company believes there is sufficient collateral to repay all of
    the liquidity facility advances.

VARIABLE INTEREST
    ENTITIES

The Company is involved in various entities that are considered
    to be VIEs as defined in Financial Interpretation No. 46R,
    Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. Generally, a VIE is
    a corporation, partnership, trust or any other legal structure
    that either does not have equity investors with substantive
    voting rights or has equity investors that do not provide
    sufficient financial resources for the entity to support its
    activities. The Company s investments in VIEs primarily
    represent private investment funds that make equity investments,
    provide debt financing or partnerships to support
    community-based investments in affordable housing, development
    entities that provide capital for communities located in
    low-income districts and historic rehabilitation projects that
    may enable the Company to ensure regulatory compliance with the
    Community Reinvestment Act.

The Company consolidates VIEs in which it is the primary
    beneficiary. At December 31, 2008, approximately

U.S. BANCORP   83 

$479 million of total assets related to various VIEs were
    consolidated by the Company in its financial statements.
    Creditors of these VIEs have no recourse to the general credit
    of the Company. The Company is not required to consolidate other
    VIEs as it is not the primary beneficiary. In such cases, the
    Company does not absorb the majority of the entities 
    expected losses nor does it receive a majority of the
    entities  expected residual returns. At December 31,
    2008, the amounts of the Company s investment in
    unconsolidated VIEs ranged from less than $1 million to
    $55 million with an aggregate amount of approximately
    $2.1 billion. While the Company believes potential losses
    from these investments is remote, the Company s maximum
    exposure to these unconsolidated VIEs, including any tax
    implications, was approximately $3.9 billion at
    December 31, 2008, assuming that all of the separate
    investments within the individual private funds are deemed
    worthless and the community-based business and housing projects,
    and related tax credits, completely failed and did not meet
    certain government compliance requirements.

Note 9        PREMISES
    AND EQUIPMENT 

Premises and equipment at December 31 consisted of the following:

Note 10        MORTGAGE
    SERVICING RIGHTS 

The Company serviced $120.3 billion of residential mortgage
    loans for others at December 31, 2008, and
    $97.0 billion at December 31, 2007. The net impact of
    assumption changes on the fair value of MSRs, and fair value
    changes of derivatives used to offset MSR value changes included
    in mortgage banking revenue and net interest income was a loss
    of $122 million, $35 million and $37 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. Loan servicing fees, not including valuation
    changes, included in mortgage banking revenue were
    $404 million, $353 million and $319 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

Changes in fair value of capitalized MSRs are summarized as
    follows:

(a)

Principally
    reflects changes in discount rates and prepayment speed
    assumptions, primarily arising from interest rate
    changes.   

(b)

Primarily
    represents changes due to collection/realization of expected
    cash flows over time (decay).   

The estimated sensitivity to changes in interest rates of the
    fair value of the MSRs portfolio and the related derivative
    instruments at December 31, 2008, was as follows:

84     U.S. BANCORP

The fair value of MSRs and their sensitivity to changes in
    interest rates is influenced by the mix of the servicing
    portfolio and characteristics of each segment of the portfolio.
    The Company s servicing portfolio consists of the distinct
    portfolios of Mortgage Revenue Bond Programs ( MRBP ),
    government-insured mortgages and conventional mortgages. The
    MRBP division specializes in servicing loans made under state
    and local housing authority programs. These programs provide
    mortgages to low-income and moderate-income borrowers and are
    generally government-insured programs with a favorable rate
    subsidy, down payment
     and/or 
    closing cost assistance. Mortgage loans originated as part of
    government agency and state loans programs tend to experience
    slower prepayment rates and better cash flows than conventional
    mortgage loans. The servicing portfolios are predominantly
    comprised of fixed-rate agency loans (FNMA, FHLMC, GNMA, FHLB
    and various housing agencies) with limited adjustable-rate or
    jumbo mortgage loans.

A summary of the Company s MSRs and related characteristics
    by portfolio as of December 31, 2008, was as follows:

(a)

Calculated
    as fair value divided by the unpaid principal balance of the
    loans serviced, expressed in hundredths.   

Note 11        INTANGIBLE
    ASSETS 

Intangible assets consisted of the following:

(a)

Estimated
    life represents the amortization period for assets subject to
    the straight line method and the weighted average amortization
    period for intangibles subject to accelerated methods. If more
    than one amortization method is used for a category, the
    estimated life for each method is calculated and reported
    separately.   

(b)

Amortization
    methods:  SL = straight line method 
      AC = accelerated methods generally based on
    cash flows  

(c)

Mortgage
    servicing rights are recorded at fair value, and are not
    amortized.   

Aggregate amortization expense consisted of the following:

The estimated amortization expense for the next five years is as
    follows:

U.S. BANCORP   85 

The following table reflects the changes in the carrying value
    of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007:

(a)

Other
    changes in goodwill include the effect of foreign exchange
    translation.   

Note 12        SHORT-TERM
    BORROWINGS (a) 

The following table is a summary of short-term borrowings for
    the last three years:

(a)

Interest
    and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis
    utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent.   

(b)

Average
    federal funds purchased rates include compensation expense for
    corporate card and corporate trust balances.   

86     U.S. BANCORP

Note 13        LONG-TERM
    DEBT 

Long-term debt (debt with original maturities of more than one
    year) at December 31 consisted of the following:

(a)

Weighted-average
    interest rates of medium-term notes, Federal Home Loan Bank
    advances and bank notes were 2.99 percent,
    3.06 percent and 2.64 percent, respectively.   

(b)

Other
    includes debt issuance fees and unrealized gains and losses and
    deferred fees relating to derivative instruments.   

Convertible senior debentures issued by the Company pay interest
    on a quarterly basis until a specified period of time (five or
    nine years prior to the applicable maturity date). After this
    date, the Company will not pay interest on the debentures prior
    to maturity. On the maturity date or on any earlier redemption
    date, the holder will receive the original principal plus
    accrued interest. The debentures are convertible at any time on
    or prior to the maturity date. If the convertible senior
    debentures are converted, holders of the debentures will
    generally receive cash up to the accreted principal amount of
    the debentures plus, if the market price of the Company s
    stock exceeds the conversion price in effect on the date of
    conversion, a number of shares of the Company s common
    stock, or an equivalent amount of cash at the Company s
    option, as determined in accordance with specified terms. The
    convertible senior debentures are callable by the Company and
    putable by the investors at a price equal to 100 percent of
    the accreted principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
    During 2008, investors elected to put debentures with a
    principal amount of $3.3 billion back to the Company. At
    December 31, 2008, the weighted average conversion price
    per share for all convertible issuances was $36.39.

U.S. BANCORP   87 

The table below summarizes the significant terms of
    floating-rate convertible senior debentures issued during 2007
    at $1,000 per debenture:

(a)

The
    interest rate index represents three month London Interbank
    Offered Rate ( LIBOR )   

During 2007, the Company issued $536 million of fixed-rate
    junior subordinated debentures to a separately formed
    wholly-owned trust for the purpose of issuing Company-obligated
    mandatorily redeemable preferred securities at an interest rate
    of 6.30 percent. In addition, the Company elected to redeem
    $312 million of floating-rate junior subordinated
    debentures. Refer to Note 14,  Junior Subordinated
    Debentures  for further information on the nature and terms
    of these debentures. There were no such issuances or redemptions
    in 2008.

The Company has an arrangement with the Federal Home Loan Bank
    whereby the Company could have borrowed an additional
    $6.6 billion at December 31, 2008, based on collateral
    available (residential and commercial mortgages).

Maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31,
    2008, were:

88     U.S. BANCORP

Note 14        JUNIOR
    SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES 

As of December 31, 2008, the Company sponsored, and wholly
    owned 100 percent of the common equity of, nine trusts that were
    formed for the purpose of issuing Company- obligated mandatorily
    redeemable preferred securities ( Trust Preferred
    Securities ) to third-party investors and investing the
    proceeds from the sale of the Trust Preferred Securities
    solely in junior subordinated debt securities of the Company
    (the  Debentures ). The Debentures held by the trusts,
    which totaled $4.1 billion, are the sole assets of each
    trust. The Company s obligations under the Debentures and
    related documents, taken together, constitute a full and
    unconditional guarantee by the Company of the obligations of the
    trusts. The guarantee covers the distributions and payments on
    liquidation or redemption of the Trust Preferred
    Securities, but only to the extent of funds held by the trusts.
    The Company has the right to redeem the Debentures in whole or
    in part, on or after specific dates, at a redemption price
    specified in the indentures plus any accrued but unpaid interest
    to the redemption date. The Company used the proceeds from the
    sales of the Debentures for general corporate purposes.

In connection with the formation of USB Capital IX, the trust
    issued redeemable Income Trust Securities ( ITS )
    to third party investors, investing the proceeds in Debentures
    issued by the Company and entered into stock purchase contracts
    to purchase preferred stock to be issued by the Company in the
    future. Pursuant to the stock purchase contracts, the Company is
    required to make contract payments of .65 percent, also
    payable semi-annually, through a specified stock purchase date
    expected to be April 15, 2011. Prior to the specified stock
    purchase date, the trust is required to remarket and sell the
    Debentures to third party investors to generate cash proceeds to
    satisfy its obligation to purchase the Company s
    Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock
    ( Series A Preferred Stock ) pursuant to the
    stock purchase contracts. The Series A Preferred Stock,
    when issued pursuant to the stock purchase contracts, is
    expected to pay quarterly dividends equal to the greater of
    three-month LIBOR plus 1.02 percent or 3.50 percent.
    In connection with this transaction, the Company also entered
    into a replacement capital covenant which restricts the
    Company s rights to repurchase the ITS and to redeem or
    repurchase the Series A Preferred Stock.

The following table is a summary of the Debentures included in
    long-term debt as of December 31, 2008:

Note 15        SHAREHOLDERS 
    EQUITY 

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had authority to
    issue 4 billion shares of common stock and 50 million
    shares of preferred stock. The Company had 1,755 million
    and 1,728 million shares of common stock outstanding at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and had
    482 million shares reserved for future issuances, primarily
    under stock option plans and shares that may be issued in
    connection with the Company s convertible senior
    debentures, at December 31, 2008. At December 31,
    2008, the Company had 7 million shares of preferred stock
    outstanding.

On March 27, 2006, the Company issued depositary shares
    representing an ownership interest in 40,000 shares of
    Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock with a
    liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (the
     Series B Preferred Stock ), and on
    March 17, 2008, the Company issued depositary shares
    representing an ownership interest in 20,000 shares of
    Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock with a
    liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (the
     Series D Preferred Stock ). The Series B
    Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock have no stated
    maturity and will not be subject to any sinking fund or other
    obligation of the Company. Dividends, if declared, will accrue
    and be payable quarterly, in arrears, at a rate per

U.S. BANCORP   89 

annum equal to the greater of three-month LIBOR plus
    .60 percent, or 3.50 percent on the Series B
    Preferred Stock, and 7.875 percent per annum on the
    Series D Preferred Stock. Both series are redeemable at the
    Company s option, subject to the prior approval of the
    Federal Reserve Board, at a redemption price equal to $25,000
    per share, plus any declared and unpaid dividends, without
    accumulation of any undeclared dividends, with the redemption
    option beginning April 15, 2011 for the Series B
    Preferred Stock and April 15, 2013 for the Series D
    Preferred Stock. In connection with the issuance of each series,
    the Company also entered into replacement capital covenants,
    which restrict the Company s rights to redeem or repurchase
    each series. Except in certain limited circumstances, neither
    series will have any voting rights.

On November 14, 2008, the Company issued 6.6 million
    shares of cumulative perpetual preferred stock to the United
    States Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program of the
    Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the
     Series E Preferred Stock ) for proceeds of
    $6.6 billion. Dividends on the Series E Preferred
    Stock will accrue and be payable quarterly at a rate of
    5 percent per annum for five years. The rate will increase
    to 9 percent per annum, thereafter, if shares of the
    Series E Preferred Stock are not redeemed by the Company.
    Under its original terms, the Series E Preferred Stock
    could be redeemed three years following the date of issuance, or
    earlier if the Company raised replacement regulatory capital.
    The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
    ( ARRA ) requires the United States Treasury, subject
    to consultation with appropriate banking regulators, to permit
    participants in the Capital Purchase Program to repay any
    amounts previously received without regard to whether the
    recipient has replaced such funds from any other source or to
    any waiting period. All redemptions of the Series E
    Preferred Stock shall be at 100 percent of the issue price,
    plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. The Series E
    Preferred Stock is non-voting, other than for class voting
    rights on any authorization or issuance of senior ranking
    shares, any amendment to its rights, or any merger, exchange or
    similar transaction which would adversely affect its rights.

For as long as the Series E Preferred Stock is outstanding,
    no dividends may be declared or paid on junior preferred shares,
    preferred shares ranking equal to the Series E Preferred
    Stock, or common shares, nor may the Company repurchase or
    redeem any such shares, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends
    for all past dividend periods on the Series E Preferred
    Stock are fully paid. The consent of the United States Treasury
    is required for any increase in the quarterly dividends per
    share of the Company s common stock or for any share
    repurchases of junior preferred or common shares, until the
    shorter of the third anniversary date of the Series E
    Preferred Stock issuance or the date the Series E Preferred
    Stock is redeemed in whole. Participation in this program also
    subjects the Company to certain restrictions with respect to the
    compensation of certain executives.

In conjunction with the Series E Preferred Stock issuance,
    the United States Treasury received warrants entitling it to
    purchase 33 million shares of the Company s common
    stock at a price of $30.29 per common share. The warrants were
    exercisable at issuance and expire on November 13, 2018.
    The Company allocated $172 million of the proceeds from the
    Series E Preferred Stock issuance to the warrants. The
    resulting discount on the Series E Preferred Stock is being
    accreted over five years and reported as a reduction of income
    applicable to common equity over that period. ARRA requires the
    United States Treasury to liquidate these warrants if the
    Company repays amounts received under the Capital Purchase
    Program.

During 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company repurchased shares of
    its common stock under various authorizations approved by its
    Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2008, the Company
    had approximately 20 million shares that may yet be
    purchased under the current Board of Director approved
    authorization, in connection with the administration of its
    employee benefit plans in the ordinary course of business solely
    to the extent permitted under the Capital Purchase Program of
    the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.

The following table summarizes the Company s common stock
    repurchased in each of the last three years:

90     U.S. BANCORP

Shareholders  equity is affected by transactions and
    valuations of asset and liability positions that require
    adjustments to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
    The reconciliation of the transactions affecting accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss) included in shareholders 
    equity for the years ended December 31, is as follows:

Regulatory
    Capital    The measures
    used to assess capital by bank regulatory agencies include two
    principal risk-based ratios, Tier 1 and total risk-based
    capital. Tier 1 capital is considered core capital and
    includes common shareholders  equity plus qualifying
    preferred stock, trust preferred securities and minority
    interests in consolidated subsidiaries (included in other
    liabilities and subject to certain limitations), and is adjusted
    for the aggregate impact of certain items included in other
    comprehensive income (loss). Total risk-based capital includes
    Tier 1 capital and other items such as subordinated debt
    and the allowance for credit losses. Both measures are stated as
    a percentage of risk-adjusted assets, which are measured based
    on their perceived credit risk and include certain off-balance
    sheet exposures, such as unfunded loan commitments, letters of
    credit, and derivative contracts. The Company is also subject to
    a leverage ratio requirement, a non risk-based asset ratio,
    which is defined as Tier 1 capital as a percentage of
    average assets adjusted for goodwill and other non-qualifying
    intangibles and other assets.

For a summary of the regulatory capital requirements and the
    actual ratios as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, for the
    Company and its bank subsidiaries, see Table 21 included in
    Management s Discussion and Analysis, which is incorporated
    by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

U.S. BANCORP   91 

The following table provides the components of the
    Company s regulatory capital:

(a)

Includes
    the impact of items included in other comprehensive income
    (loss), such as unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale
    securities, accumulated net gains on cash flow hedges, pension
    liability adjustments, etc.   

Minority interests principally represent preferred stock of
    consolidated subsidiaries. During 2006, the Company s
    primary banking subsidiary formed USB Realty Corp., a real
    estate investment trust, for the purpose of issuing
    5,000 shares of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Exchangeable
    Non-cumulative Perpetual Series A Preferred Stock with a
    liquidation preference of $100,000 per share
    ( Series A Preferred Securities ) to third party
    investors, and investing the proceeds in certain assets,
    consisting predominately of mortgage-backed securities from the
    Company. Dividends on the Series A Preferred Securities, if
    declared, will accrue and be payable quarterly, in arrears, at a
    rate per annum of 6.091 percent from December 22, 2006
    to, but excluding, January 15, 2012. After January 15,
    2012, the rate will be equal to three-month LIBOR for the
    related dividend period plus 1.147 percent. If USB Realty
    Corp. has not declared a dividend on the Series A Preferred
    Securities before the dividend payment date for any dividend
    period, such dividend shall not be cumulative and shall cease to
    accrue and be payable, and USB Realty Corp. will have no
    obligation to pay dividends accrued for such dividend period,
    whether or not dividends on the Series A Preferred
    Securities are declared for any future dividend period.

The Series A Preferred Securities will be redeemable, in
    whole or in part, at the option of USB Realty Corp. on the
    dividend payment date occurring in January 2012 and each fifth
    anniversary thereafter, or in whole but not in part, at the
    option of USB Realty Corp. on any dividend date before or after
    January 2012 that is not a five-year date. Any redemption will
    be subject to the approval of the Office of the Comptroller of
    the Currency.

Note 16
        
        EARNINGS
    PER
    SHARE   

The components of earnings per share were:

For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    options and warrants to purchase 67 million,
    13 million and 1 million shares, respectively, were
    outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted
    earnings per share because they were antidilutive. Convertible
    senior debentures that could potentially be converted into
    shares of the Company s common stock pursuant to specified
    formulas, were not included in the computation of diluted
    earnings per share to the extent the conversions were
    antidilutive.

Note 17        EMPLOYEE
    BENEFITS 

Employee
    Investment Plan    The
    Company has a defined contribution retirement savings plan which
    allows qualified employees to make contributions up to
    75 percent of their annual compensation, subject to
    Internal Revenue Service limits, through salary deductions under
    Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Employee
    contributions are invested,

92     U.S. BANCORP

at the employees  direction, among a variety of investment
    alternatives. Employee contributions are 100 percent
    matched by the Company, up to four percent of an employee s
    eligible annual compensation. The Company s matching
    contribution vests immediately. Although the matching
    contribution is initially invested in the Company s common
    stock, an employee can reinvest the matching contributions among
    various investment alternatives. Total expense was
    $76 million, $62 million and $58 million in 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively.

Pension Plans
       Pension benefits are
    provided to substantially all employees based on years of
    service, multiplied by a percentage of their final average pay.
    Employees become vested upon completing five years of vesting
    service. In addition, two cash balance pension benefit plans
    exist and only investment or interest credits continue to be
    credited to participants  accounts. Plan assets consist of
    various equities, equity mutual funds and other miscellaneous
    assets.

In general, the Company s pension plans  objectives
    include maintaining a funded status sufficient to meet
    participant benefit obligations over time while reducing
    long-term funding requirements and pension costs. The Company
    has an established process for evaluating all the plans, their
    performance and significant plan assumptions, including the
    assumed discount rate and the long-term rate of return
    ( LTROR ). Annually, the Company s Compensation
    Committee ( the Committee ), assisted by outside
    consultants, evaluates plan objectives, funding policies and
    plan investment policies considering its long-term investment
    time horizon and asset allocation strategies. The process also
    evaluates significant plan assumptions. Although plan
    assumptions are established annually, the Company may update its
    analysis on an interim basis in order to be responsive to
    significant events that occur during the year, such as plan
    mergers and amendments.

In addition to the funded qualified pension plans, the Company
    maintains non-qualified plans that are unfunded. The assumptions
    used in computing the present value of the accumulated benefit
    obligation, the projected benefit obligation and net pension
    expense are substantially consistent with those assumptions used
    for the funded qualified plans.

Funding
    Practices     The
    Company s funding policy is to contribute amounts to its
    plans sufficient to meet the minimum funding requirements of the
    Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, plus such
    additional amounts as the Company determines to be appropriate.
    The Company made no contributions to the qualified pension plans
    in 2008 or 2007, and anticipates no contributions in 2009. Any
    contributions made to the plans are invested in accordance with
    established investment policies and asset allocation strategies.

Investment
    Policies and Asset Allocation
        In establishing its
    investment policies and asset allocation strategies, the Company
    considers expected returns and the volatility associated with
    different strategies. The independent consultant performs
    modeling that projects numerous outcomes using a broad range of
    possible scenarios, including a mix of possible rates of
    inflation and economic growth. Starting with current economic
    information, the model bases its projections on past
    relationships between inflation, fixed income rates and equity
    returns when these types of economic conditions have existed
    over the previous 30 years, both in the U.S. and in
    foreign countries.

Generally, based on historical performance of the various
    investment asset classes, investments in equities have
    outperformed other investment classes but are subject to higher
    volatility. While an asset allocation including debt securities
    and other assets generally has lower volatility and may provide
    protection in a declining interest rate environment, it limits
    the pension plan s long-term up-side potential. Given the
    pension plans  investment horizon and the financial
    viability of the Company to meet its funding objectives, the
    Committee has determined that an asset allocation strategy
    investing principally in equities diversified among various
    domestic equity categories and international equities is
    appropriate. Domestic and international equities declined
    significantly in 2008, resulting in an under-funded position for
    the qualified pension plans of $391 million. At
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, plan assets of the qualified
    pension plans included mutual funds that have asset management
    arrangements with related parties totaling $791 million and
    $1.3 billion, respectively.

U.S. BANCORP   93 

The following table, which is unaudited, except for the actual
    asset allocations at December 31, 2008 and 2007, provides a
    summary of asset allocations adopted by the Company compared
    with a typical asset allocation alternative:

(a)

The
    LTROR assumed for the target asset allocation strategy of
    8.5 percent is based on a range of estimates evaluated by
    the Company which were centered around the compound expected
    return of 9.2 percent reduced for estimated asset
    management and administrative fees.   

(b)

Typical
    asset mix represents the median asset allocation percentages of
    plans advised by a third-party benefit consulting
    firm.   

In accordance with its existing practices, the independent
    pension consultant utilized by the Company updated the analysis
    of expected rates of return and evaluated peer group data,
    market conditions and other factors relevant to determining the
    LTROR. The Company determined an LTROR assumption of
    8.5 percent reflected expected returns based on current
    economic conditions and plan assets. Regardless of the extent of
    the Company s analysis of alternative asset allocation
    strategies, economic scenarios and possible outcomes, plan
    assumptions developed for the LTROR are subject to imprecision
    and changes in economic factors. As a result of the modeling
    imprecision and uncertainty, the Company considers a range of
    potential expected rates of return, economic conditions for
    several scenarios, historical performance relative to assumed
    rates of return and asset allocation and LTROR information for a
    peer group in establishing its assumptions.

Postretirement
    Welfare Plan    In addition
    to providing pension benefits, the Company provides health care
    and death benefits to certain retired employees. Generally, all
    active employees may become eligible for retiree health care
    benefits by meeting defined age and service requirements. The
    Company may also subsidize the cost of coverage for employees
    meeting certain age and service requirements. The medical plan
    contains other cost-sharing features such as deductibles and
    coinsurance. The estimated cost of these retiree benefit
    payments is accrued during the employees  active service.

94     U.S. BANCORP

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 158 ( SFAS 158 ),  Employers 
    Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
    Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
    88, 106, and 132(R) , the Company eliminated its early
    measurement date for its retirement plans during 2008, resulting
    in the Company recording a cumulative effect accounting
    adjustment to decrease beginning retained earnings by
    $4 million (net of tax) and increase accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) by $3 million (net of tax).

The following table summarizes benefit obligation and plan asset
    activity for the retirement plans:

The following table provides information for pension plans with
    benefit obligations in excess of plan assets:

U.S. BANCORP   95 

The following table sets forth the components of net periodic
    benefit cost and other amounts recognized in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) for the retirement plans:

(a)

The
    estimated net loss and prior service credit for the defined
    benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit cost
    in 2009 are $49 million and $(6) million,
    respectively.   

(b)

The
    estimated net gain for the postretirement welfare plan that will
    be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
    into net periodic benefit cost in 2009 is
    $7 million.   

The following table sets forth weighted average assumptions used
    to determine end of year obligations:

(a)

For
    2008, the discount rate was developed using Towers Perrin s
    cash flow matching bond model with a modified duration for the
    pension plans and postretirement welfare plan of 12.5 and
    8.1 years, respectively. For 2007, the discount rate was
    developed using Towers Perrin s cash flow matching bond
    model with a modified duration for the pension plans and
    postretirement welfare plan of 12.5 and 7.9 years,
    respectively.   

(b)

The
    pre-65 and post-65 rates are assumed to decrease gradually to
    5.5 percent by 2011 and 6.0 percent by 2014,
    respectively, and remain at these levels thereafter.   

*

Not
    applicable   

The following table sets forth weighted average assumptions used
    to determine net periodic benefit cost:

96     U.S. BANCORP

In 2009, the Company expects to contribute $22 million to
    its non-qualified pension plans and to make no contributions to
    its postretirement welfare plan.

The following benefit payments are expected to be paid from the
    retirement plans:

(a)

Net
    of participant contributions.   

Federal subsidies expected to be received by the postretirement
    welfare plan are not significant to the Company.

Note 18        STOCK-BASED
    COMPENSATION 

As part of its employee and director compensation programs, the
    Company may grant certain stock awards under the provisions of
    the existing stock compensation plans, including plans assumed
    in acquisitions. The plans provide for grants of options to
    purchase shares of common stock at a fixed price equal to the
    fair value of the underlying stock at the date of grant. Option
    grants are generally exercisable up to ten years from the date
    of grant. In addition, the plans provide for grants of shares of
    common stock or stock units that are subject to restriction on
    transfer prior to vesting. Most stock awards vest over three to
    five years and are subject to forfeiture if certain vesting
    requirements are not met. Stock incentive plans of acquired
    companies are generally terminated at the merger closing dates.
    Option holders under such plans receive the Company s
    common stock, or options to buy the Company s stock, based
    on the conversion terms of the various merger agreements. The
    historical stock award information presented below has been
    restated to reflect the options originally granted under
    acquired companies  plans. At December 31, 2008, there were
    45 million shares (subject to adjustment for forfeitures)
    available for grant under various plans.

STOCK OPTIONS AWARDS

The following is a summary of stock options outstanding and
    exercised under various stock options plans of the Company:

(a)

Options
    cancelled includes both non-vested (i.e., forfeitures) and
    vested options.   

(b)

Outstanding
    options include stock-based awards that may be forfeited in
    future periods, however the impact of the estimated forfeitures
    is reflected in compensation expense.   

U.S. BANCORP   97 

Stock-based compensation expense is based on the estimated fair
    value of the award at the date of grant or modification. The
    fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of
    grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, requiring
    the use of subjective assumptions. Because employee stock
    options have characteristics that differ from those of traded
    options, including vesting provisions and trading limitations
    that impact their liquidity, the determined value used to
    measure compensation expense may vary from their actual fair
    value. The following table includes the weighted average
    estimated fair value and assumptions utilized by the Company for
    newly issued grants:

Expected stock volatility is based on several factors including
    the historical volatility of the Company s stock, implied
    volatility determined from traded options and other factors. The
    Company uses historical data to estimate option exercises and
    employee terminations to estimate the expected life of options.
    The risk-free interest rate for the expected life of the options
    is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect on the date
    of grant. The expected dividend yield is based on the
    Company s expected dividend yield over the life of the
    options.

The following summarizes certain stock option activity of the
    Company:

To satisfy option exercises, the Company predominantly uses
    treasury stock.

Additional information regarding stock options outstanding as of
    December 31, 2008, is as follows:

RESTRICTED STOCK
    AWARDS

A summary of the status of the Company s restricted shares
    of stock is presented below:

The total fair value of shares vested was $29 million,
    $45 million, and $15 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

Stock-based compensation expense was $85 million,
    $77 million and $101 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. On an after-tax basis, stock-based compensation

98     U.S. BANCORP

was $53 million, $48 million and $64 million for
    2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. As of December 31,
    2008, there was $139 million of total unrecognized
    compensation cost related to nonvested share-based arrangements
    granted under the plans. That cost is expected to be recognized
    over a weighted-average period of 3 years as compensation
    expense.

Note
    19        INCOME
    TAXES 

The components of income tax expense were:

A reconciliation of expected income tax expense at the federal
    statutory rate of 35 percent to the Company s
    applicable income tax expense follows:

The tax effects of fair value adjustments on securities
    available-for-sale, derivative instruments in cash flow hedges
    and certain tax benefits related to stock options are recorded
    directly to shareholders  equity as part of other
    comprehensive income (loss).

In preparing its tax returns, the Company is required to
    interpret complex tax laws and regulations and utilize income
    and cost allocation methods to determine its taxable income. On
    an ongoing basis, the Company is subject to examinations by
    federal, state and local government taxing authorities that may
    give rise to differing interpretations of these complex laws,
    regulations and methods. Due to the nature of the examination
    process, it generally takes years before these examinations are
    completed and matters are resolved. Included in 2007 and 2006
    were reductions in income tax expense and associated liabilities
    related to the resolution of various federal and state income
    tax examinations. The federal income tax examination resolutions
    cover substantially all of the Company s legal entities for
    the years through 2004. The Company also resolved several state
    income tax examinations which cover varying years from 2001
    through 2006 in different states. The resolution of these cycles
    was the result of negotiations held between the Company and
    representatives of various taxing authorities throughout the
    examinations. During 2007 and 2008, the Internal Revenue Service
    examined the Company s tax returns for the years ended
    December 31, 2005 and 2006. The resolution of that
    examination was still pending at December 31, 2008. The
    years open to examination by state and local government
    authorities vary by jurisdiction.

A reconciliation of the change in the federal, state and foreign
    unrecognized tax positions balances are summarized as follows:

U.S. BANCORP   99 

The total amount of unrecognized tax positions that, if
    recognized would impact the effective income tax rate as of
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, were $187 million and
    $192 million, respectively. The Company classifies interest
    and penalties related to unrecognized tax positions as a
    component of income tax expense. During the years ended
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company recognized
    approximately $19 million and $13 million,
    respectively, in interest on unrecognized tax positions and had
    approximately $41 million accrued at December 31, 2008.

While certain examinations may be concluded, statutes may lapse
    or other developments may occur, the Company does not believe a
    significant increase or decrease in the uncertain tax positions
    will occur over the next twelve months.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflect the tax
    effect of estimated temporary differences between the carrying
    amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
    purposes and the amounts used for the same items for income tax
    reporting purposes.

The significant components of the Company s net deferred
    tax asset (liability) as of December 31 were:

The Company has established a valuation allowance to offset
    deferred tax assets related to federal, state and foreign net
    operating loss carryforwards which are subject to various
    limitations under the respective income tax laws and some of
    which may expire unused. The Company has approximately
    $487 million of federal, state and foreign net operating
    loss carryforwards which expire at various times through 2024.
    Management has determined a valuation reserve is not required
    for the remaining net deferred tax assets because it is more
    likely than not these assets will be realized through carry back
    to taxable income in prior years, future reversals of existing
    taxable temporary differences and future taxable income.

Certain events covered by Internal Revenue Code section 593(e),
    which was not repealed, will trigger a recapture of base year
    reserves of acquired thrift institutions.  The base year
    reserves of acquired thrift institutions would be recaptured if
    an entity ceases to qualify as a bank for federal income tax
    purposes.  The base year reserves of thrift institutions also
    remain subject to income tax penalty provisions that, in
    general, require recapture upon certain stock redemptions of,
    and excess distributions to, stockholders.  At December 31,
    2008, retained earnings included approximately $102 million
    of base year reserves for which no deferred federal income tax
    liability has been recognized.

Note
    20        DERIVATIVE
    INSTRUMENTS 

In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into
    derivative transactions to manage its interest rate, prepayment
    and foreign currency risks and to accommodate the business
    requirements of its customers.  The Company does not enter into
    derivative transactions for speculative purposes.  Refer to
    Note 1  Significant Accounting Policies  in the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of
    the Company s accounting policies for derivative
    instruments.  For information related to derivative

100     U.S. BANCORP

positions held for asset and liability management purposes and
    customer-related derivative positions, see Table 18
     Derivative Positions,  included in Management s
    Discussion and Analysis, which is incorporated by reference in
    these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

ASSET AND LIABILITY
    MANAGEMENT POSITIONS

Cash Flow Hedges
       The Company had
    $12.0 billion notional amount of derivatives designated as
    cash flow hedges at December 31, 2008.  These derivatives
    are interest rate swaps that are hedges of the forecasted cash
    flows from the underlying variable-rate debt. All cash flow
    hedges were highly effective for the year ended
    December 31, 2008, and the change in fair value attributed
    to hedge ineffectiveness was not material.

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) included a deferred after-tax net
    loss of $650 million and $219 million, respectively,
    related to cash flow hedges.  The unrealized loss will be
    reflected in earnings when the related cash flows or hedged
    transactions occur and will offset the related performance of
    the hedged items.  The occurrence of the forecasted cash flows
    and hedged transactions remains probable.  The estimated amount
    of after-tax loss to be reclassified from accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) into earnings during 2009 is
    $200 million.  This includes gains and losses related to
    hedges that were terminated early and the forecasted
    transactions are still probable.

Fair Value
    Hedges     The Company had
    $4.5 billion notional amount of derivatives designated as
    fair value hedges at December 31, 2008.  These derivatives
    are primarily interest rate swaps that hedge the change in fair
    value related to interest rate changes of underlying fixed-rate
    debt, junior subordinated debentures and deposit obligations.
    All fair value hedges were highly effective for the year ended
    December 31, 2008.  The change in fair value attributed to hedge
    ineffectiveness was a loss of $3 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2008.

Net Investment
    Hedges     The Company
    enters into derivatives to protect its net investment in certain
    foreign operations.  The Company uses forward commitments to
    sell specified amounts of certain foreign currencies and foreign
    denominated debt to hedge its capital volatility risk associated
    with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.  The
    Company had $878 million notional amount of derivatives
    designated as net investment hedges at December 31, 2008.
    The net amount of gains or losses included in the cumulative
    translation adjustment for 2008 was not significant.

Other Derivative
    Positions     The Company
    has derivative positions that are used for interest rate risk
    and other risk management purposes but are not designated as
    cash flow hedges or fair value hedges in accordance with the
    provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
    Hedging Activities. 

At December 31, 2008, the Company had forward commitments
    to sell $8.4 billion of residential mortgage loans,
    intended to hedge the Company s interest rate risk related
    to $9.2 billion of unfunded residential mortgage loan
    commitments and $2.7 billion of MLHFS. Gains and losses on
    forward sale commitments and the unfunded loan commitments are
    included in mortgage banking revenue. At December 31, 2008,
    the Company also held $20.8 billion notional amount of U.S.
    Treasury futures, options on U.S. Treasury futures contracts and
    forward commitments to buy residential mortgage loans to
    economically hedge the change in fair value of its residential
    MSRs.

CUSTOMER-RELATED
    POSITIONS

The Company acts as a seller and buyer of interest rate
    contracts and foreign exchange rate contracts on behalf of
    customers.  At December 31, 2008, the Company had
    $56.8 billion notional amount of aggregate customer
    derivative positions, including offsetting positions taken by
    the Company to minimize its market and liquidity risks. The
    positions include $48.4 billion of interest rate swaps,
    caps, and floors and $8.4 billion of foreign exchange rate
    contracts.  Gains or losses on customer-related transactions
    were not significant for the year ended December 31, 2008.

Note 21        FAIR
    VALUES OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 

The Company uses fair value measurements for the initial
    recording of certain assets and liabilities, periodic
    remeasurement of certain assets and liabilities, and
    disclosures. Derivatives, investment securities, certain MLHFS
    and MSRs are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis.
    Additionally, from time to time, the Company may be required to
    record at fair value other assets on a nonrecurring basis, such
    as loans held for sale, loans held for investment and certain
    other assets. These nonrecurring fair value adjustments
    typically involve application of lower-of-cost-or-fair value
    accounting or impairment write-downs of individual assets.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted
    SFAS 157 which defines fair value, establishes a framework
    for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair
    value measurements. Fair value is defined under SFAS 157 as
    the exchange price that would be received for an asset or

U.S. BANCORP   101 

paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or
    most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an
    orderly transaction between market participants on the
    measurement date. Under SFAS 157, a fair value measurement
    should reflect assumptions market participants would use in
    pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions about the
    risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of
    a restriction on the sale or use of an asset, and the risk of
    nonperformance. Upon adoption of SFAS 157, the Company
    considered the principal market and nonperformance risk when
    determining the fair value measurements for derivatives which
    reduced trading revenue by $62 million. SFAS 157 no
    longer allows the deferral of origination fees or compensation
    expense related to the closing of MLHFS for which the fair value
    option is elected, resulting in additional mortgage banking
    revenue and compensation expense in the period the MLHFS are
    originated.

SFAS 157 specifies a three level hierarchy for valuation
    techniques used to measure financial assets and financial
    liabilities at fair value. This hierarchy is based on whether
    the valuation inputs are observable or unobservable. These
    levels are:

Level 1   Quoted prices in active markets for
    identical assets or liabilities. Level 1 includes U.S.
    Treasury and exchange-traded instruments.

Level 2   Observable inputs other than
    Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or
    liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or
    other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by
    observable market data for substantially the full term of the
    assets or liabilities. Level 2 includes debt securities
    that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments
    and which are valued using third party pricing services;
    derivative contracts whose value is determined using a pricing
    model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be
    derived principally from or corroborated by observable market
    data; and MLHFS whose values are determined using quoted prices
    for similar assets or pricing models with inputs that are
    observable in the market or can be corroborated by observable
    market data.

Level 3   Unobservable inputs that are supported
    by little or no market activity and that are significant to the
    fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and
    liabilities include financial instruments whose values are
    determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow
    methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for
    which the determination of fair value requires significant
    management judgment or estimation. This category includes
    residential MSRs, certain debt securities, including the
    Company s SIV-related investments and certain of its
    non-agency mortgage-backed securities, and certain derivative
    contracts.

The following section describes the valuation methodologies used
    by the Company to measure financial assets and liabilities at
    fair value and for estimating fair value for financial
    instruments not recorded at fair value as required under
    SFAS 107 ( SFAS 107 ),  Disclosures
    about Fair Value of Financial Instruments . In addition,
    for financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value, the
    following section includes an indication of the level of the
    fair value hierarchy in which the assets or liabilities are
    classified. Where appropriate, the description includes
    information about the valuation models and key inputs to those
    models.

Derivatives
       Exchange-traded
    derivatives are measured at fair value based on quoted market
    (i.e. exchange) prices. Because prices are available for the
    identical instrument in an active market, these fair values are
    classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.

The majority of derivatives held by the Company are executed
    over-the-counter and are valued using standard cash flow,
    Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo valuation techniques. The models
    incorporate various inputs, depending on the type of derivative,
    including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates and
    volatility. In addition, all derivative values incorporate an
    assessment of the risk of counterparty nonperformance which is
    measured based on the Company s evaluation of credit risk
    and incorporates external assessments of credit risk, where
    available. In its assessment of nonperformance risk, the Company
    considers its ability to net derivative positions under master
    netting agreements, as well as collateral received or provided
    under collateral support agreements. The majority of these
    derivatives are classified within Level 2 of the fair value
    hierarchy as the significant inputs to the models are
    observable. An exception to the Level 2 classification are
    certain derivative transactions for which the risk of
    nonperformance cannot be observed in the market. These
    derivatives are classified within Level 3 of the fair value
    hierarchy. In addition, commitments to sell, purchase and
    originate mortgage loans that meet the requirements of a
    derivative, are valued by pricing models that include market
    observable and unobservable inputs. Due to the significant
    unobservable inputs, these commitments are classified within
    Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.

Cash and Cash
    Equivalents    The carrying
    value of cash, amounts due from banks, federal funds sold and
    securities purchased under resale agreements was assumed to
    approximate fair value.

102     U.S. BANCORP

Investments
       When available, quoted
    market prices are used to determine the fair value of investment
    securities and such items are classified within Level 1 of
    the fair value hierarchy.

For other securities, the Company determines fair value based on
    various sources and may apply matrix pricing with observable
    prices for similar bonds where a price for the identical bond is
    not observable. Prices are verified, where possible, to prices
    of observable market trades as obtained from independent
    sources. Securities measured at fair value by such methods are
    classified as Level 2.

For securities for which there are no market trades, the fair
    value is based on management s best estimates. These
    securities are categorized as Level 3. For the SIV-related
    investments, the majority of the collateral is residential
    mortgage-backed securities with the remaining collateral
    consisting of commercial mortgage-backed and asset-backed
    securities, collateralized debt obligations and collateralized
    loan obligations.

The estimation process for Level 3 securities involves the
    use of a cash-flow methodology and other market valuation
    techniques involving management judgment. The cash-flow
    methodology uses assumptions that reflect housing price changes,
    interest rates, borrower loan-to-value and borrower credit
    scores. Inputs used for estimation are refined and updated to
    reflect market developments. The fair value of these securities
    are sensitive to changes in the estimated cash flows and related
    assumptions used so these variables are updated on a regular
    basis. The cash flows are aggregated and passed through a
    distribution waterfall to determine allocation to tranches. Cash
    flows are discounted at an interest rate to estimate the fair
    value of the security held by the Company. Discount rates
    reflect current market conditions including the relative risk
    and market liquidity of these investment securities. The primary
    drivers that impact the valuations of these securities are the
    prepayment and default rates associated with the underlying
    collateral, as well as the discount rate used to calculate the
    present value of the projected cash flows.

Certain mortgage
    loans held for sale
       MLHFS measured at fair
    value are initially valued at the transaction price and are
    subsequently valued by comparison to instruments with similar
    collateral and risk profiles. Included in mortgage banking
    revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008, was
    $65 million of net losses from the initial measurement and
    subsequent changes to fair value of the MLHFS under the fair
    value option. Changes in fair value due to instrument specific
    credit risk were immaterial. The fair value of MLHFS was $2.7
    billion as of December 31, 2008, which exceeded the unpaid
    principal balance by $79 million as of that date. MLHFS are
    Level 2. Related interest income for MLHFS continues to be
    measured based on contractual interest rates and reported as
    interest income in the Consolidated Statement of Income.

Loans
       The loan portfolio
    includes adjustable and fixed-rate loans, the fair value of
    which was estimated using discounted cash flow analyses and
    other valuation techniques. To calculate discounted cash flows,
    the loans were aggregated into pools of similar types and
    expected repayment terms. The expected cash flows of loans
    considered historical prepayment experiences and estimated
    credit losses for nonperforming loans and were discounted using
    current rates offered to borrowers of similar credit
    characteristics. Generally loan fair values reflect Level 3
    information.

Mortgage
    servicing rights    MSRs
    are valued using a cash flow methodology and third party prices,
    if available. Accordingly, MSRs are classified in Level 3.
    Refer to Note 10 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further information on the methodology used by
    the Company in determining the fair value of its MSRs.

Deposit
    Liabilities    The fair
    value of demand deposits, savings accounts and certain money
    market deposits is equal to the amount payable on demand at
    year-end. The fair value of fixed-rate certificates of deposit
    was estimated by discounting the contractual cash flow using
    current rates for deposits with similar maturities.

Short-term
    Borrowings    Federal funds
    purchased, securities sold under agreements to repurchase,
    commercial paper and other short-term funds borrowed have
    floating rates or short-term maturities. The fair value of
    short-term borrowings was determined by discounting contractual
    cash flows using current market rates.

Long-term Debt
       The fair value for most
    long-term debt was determined by discounting contractual cash
    flows using current market rates. Junior subordinated debt
    instruments were valued using market quotes.

Loan Commitments,
    Letters of Credit and Guarantees
       The fair value of
    commitments, letters of credit and guarantees represents the
    estimated costs to terminate or otherwise settle the obligations
    with a third-party. The fair value of residential mortgage
    commitments is estimated based on observable inputs. Other loan
    commitments, letters of credit and guarantees are not actively
    traded, and the Company estimates their fair value based on the
    related amount of unamortized deferred commitment fees adjusted
    for the probable losses for these arrangements.

U.S. BANCORP   103 

The following table summarizes the balances of assets and
    liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis:

(a)

Financial
    Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 39
    ( FIN 39 ),  Offsetting of Amounts Related
    to Certain Contracts , permits the netting of derivative
    receivables and derivative payables when a legally enforceable
    master netting agreement exists between the Company and a
    derivative counterparty. A master netting agreement is an
    agreement between two counterparties who have multiple
    derivative contracts with each other that provide for the net
    settlement of contracts through a single payment, in a single
    currency, in the event of default on or termination of any one
    contract.   

(b)

Represents
    primarily derivative receivables and trading
    securities.   

The table below presents the changes in fair value for all
    assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring
    basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3).
    Level 3 instruments presented in the table include
    SIV-related investments, certain non-agency mortgage-backed
    securities, certain trust-preferred securities investments, MSRs
    and derivatives:

(a)

Included
    in securities gains (losses)   

(b)

Included
    in mortgage banking revenue.   

(c)

Approximately
    $1,129 million included in other noninterest income and
    $167 million included in mortgage banking revenue.   

(d)

Approximately
    $1 million included in other noninterest income and
    $(93) million included in mortgage banking
    revenue.   

The Company may also be required periodically to measure certain
    other financial assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
    These measurements of fair value usually result from the
    application of lower-of-cost-or-market accounting or impairment
    write-downs of individual assets. The following table summarizes
    the adjusted carrying values and the level of valuation
    assumptions for assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring
    basis:

(a)

Represents
    carrying value and related write-downs of loans for which
    adjustments are based on the appraised value of the collateral,
    excluding loans fully charged-off.   

(b)

Represents
    the fair value and related losses of foreclosed properties that
    were remeasured at fair value subsequent to initial
    acquisition.   

FAIR VALUE OPTION

The following table summarizes the differences between the
    aggregate fair value of MLHFS for which the fair value option
    has been elected and the aggregate unpaid principal amount the
    Company is contractually obligated to receive at maturity:

104     U.S. BANCORP

Disclosures about
    Fair Value of Financial Instruments
       The table below
    summarizes the estimated fair value for financial instruments as
    of December 31, 2008 and 2007, excluding financial
    instruments where fair value approximates carrying value. In
    accordance with SFAS 107, the Company did not include
    assets and liabilities that are not financial instruments in the
    disclosure, such as the value of the long-term relationships
    with deposit, credit card and trust customers, premises and
    equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, deferred taxes and
    other liabilities. Additionally, the amounts in the table have
    not been updated since December 31, 2008, therefore the
    valuations may have changed significantly since that point in
    time. For these reasons, the total of the fair value
    calculations presented does not represent, and should not be
    construed to represent, the underlying value of the Company.

(a)

Balance
    excludes mortgages held for sale for which the fair value option
    under FAS 159 was elected.   

The fair value of unfunded commitments, standby letters of
    credit and other guarantees is approximately equal to their
    carrying value. The carrying value of unfunded commitments and
    standby letters of credit was $238 million. The carrying value
    of other guarantees was $302 million.

Note 22        GUARANTEES
    AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 

COMMITMENTS TO
    EXTEND CREDIT

Commitments to extend credit are legally binding and generally
    have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses. The
    contractual amount represents the Company s exposure to
    credit loss, in the event of default by the borrower. The
    Company manages this credit risk by using the same credit
    policies it applies to loans. Collateral is obtained to secure
    commitments based on management s credit assessment of the
    borrower. The collateral may include marketable securities,
    receivables, inventory, equipment and real estate. Since the
    Company expects many of the commitments to expire without being
    drawn, total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent the
    Company s future liquidity requirements. In addition, the
    commitments include consumer credit lines that are cancelable
    upon notification to the consumer.

LETTERS OF CREDIT

Standby letters of credit are commitments the Company issues to
    guarantee the performance of a customer to a third-party. The
    guarantees frequently support public and private borrowing
    arrangements, including commercial paper issuances, bond
    financings and other similar transactions. The Company issues
    commercial letters of credit on behalf of customers to ensure
    payment or collection in connection with trade transactions. In
    the event of a customer s nonperformance, the
    Company s credit loss exposure is the same as in any
    extension of credit, up to the letter s contractual amount.
    Management assesses the borrower s credit to determine the
    necessary collateral, which may include marketable securities,
    receivables, inventory, equipment and real estate. Since the
    conditions requiring the Company to fund letters of credit may
    not occur, the Company expects its liquidity requirements to be
    less than the total outstanding commitments. The maximum
    potential future payments guaranteed by the Company under
    standby letter of credit arrangements at December 31, 2008,
    were approximately $16.1 billion with a weighted-average
    term of approximately 22 months. The estimated fair value
    of standby letters of credit was approximately $85 million
    at December 31, 2008.

U.S. BANCORP   105 

The contract or notional amounts of commitments to extend credit
    and letters of credit at December 31, 2008, were as follows:

(a)

Primarily
    cancelable at the Company s discretion.   

LEASE COMMITMENTS

Rental expense for operating leases totaled $226 million in
    2008, $207 million in 2007 and $193 million in 2006.
    Future minimum payments, net of sublease rentals, under
    capitalized leases and noncancelable operating leases with
    initial or remaining terms of one year or more, consisted of the
    following at December 31, 2008:

GUARANTEES

Guarantees are contingent commitments issued by the Company to
    customers or other third-parties. The Company s guarantees
    primarily include parent guarantees related to
    subsidiaries  third-party borrowing arrangements;
    third-party performance guarantees inherent in the
    Company s business operations, such as indemnified
    securities lending programs and merchant charge-back guarantees;
    indemnification or buy-back provisions related to certain asset
    sales; and contingent consideration arrangements related to
    acquisitions. For certain guarantees, the Company has recorded a
    liability related to the potential obligation, or has access to
    collateral to support the guarantee or through the exercise of
    other recourse provisions can offset some or all of the maximum
    potential future payments made under these guarantees.

Third-Party
    Borrowing Arrangements
       The Company provides
    guarantees to third-parties as a part of certain
    subsidiaries  borrowing arrangements, primarily
    representing guaranteed operating or capital lease payments or
    other debt obligations with maturity dates extending through
    2013. The maximum potential future payments guaranteed by the
    Company under these arrangements were approximately
    $312 million at December 31, 2008.

Commitments from
    Securities Lending    The
    Company participates in securities lending activities by acting
    as the customer s agent involving the loan of securities.
    The Company indemnifies customers for the difference between the
    market value of the securities lent and the market value of the
    collateral received. Cash collateralizes these transactions. The
    maximum potential future payments guaranteed by the Company
    under these arrangements were approximately $5.8 billion at
    December 31, 2008, and represented the market value of the
    securities lent to third-parties. At December 31, 2008, the
    Company held assets with a market value of $6.0 billion as
    collateral for these arrangements.

Assets Sales
       The Company has provided
    guarantees to certain third-parties in connection with the sale
    of certain assets, primarily loan portfolios and low-income
    housing tax credits. These guarantees are generally in the form
    of asset buy-back or make-whole provisions that are triggered
    upon a credit event or a change in the tax-qualifying status of
    the related projects, as applicable, and remain in effect until
    the loans are collected or final tax credits are realized,
    respectively. The maximum potential future payments guaranteed
    by the Company under these arrangements were approximately
    $503 million at December 31, 2008, and represented the
    proceeds or the guaranteed portion received from the buyer in
    these transactions where the buy-back or make-whole provisions
    have not yet expired. Recourse available to the Company includes
    guarantees from the Small Business Administration (for SBA loans
    sold), recourse against the correspondent that originated the
    loan or to the private mortgage issuer, the right to collect
    payments from the debtors,
     and/or  the
    right to liquidate the underlying collateral, if any, and retain
    the proceeds. Based on its established loan-to-value guidelines,
    the Company believes the recourse available is sufficient to
    recover future payments, if any, under the loan buy-back
    guarantees.

Merchant
    Processing    The Company,
    through its subsidiaries, provides merchant processing services.
    Under the rules of credit card associations, a merchant
    processor retains a contingent liability for credit card
    transactions processed. This contingent liability arises in the
    event of a billing dispute between the merchant and a cardholder
    that is ultimately resolved in the cardholder s favor. In
    this

106     U.S. BANCORP

situation, the transaction is  charged-back  to the
    merchant and the disputed amount is credited or otherwise
    refunded to the cardholder. If the Company is unable to collect
    this amount from the merchant, it bears the loss for the amount
    of the refund paid to the cardholder.

A cardholder, through its issuing bank, generally has until the
    latter of up to four months after the date the transaction is
    processed or the receipt of the product or service to present a
    charge-back to the Company as the merchant processor. The
    absolute maximum potential liability is estimated to be the
    total volume of credit card transactions that meet the
    associations  requirements to be valid charge-back
    transactions at any given time. Management estimates that the
    maximum potential exposure for charge-backs would approximate
    the total amount of merchant transactions processed through the
    credit card associations for the last four months. For the last
    four months this amount totaled approximately
    $66.2 billion. In most cases, this contingent liability is
    unlikely to arise, as most products and services are delivered
    when purchased and amounts are refunded when items are returned
    to merchants. However, where the product or service is not
    provided until a future date ( future delivery ), the
    potential for this contingent liability increases. To mitigate
    this risk, the Company may require the merchant to make an
    escrow deposit, may place maximum volume limitations on future
    delivery transactions processed by the merchant at any point in
    time, or may require various credit enhancements (including
    letters of credit and bank guarantees). Also, merchant
    processing contracts may include event triggers to provide the
    Company more financial and operational control in the event of
    financial deterioration of the merchant.

The Company s primary exposure to future delivery is
    related to merchant processing for airlines. The Company
    currently processes card transactions in the United States,
    Canada and Europe for airlines. In the event of liquidation of
    these merchants, the Company could become financially liable for
    refunding tickets purchased through the credit card associations
    under the charge-back provisions. Charge-back risk related to
    these merchants is evaluated in a manner similar to credit risk
    assessments and, as such, merchant processing contracts contain
    various provisions to protect the Company in the event of
    default. At December 31, 2008, the value of airline tickets
    purchased to be delivered at a future date was
    $3.4 billion. The Company held collateral of
    $885 million in escrow deposits, letters of credit and
    indemnities from financial institutions, and liens on various
    assets. With respect to future delivery risk for other
    merchants, the Company held $83 million of merchant escrow
    deposits as collateral. In addition to specific collateral or
    other credit enhancements, the Company maintains a liability for
    its implied guarantees associated with future delivery. At
    December 31, 2008, the liability was $38 million
    primarily related to these airline processing arrangements.

In the normal course of business, the Company has unresolved
    charge-backs that are in process of resolution. The Company
    assesses the likelihood of its potential liability based on the
    extent and nature of unresolved charge-backs and its historical
    loss experience. At December 31, 2008, the Company had a
    recorded liability for potential losses of $18 million.

Contingent
    Consideration Arrangements
       The Company has
    contingent payment obligations related to certain business
    combination transactions. Payments are guaranteed as long as
    certain post-acquisition performance-based criteria are met or
    customer relationships are maintained. At December 31,
    2008, the maximum potential future payments required to be made
    by the Company under these arrangements was approximately
    $9.5 million. If required, the majority of these contingent
    payments are payable within the next 12 months.

Minimum Revenue
    Guarantees    In the normal
    course of business, the Company may enter into revenue share
    agreements with third party business partners who generate
    customer referrals or provide marketing or other services
    related to the generation of revenue. In certain of these
    agreements, the Company may guarantee that a minimum amount of
    revenue share payments will be made to the third party over a
    specified period of time. At December 31, 2008, the maximum
    potential future payments required to be made by the Company
    under these agreements was $16 million.

Other Guarantees
       On September 25,
    2008, the Company entered into a support agreement with a money
    market fund managed by FAF Advisors, Inc., an affiliate of the
    Company. Under the terms of this agreement, the Company will
    provide a contribution to the fund upon the occurrence of
    specified events related to certain assets held by the fund. The
    Company is required to recognize the contingent obligation to
    provide a contribution to the fund at the estimated fair value
    in accordance with the Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 133,  Accounting for Derivatives and
    Hedge Activities,  and Financial Accounting Standards Board
    Interpretation No. 45 ( FIN 45 ),
     Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
    for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
    Others.  The maximum potential payments under the agreement
    are $68 million. While the estimation of any potential
    losses related to this agreement requires judgment, the Company
    recognized a derivative liability and related charge of
    approximately $37 million at December 31, 2008.

U.S. BANCORP   107 

The Company has also made financial performance guarantees
    related to the operations of its subsidiaries. The maximum
    potential future payments guaranteed by the Company under these
    arrangements were approximately $8.2 billion at
    December 31, 2008.

OTHER CONTINGENT
    LIABILITIES

Visa
    Restructuring and Card Association Litigation
       The Company s
    payment services business issues and acquires credit and debit
    card transactions through the Visa U.S.A. Inc. card association
    or its affiliates (collectively  Visa ). In 2007, Visa
    completed a restructuring and issued shares of Visa Inc. common
    stock to its financial institution members in contemplation of
    its initial public offering ( IPO ) completed in 2008
    (the  Visa Reorganization ). As part of the Visa
    Reorganization, the Company received its proportionate number of
    Class U.S.A. shares of Visa Inc. common stock. In addition,
    the Company and certain of its subsidiaries have been named as
    defendants along with Visa U.S.A. Inc. and MasterCard
    International (collectively, the  Card Associations ),
    as well as several other banks, in antitrust lawsuits
    challenging the practices of the Card Associations (the
     Visa Litigation ). Visa U.S.A. member banks have a
    contingent obligation to indemnify Visa, Inc. under the Visa
    U.S.A. bylaws (which were modified at the time of the
    restructuring in 2007) for potential losses arising from
    the Visa Litigation. The Company has also entered into judgment
    and loss sharing agreements with Visa U.S.A. and certain other
    banks in order to apportion financial responsibilities arising
    from any potential adverse judgment or negotiated settlements
    related to the Visa Litigation.

In 2007, Visa announced the settlement of the portion of the
    Visa Litigation involving American Express, and accordingly, the
    Company recorded a $115 million charge in 2007 for its
    proportionate share of this settlement. In addition to the
    liability related to the settlement with American Express, Visa
    U.S.A. member banks remain obligated to indemnify Visa Inc. for
    potential losses arising from the remaining Visa Litigation. The
    contingent obligation of member banks under the Visa U.S.A.
    bylaws has no specific maximum amount. While the estimation of
    any potential losses related to this litigation is highly
    judgmental, the Company recognized a charge of approximately
    $215 million in 2007 for its proportionate share of the
    guarantee of these matters.

In 2008, Visa Inc. completed its IPO, redeemed a portion of the
    Class U.S.A. shares, converted the remaining
    Class U.S.A. shares to Class B shares, and set aside
    $3.0 billion of the proceeds from the IPO in an escrow
    account for the benefit of member financial institutions to fund
    the expenses of the Visa Litigation, as well as the
    members  proportionate share of any judgments or
    settlements that may arise out of the Visa Litigation. The
    Company recorded a $339 million gain for the portion of its
    shares that were redeemed for cash and a $153 million gain
    for its proportionate share of the escrow account. The
    receivable related to the escrow account is classified in other
    liabilities as a direct offset to the related Visa Litigation
    liabilities and will decline as amounts are paid out of the
    escrow account.

Also in 2008, Visa announced the settlement of certain
    litigation matters with Discover Financial Services. The
    Company s proportionate share of the guarantee of this
    amount was not materially different than the amount recorded in
    2007.

On December 19, 2008, Visa Inc. deposited additional shares
    directly into the escrow account thereby further reducing the
    conversion ratio of the Class B shares held by the Company.
    The deposit had the effect of repurchasing a specified amount of
    Class A common share equivalents from Class B
    shareholders. The Company recorded a $56 million gain for
    its proportionate share of the additional escrow funding. As of
    December 31, 2008, the carrying amount of the
    Company s liability related to the remaining Visa
    Litigation, was $132 million. The remaining Visa Inc.
    shares held by the Company will be eligible for conversion to
    Class A shares three years after the IPO or upon settlement
    of the Visa Litigation, whichever is later.

Other
       The Company is subject
    to various other litigation, investigations and legal and
    administrative cases and proceedings that arise in the ordinary
    course of its businesses. Due to their complex nature, it may be
    years before some matters are resolved. While it is impossible
    to ascertain the ultimate resolution or range of financial
    liability with respect to these contingent matters, the Company
    believes that the aggregate amount of such liabilities will not
    have a material adverse effect on the financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows of the Company.

The Company accepts certain state and local government deposits
    through participation in pooled public funds programs. Those
    programs generally include provisions requiring participating
    depository institutions to post collateral in varying amounts.
    Under those programs, participating depository institutions
    effectively indemnify the state and local governments from
    losses that might be incurred on uninsured deposits if other
    participating depository institutions fail. Because the programs
    require collateral, and because the deposits of failed
    institutions are generally assumed by an acquiring institution,
    the Company does not expect to incur significant losses under
    these programs.

108     U.S. BANCORP

Note 23        U.S. BANCORP
    (PARENT COMPANY) 

CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET

CONDENSED STATEMENT OF INCOME

U.S. BANCORP   109 

CONDENSED
    STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

Transfer of funds (dividends, loans or advances) from bank
    subsidiaries to the Company is restricted. Federal law requires
    loans to the Company or its affiliates to be secured and
    generally limits loans to the Company or an individual affiliate
    to 10 percent of each bank s unimpaired capital and
    surplus. In the aggregate, loans to the Company and all
    affiliates cannot exceed 20 percent of each bank s
    unimpaired capital and surplus.

Dividend payments to the Company by its subsidiary banks are
    subject to regulatory review and statutory limitations and, in
    some instances, regulatory approval. The approval of the
    Comptroller of the Currency is required if total dividends by a
    national bank in any calendar year exceed the bank s net
    income for that year combined with its retained net income for
    the preceding two calendar years, or if the bank s retained
    earnings are less than zero. Furthermore, dividends are
    restricted by the Comptroller of the Currency s minimum
    capital constraints for all national banks. Within these
    guidelines, all bank subsidiaries have the ability to pay
    dividends without prior regulatory approval. The amount of
    dividends available to the parent company from the bank
    subsidiaries at December 31, 2008, was approximately
    $1.3 billion.

110     U.S. BANCORP

Report
    of Management

Responsibility for the financial statements and other
    information presented throughout this Annual Report rests with
    the management of U.S. Bancorp. The Company believes that
    the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States and present the substance of transactions based on
    the circumstances and management s best estimates and
    judgment.

In meeting its responsibilities for the reliability of the
    financial statements, management is responsible for establishing
    and maintaining an adequate system of internal control over
    financial reporting as defined by
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s
    system of internal control is designed to provide reasonable
    assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
    the preparation of publicly filed financial statements in
    accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States.

To test compliance, the Company carries out an extensive audit
    program. This program includes a review for compliance with
    written policies and procedures and a comprehensive review of
    the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal
    control. Although control procedures are designed and tested, it
    must be recognized that there are limits inherent in all systems
    of internal control and, therefore, errors and irregularities
    may nevertheless occur. Also, estimates and judgments are
    required to assess and balance the relative cost and expected
    benefits of the controls. Projection of any evaluation of
    effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
    controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
    or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
    may deteriorate.

The Board of Directors of the Company has an Audit Committee
    composed of directors who are independent of U.S. Bancorp.
    The committee meets periodically with management, the internal
    auditors and the independent accountants to consider audit
    results and to discuss internal accounting control, auditing and
    financial reporting matters.

Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s
    system of internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2008. In making this assessment, management
    used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission in its Internal
    Control-Integrated Framework. Based on our assessment and those
    criteria, management believes that the Company designed and
    maintained effective internal control over financial reporting
    as of December 31, 2008.

The Company s independent accountants, Ernst  
    Young LLP, have been engaged to render an independent
    professional opinion on the financial statements and issue an
    attestation report on the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting. Their opinion on the financial statements
    appearing on page 112 and their attestation on internal
    control over financial reporting appearing on page 113 are
    based on procedures conducted in accordance with auditing
    standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (United States).

U.S. BANCORP   111 

Report
    of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the
    Consolidated Financial Statements

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of U.S. Bancorp:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    U.S. Bancorp as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the
    related consolidated statements of income, shareholders 
    equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
    ended December 31, 2008. These financial statements are the
    responsibility of U.S. Bancorp s management. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
    statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of U.S. Bancorp at December 31,
    2008 and 2007, and the consolidated results of its operations
    and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
    ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
    U.S. Bancorp s internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria
    established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework
    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission and our report dated February 23, 2009
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Minneapolis, Minnesota

February 23, 2009

112     U.S. BANCORP

Report
    of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal
    Control Over Financial Reporting

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of U.S. Bancorp:

We have audited U.S. Bancorp s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on
    criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
    the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria).
    U.S. Bancorp s management is responsible for
    maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting,
    and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
    over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report of
    Management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
    U.S. Bancorp s internal control over financial
    reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, U.S. Bancorp maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of December 31, 2008, based on the COSO criteria . 

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of U.S. Bancorp as of
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated
    statements of income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2008 and our report dated February 23,
    2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Minneapolis, Minnesota

February 23, 2009

U.S. BANCORP   113 

U.S. Bancorp 
    Consolidated Balance Sheet   Five Year Summary
    (Unaudited)

114     U.S. BANCORP

U.S. Bancorp

Consolidated Statement of Income   Five Year Summary

* Not
    meaningful  

U.S. BANCORP   115 

U.S. Bancorp

Quarterly
    Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)

116     U.S. BANCORP

U.S. Bancorp

Supplemental
    Financial Data (Unaudited)

(a)

Defined
    as total common shares less common stock held in treasury at
    December 31.   

(b)

Based
    on number of common stock shareholders of record at
    December 31.   

STOCK
    PRICE RANGE AND DIVIDENDS

The common stock of U.S. Bancorp is traded on the New York
    Stock Exchange, under the ticker symbol  USB.  At
    January 31, 2009, there were 61,556 holders of record of
    the Company s common stock.

STOCK PERFORMANCE
    CHART

The following chart compares the cumulative total shareholder
    return on the Company s common stock during the five years
    ended December 31, 2008, with the cumulative total return on the
    Standard   Poor s 500 Commercial Bank Index and the
    Standard   Poor s 500 Index.  The comparison assumes
    $100 was invested on December 31, 2003, in the Company s
    common stock and in each of the foregoing indices and assumes
    the reinvestment of all dividends.

U.S. BANCORP   117 

U.S. Bancorp

Consolidated
    Daily Average Balance Sheet and

*

Not
    meaningful   

(a)

Interest
    and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis
    utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent.   

(b)

Interest
    income and rates on loans include loan fees. Nonaccrual loans
    are included in average loan balances.   

118     U.S. BANCORP

Related
    Yields and Rates (a) (Unaudited)

U.S. BANCORP   119 

Company Information

General Business
    Description
       U.S. Bancorp is a
    multi-state financial services holding company headquartered in
    Minneapolis, Minnesota. U.S. Bancorp was incorporated in
    Delaware in 1929 and operates as a financial holding company and
    a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of
    1956. U.S. Bancorp provides a full range of financial
    services, including lending and depository services, cash
    management, foreign exchange and trust and investment management
    services. It also engages in credit card services, merchant and
    ATM processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and
    leasing.

U.S. Bancorp s banking subsidiaries are engaged in the
    general banking business, principally in domestic markets. The
    subsidiaries range in size from $52 million to
    $172 billion in deposits and provide a wide range of
    products and services to individuals, businesses, institutional
    organizations, governmental entities and other financial
    institutions. Commercial and consumer lending services are
    principally offered to customers within the Company s
    domestic markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations
    and within certain niche national venues. Lending services
    include traditional credit products as well as credit card
    services, financing and import/export trade, asset-backed
    lending, agricultural finance and other products. Leasing
    products are offered through bank leasing subsidiaries.
    Depository services include checking accounts, savings accounts
    and time certificate contracts. Ancillary services such as
    foreign exchange, treasury management and receivable lock-box
    collection are provided to corporate customers.
    U.S. Bancorp s bank and trust subsidiaries provide a
    full range of asset management and fiduciary services for
    individuals, estates, foundations, business corporations and
    charitable organizations.

U.S. Bancorp s non-banking subsidiaries primarily
    offer investment and insurance products to the Company s
    customers principally within its markets and mutual fund
    processing services to a broad range of mutual funds.

Banking and investment services are provided through a network
    of 2,791 banking offices principally operating in 24 states
    in the Midwest and West. The Company operates a network of 4,897
    branded ATMs and provides
     24-hour, 
    seven day a week telephone customer service. Mortgage banking
    services are provided through banking offices and loan
    production offices throughout the Company s markets.
    Consumer lending products may be originated through banking
    offices, indirect correspondents, brokers or other lending
    sources, and a consumer finance division. The Company is also
    one of the largest providers of
    Visa   

    corporate and purchasing card services and corporate trust
    services in the United States. A wholly-owned subsidiary,
    Elavon, Inc. ( Elavon ), provides merchant processing
    services directly to merchants and through a network of banking
    affiliations. Affiliates of Elavon provide similar merchant
    services in Canada and segments of Europe. These foreign
    operations are not significant to the Company.

On a full-time equivalent basis, as of December 31, 2008,
    U.S. Bancorp employed 57,904 people.

Competition
       The commercial banking
    business is highly competitive. Subsidiary banks compete with
    other commercial banks and with other financial institutions,
    including savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks,
    finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions and
    investment companies. In recent years, competition has increased
    from institutions not subject to the same regulatory
    restrictions as domestic banks and bank holding companies.

Government
    Policies    The operations
    of the Company s various operating units are affected by
    state and federal legislative changes and by policies of various
    regulatory authorities, including those of the numerous states
    in which they operate, the United States and foreign
    governments. These policies include, for example, statutory
    maximum legal lending rates, domestic monetary policies of the
    Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, United States
    fiscal policy, international currency regulations and monetary
    policies, U.S. Patriot Act and capital adequacy and
    liquidity constraints imposed by bank regulatory agencies.

Supervision and
    Regulation    As a
    registered bank holding company and financial holding company
    under the Bank Holding Company Act, U.S. Bancorp is subject
    to the supervision of, and regulation by, the Board of Governors
    of the Federal Reserve System.

Under the Bank Holding Company Act, a financial holding company
    may engage in banking, managing or controlling banks, furnishing
    or performing services for banks it controls, and conducting
    other financial activities. U.S. Bancorp must obtain the
    prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring
    more than 5 percent of the outstanding shares of another
    bank or bank holding company, and must provide notice to, and in
    some situations obtain the prior approval of, the Federal
    Reserve Board in connection with engaging in, or acquiring more
    than 5 percent of the outstanding shares of a company
    engaged in, a new financial activity.

Under the Bank Holding Company Act, U.S. Bancorp may
    acquire banks throughout the United States, subject only to
    state or federal deposit caps and state minimum age requirements.

120     U.S. BANCORP

National banks are subject to the supervision of, and are
    examined by, the Comptroller of the Currency. All subsidiary
    banks of the Company are members of the Federal Deposit
    Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) and are subject to
    examination by the FDIC. In practice, the primary federal
    regulator makes regular examinations of each subsidiary bank
    subject to its regulatory review or participates in joint
    examinations with other federal regulators. Areas subject to
    regulation by federal authorities include the allowance for
    credit losses, investments, loans, mergers, issuance of
    securities, payment of dividends, establishment of branches and
    other aspects of operations.

Website Access to
    SEC Reports
       U.S. Bancorp s
    internet website can be found at usbank.com. U.S. Bancorp
    makes available free of charge on its website its annual reports
    on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    current reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as well as all
    other reports filed by U.S. Bancorp with the SEC, as soon
    as reasonably practicable after electronically filed with, or
    furnished to, the SEC.

Certifications
       U.S. Bancorp has
    filed as exhibits to its annual report on
     Form 10-K 
    the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
    certifications required by Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act. U.S. Bancorp has also submitted the
    required annual Chief Executive Officer certification to the New
    York Stock Exchange.

Risk Factors
       There are a number of
    factors, including those specified below, that may adversely
    affect the Company s business, financial results or stock
    price. Additional risks that the Company currently does not know
    about or currently views as immaterial may also impair the
    Company s business or adversely impact its financial
    results or stock price.

Industry Risk
    Factors   

The
    Company s business and financial results are significantly
    affected by general business and economic conditions
        The Company s
    business activities and earnings are affected by general
    business conditions in the United States and abroad. The
    domestic and global economies have seen a dramatic downturn
    during the past year or more, with negative effects on the
    business, financial condition and results of operations of
    financial institutions in the United States and other countries.
    Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past two years,
    with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and
    unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of
    real estate related loans and resulted in significant
    write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These
    write-downs, initially of asset-backed securities but spreading
    to other securities and loans, have caused many financial
    institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate
    dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and,
    in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability
    of the financial markets generally and the strength of
    counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have
    reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to
    other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening
    of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and
    consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased
    market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity
    generally. Market developments may further erode consumer
    confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment
    patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates,
    which may impact the Company s charge-offs and provision
    for credit losses. Continuing economic deterioration that
    affects household
     and/or 
    corporate incomes could also result in reduced demand for credit
    or fee-based products and services. In addition, changes in
    securities market conditions and monetary fluctuations could
    adversely affect the availability and terms of funding necessary
    to meet the Company s liquidity needs. A worsening of these
    conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these
    difficult market conditions on the Company and others in the
    financial institutions industry.

The Company
    could experience an unexpected inability to obtain needed
    liquidity     The
    Company s liquidity could be constrained by an unexpected
    inability to access the capital markets due to a variety of
    market dislocations or interruptions. If the Company is unable
    to meet its funding needs on a timely basis, its business would
    be adversely affected.

Current levels
    of market volatility are unprecedented
        The market for
    certain investment securities has become highly volatile or
    inactive, and may not stabilize or resume in the near term. This
    volatility has resulted in significant fluctuations in the
    prices of those securities, and additional market volatility may
    continue to adversely affect the Company s results of
    operations.

Changes in the
    domestic interest rate environment could reduce the
    Company s net interest income
        The operations of
    financial institutions such as the Company are dependent to a
    large degree on net interest income, which is the difference
    between interest income from loans and investments and interest
    expense on deposits and borrowings. An institution s net
    interest income is significantly affected by market rates of
    interest, which in turn are affected by prevailing economic
    conditions, by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal
    government and by the policies of various regulatory agencies.
    Like all financial institutions, the Company s balance
    sheet is

U.S. BANCORP   121 

affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Volatility in
    interest rates can also result in the flow of funds away from
    financial institutions into direct investments. Direct
    investments, such as U.S. Government and corporate
    securities and other investment vehicles (including mutual
    funds) generally pay higher rates of return than financial
    institutions, because of the absence of federal insurance
    premiums and reserve requirements.

There can be
    no assurance that recently enacted legislation will stabilize
    the U.S. financial markets
        The Emergency
    Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the  EESA ) was
    signed into law in October 2008 for the purpose of stabilizing
    and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets.
    Shortly thereafter, the U.S. Department of the Treasury
    announced a program under the EESA pursuant to which it would
    make senior preferred stock investments in participating
    financial institutions (the  TARP Capital Purchase
    Program ). In February 2009, the American Recovery and
    Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the  Stimulus Bill ) was
    passed, which is intended to stabilize the financial markets and
    slow or reverse the downturn in the U.S. economy, and which
    revised certain provisions of the EESA. The FDIC has also
    commenced a guarantee program under which the FDIC would offer a
    guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness in
    exchange for an insurance premium to be paid to the FDIC by
    issuing financial institutions.

There can be no assurance, however, that the EESA and its
    implementing regulations, the Stimulus Bill, the FDIC programs,
    or any other governmental program will have a positive impact on
    the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the Stimulus
    Bill, the FDIC programs, or any other actions of the
    U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a
    continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions
    could materially and adversely affect the Company s
    business, financial condition, results of operations, access to
    credit or the trading price of the Company s common stock.

The Company
    may be adversely affected by recently enacted or contemplated
    legislation and rulemaking
        The programs
    established or to be established under the EESA and Troubled
    Asset Relief Program, as well as restrictions contained in
    current or future rules implementing or related to them and
    those contemplated by the Stimulus Bill, may adversely affect
    the Company. In specific, any governmental or regulatory action
    having the effect of requiring the Company to obtain additional
    capital, whether from governmental or private sources, could
    have a material dilutive effect on current shareholders. The
    Company faces increased regulation of the Company s
    business and increased costs associated with these programs. The
    EESA, as amended by the Stimulus bill, contains, among other
    things, significant restrictions on the payment of executive
    compensation, which may have an adverse effect on the retention
    or recruitment of key members of senior management. Also, the
    Company s participation in the TARP Capital Purchase
    Program limits (without the consent of the Department of
    Treasury) the Company s ability to increase the
    Company s dividend and to repurchase the Company s
    common stock for up to three years. Similarly, programs
    established by the FDIC may have an adverse effect on the
    Company, due to the costs of participation.

Other changes
    in the laws, regulations and policies governing financial
    services companies could alter the Company s business
    environment and adversely affect operations
        The Board of
    Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of
    money and credit in the United States. Its fiscal and monetary
    policies determine in a large part the Company s cost of
    funds for lending and investing and the return that can be
    earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the
    Company s net interest margin. Federal Reserve Board
    policies can also materially affect the value of financial
    instruments that the Company holds, such as debt securities and
    mortgage servicing rights.

The Company and its bank subsidiaries are heavily regulated at
    the federal and state levels. This regulation is to protect
    depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking
    system as a whole. Congress and state legislatures and federal
    and state agencies continually review banking laws, regulations
    and policies for possible changes. Changes in statutes,
    regulations or policies could affect the Company in substantial
    and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of
    financial services and products that the Company offers
     and/or 
    increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial
    services and products. The Company cannot predict whether any of
    this potential legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the
    effect that it or any regulations would have on the
    Company s financial condition or results of operations.

The soundness
    of other financial institutions could adversely affect the
    Company     The
    Company s ability to engage in routine funding transactions
    could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial
    soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services
    institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing,
    counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to
    many different counterparties, and the Company routinely
    executes transactions with counterparties in the financial
    industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks,
    investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other
    institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors

122     U.S. BANCORP

or questions about, one or more financial services institutions,
    or the financial services industry generally, have led to
    market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or
    defaults by the Company or by other institutions. Many of these
    transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of
    default of the Company s counterparty or client. In
    addition, the Company s credit risk may be exacerbated when
    the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is
    liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount
    of the financial instrument exposure due the Company. There is
    no assurance that any such losses would not materially and
    adversely affect the Company s results of operations.

The financial
    services industry is highly competitive, and competitive
    pressures could intensify and adversely affect the
    Company s financial results
        The Company operates
    in a highly competitive industry that could become even more
    competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and
    technological changes and continued consolidation. The Company
    competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan
    associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage
    banking companies, credit unions and investment companies. In
    addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it
    possible for non-banks to offer products and services
    traditionally provided by banks. Many of the Company s
    competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and some have
    lower cost structures. Also, the potential need to adapt to
    industry changes in information technology systems, on which the
    Company and financial services industry are highly dependent,
    could present operational issues and require capital spending.

Changes in
    consumer use of banks and changes in consumer spending and
    saving habits could adversely affect the Company s
    financial results
        Technology and other
    changes now allow many consumers to complete financial
    transactions without using banks. For example, consumers can pay
    bills and transfer funds directly without going through a bank.
    This  disintermediation  could result in the loss of
    fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income
    generated from those deposits. In addition, changes in consumer
    spending and saving habits could adversely affect the
    Company s operations, and the Company may be unable to
    timely develop competitive new products and services in response
    to these changes that are accepted by new and existing customers.

Acts or
    threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by
    the United States or other governments could adversely affect
    general economic or industry conditions
        Geopolitical
    conditions may also affect the Company s earnings. Acts or
    threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by
    the United States or other governments in response to terrorism,
    or similar activity, could adversely affect general economic or
    industry conditions.

Company Risk
    Factors   

The
    Company s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to
    cover actual losses
        Like all financial
    institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses
    to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The
    Company s allowance for loan losses is based on its
    historical loss experience as well as an evaluation of the risks
    associated with its loan portfolio, including the size and
    composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions
    and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. The stress
    on the United States economy and the local economies which the
    Company does business may be greater or last longer than
    expected, resulting in, among other things, greater than
    expected deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolio,
    or in the value of collateral securing those loans. The recent
    increases in the Company s allowance for loan losses may
    not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future
    provisions for loan losses could continue to materially and
    adversely affect its financial results.

The Company
    may continue to suffer increased losses in its loan portfolio
    despite its underwriting practices
        The Company seeks to
    mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to
    specific underwriting practices. These practices often include:
    analysis of a borrower s credit history, financial
    statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of
    collateral based on reports of independent appraisers; and
    verification of liquid assets. Although the Company believes
    that its underwriting criteria are, and historically have been,
    appropriate for the various kinds of loans it makes, the Company
    has already incurred high levels of losses on loans that have
    met these criteria, and may continue to experience higher than
    expected losses depending on economic factors and consumer
    behavior.

The
    Company s investment portfolio values may be adversely
    impacted by changing interest rates and deterioration in the
    credit quality of underlying collateral within a structured
    investment     The
    Company generally invests in government securities, securities
    issued by government-backed agencies or privately issued
    securities highly rated by credit rating agencies that may have
    limited credit risk, but, are subject to changes in market value
    due to changing interest rates and implied credit spreads.
    However, certain securities represent beneficial interests in
    structured investments which are collateralized by residential
    mortgages, collateralized debt obligations and other similar
    asset-backed assets. While these structured investments are

U.S. BANCORP   123 

highly rated by credit rating agencies at the time of initial
    investment, these credit ratings are subject to change due to
    deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying
    collateral. During recent months, these structured securities
    have been subject to significant market volatility due to the
    uncertainty of the credit ratings, deterioration in credit
    losses occurring within certain types of residential mortgages,
    changes in prepayments and the lack of transparency related to
    the structures and the collateral underlying the structured
    investment vehicles. Given recent market conditions and changing
    economic factors, the Company may continue to have valuation
    losses or recognize impairment related to structured investments.

Maintaining or
    increasing the Company s market share may depend on
    lowering prices and market acceptance of new products and
    services     The
    Company s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt
    its products and services to evolving industry standards. There
    is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower
    prices. Lower prices can reduce the Company s net interest
    margin and revenues from its fee-based products and services. In
    addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including
    internet services, could require the Company to make substantial
    expenditures to modify or adapt the Company s existing
    products and services. Also, these and other capital investments
    in the Company s businesses may not produce expected growth
    in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. The
    Company might not be successful in introducing new products and
    services, achieving market acceptance of its products and
    services, or developing and maintaining loyal customers.

Because the
    nature of the financial services business involves a high volume
    of transactions, the Company faces significant operational risks
        The Company operates
    in many different businesses in diverse markets and relies on
    the ability of its employees and systems to process a high
    number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss
    resulting from the Company s operations, including, but not
    limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of
    the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by
    employees, errors relating to transaction processing and
    technology, breaches of the internal control system and
    compliance requirements and business continuation and disaster
    recovery. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal
    actions that could arise as a result of an operational
    deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable
    regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their
    implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative
    publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control
    system, improper operation of systems or improper employee
    actions, the Company could suffer financial loss, face
    regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation.

The change in
    residual value of leased assets may have an adverse impact on
    the Company s financial results
        The Company engages
    in leasing activities and is subject to the risk that the
    residual value of the property under lease will be less than the
    Company s recorded asset value. Adverse changes in the
    residual value of leased assets can have a negative impact on
    the Company s financial results. The risk of changes in the
    realized value of the leased assets compared to recorded
    residual values depends on many factors outside of the
    Company s control, including supply and demand for the
    assets, collecting insurance claims, condition of the assets at
    the end of the lease term, and other economic factors.

Negative
    publicity could damage the Company s reputation and
    adversely impact its business and financial results
        Reputation risk, or
    the risk to the Company s earnings and capital from
    negative publicity, is inherent in the Company s business.
    Negative publicity can result from the Company s actual or
    alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending
    practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and actions
    taken by government regulators and community organizations in
    response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely
    affect the Company s ability to keep and attract customers
    and can expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action.
    Because most of the Company s businesses operate under the
     U.S. Bank  brand, actual or alleged conduct by
    one business can result in negative publicity about other
    businesses the Company operates. Although the Company takes
    steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with customers and
    other constituencies, the Company, as a large diversified
    financial services company with a high industry profile, is
    inherently exposed to this risk.

The
    Company s reported financial results depend on
    management s selection of accounting methods and certain
    assumptions and estimates
        The Company s
    accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the
    Company records and reports its financial condition and results
    of operations. The Company s management must exercise
    judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting
    policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted
    accounting principles and reflect management s judgment of
    the most appropriate manner to report the Company s
    financial condition and results. In some cases, management must
    select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more
    alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the
    circumstances, yet might result in the Company s reporting
    materially different

124     U.S. BANCORP

results than would have been reported under a different
    alternative.

Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting the
    Company s financial condition and results. They require
    management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments
    about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts
    could be reported under different conditions or using different
    assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies
    include: the allowance for credit losses; estimations of fair
    value; the valuation of mortgage servicing rights; the valuation
    of goodwill and other intangible assets; and income taxes.
    Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these
    matters, the Company may be required to do one or more of the
    following: significantly increase the allowance for credit
    losses
     and/or 
    sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the
    reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on its
    goodwill and other intangible asset balances; or significantly
    increase its accrued taxes liability. For more information,
    refer to  Critical Accounting Policies  in this Annual
    Report.

Changes in
    accounting standards could materially impact the Company s
    financial statements
        From time to time,
    the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial
    accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation
    of the Company s financial statements. These changes can be
    hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company
    records and reports its financial condition and results of
    operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to
    apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the
    Company s restating prior period financial statements.

Acquisitions
    may not produce revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels
    or within timeframes originally anticipated and may result in
    unforeseen integration difficulties
        The Company
    regularly explores opportunities to acquire financial services
    businesses or assets and may also consider opportunities to
    acquire other banks or financial institutions. The Company
    cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions.

Difficulty in integrating an acquired business or company may
    cause the Company not to realize expected revenue increases,
    cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence,
     and/or  other
    projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could
    result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss
    of key employees, disruption of the Company s business or
    the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely
    affect the Company s ability to maintain relationships with
    customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of
    the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures
    required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business
    combinations may be greater than expected.

The Company must generally receive federal regulatory approval
    before it can acquire a bank or bank holding company. In
    determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition,
    federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the
    effect of the acquisition on the competition, financial
    condition, and future prospects. The regulators also review
    current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence,
    experience, and integrity of management and its record of
    compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs
    of the communities to be served (including the acquiring
    institution s record of compliance under the Community
    Reinvestment Act) and the effectiveness of the acquiring
    institution in combating money laundering activities. In
    addition, the Company cannot be certain when or if, or on what
    terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be
    granted. The Company may be required to sell banks or branches
    as a condition to receiving regulatory approval.

If new laws
    were enacted that restrict the ability of the Company and its
    subsidiaries to share information about customers, the
    Company s financial results could be negatively affected
        The Company s
    business model depends on sharing information among the family
    of companies owned by U.S. Bancorp to better satisfy the
    Company s customer needs. Laws that restrict the ability of
    the companies owned by U.S. Bancorp to share information
    about customers could negatively affect the Company s
    revenue and profit.

The
    Company s business could suffer if the Company fails to
    attract and retain skilled people
        The Company s
    success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and
    retain key people. Competition for the best people in most
    activities the Company engages in can be intense. The Company
    may not be able to hire the best people or to keep them.

The Company
    relies on other companies to provide key components of the
    Company s business infrastructure
        Third party vendors
    provide key components of the Company s business
    infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and
    mutual fund distribution. While the Company has selected these
    third party vendors carefully, it does not control their
    actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including
    as a result of their not providing the Company their services
    for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could
    adversely affect the Company s ability to deliver products
    and services to the Company s customers and otherwise to
    conduct its business. Replacing these third party vendors could
    also entail significant delay and expense.

U.S. BANCORP   125 

Significant
    legal actions could subject the Company to substantial uninsured
    liabilities     The
    Company is from time to time subject to claims related to its
    operations. These claims and legal actions, including
    supervisory actions by the Company s regulators, could
    involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. To
    protect itself from the cost of these claims, the Company
    maintains insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles
    that it believes are appropriate for its operations. However,
    the Company s insurance coverage may not cover all claims
    against the Company or continue to be available to the Company
    at a reasonable cost. As a result, the Company may be exposed to
    substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect
    the Company s results of operations and financial condition.

The Company is
    exposed to risk of environmental liability when it takes title
    to properties     In the
    course of the Company s business, the Company may foreclose
    on and take title to real estate. As a result, the Company could
    be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these
    properties. The Company may be held liable to a governmental
    entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury,
    investigation and
     clean-up 
    costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental
    contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up
    hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a
    property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation
    activities could be substantial. In addition, if the Company is
    the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, it may be
    subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages
    and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating
    from the property. If the Company becomes subject to significant
    environmental liabilities, its financial condition and results
    of operations could be adversely affected.

A natural
    disaster could harm the Company s business
        Natural disasters
    could harm the Company s operations through interference
    with communications, including the interruption or loss of the
    Company s websites, which would prevent the Company from
    gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and
    controlling its flow of business, as well as through the
    destruction of facilities and the Company s operational,
    financial and management information systems.

The Company
    faces systems failure risks as well as security risks, including
     hacking  and  identity theft 
        The computer systems
    and network infrastructure the Company and others use could be
    vulnerable to unforeseen problems. These problems may arise in
    both our internally developed systems and the systems of our
    third-party service providers. Our operations are dependent upon
    our ability to protect computer equipment against damage from
    fire, power loss or telecommunication failure. Any damage or
    failure that causes an interruption in our operations could
    adversely affect our business and financial results. In
    addition, our computer systems and network infrastructure
    present security risks, and could be susceptible to hacking or
    identity theft.

The Company
    relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for its liquidity
    needs     The Company is
    a separate and distinct legal entity from its bank subsidiaries
    and non-bank subsidiaries. The Company receives substantially
    all of its cash from dividends paid by its subsidiaries. These
    dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on
    the Company s stock and interest and principal on its debt.
    Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount
    of dividends that our bank subsidiaries and certain of our
    non-bank subsidiaries may pay to the Company. Also, the
    Company s right to participate in a distribution of assets
    upon a subsidiary s liquidation or reorganization is
    subject to prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors.

The Company
    has non-banking businesses that are subject to various risks and
    uncertainties     The
    Company is a diversified financial services company, and the
    Company s business model is based on a mix of businesses
    that provide a broad range of products and services delivered
    through multiple distribution channels. In addition to banking,
    the Company provides payment services, investments, mortgages
    and corporate and personal trust services. Although the Company
    believes its diversity helps lessen the effect of downturns in
    any one segment of its industry, it also means the
    Company s earnings could be subject to various specific
    risks and uncertainties related to these non-banking businesses.

The
    Company s stock price can be volatile    The
    Company s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a
    variety of factors, including: actual or anticipated variations
    in the Company s quarterly operating results;
    recommendations by securities analysts; significant acquisitions
    or business combinations; strategic partnerships, joint ventures
    or capital commitments by or involving the Company or the
    Company s competitors; operating and stock price
    performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to
    the Company; new technology used or services offered by the
    Company s competitors; news reports relating to trends,
    concerns and other issues in the financial services industry;
    and changes in government regulations. General market
    fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and
    political conditions and events have recently caused a
    significant decline in the Company s stock price, and these
    factors as well as interest rate changes, continued unfavorable
    credit loss trends, currency fluctuations, or unforeseen events
    such as terrorist attacks could cause the Company s stock
    price to continue to decrease regardless of the Company s
    operating results.

126     U.S. BANCORP

Executive
    Officers

Left to right:  

Joseph M. Otting, Vice Chairman, Commercial Banking  

P.W. (Bill) Parker, Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer  

Howell (Mac) McCullough, III, Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer  

Jennie P. Carlson, Executive Vice President, Human Resources  

Richard C. Hartnack, Vice Chairman, Consumer Banking  

Richard B. Payne, Jr., Vice Chairman, Corporate Banking  

Andrew Cecere, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer  

Diane L. Thormodsgard, Vice Chairman, Wealth Management   Securities Services  

Joseph C. Hoesley, Vice Chairman, Commercial Real Estate  

William L. Chenevich, Vice Chairman, Technology and Operations Services  

Richard K. Davis, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  

Richard J. Hidy, Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer  

Pamela A. Joseph, Vice Chairman, Payment Services  

Lee R. Mitau, Executive Vice President and General Counsel  

Richard
    K. Davis  

Mr. Davis is Chairman,
    President and Chief Executive Officer of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Davis, 51, has served as Chairman of U.S. Bancorp
    since December 2007, Chief Executive Officer since December 2006
    and President since October 2004. He also served as Chief
    Operating Officer from October 2004 until December 2006. From
    the time of the merger of Firstar Corporation and
    U.S. Bancorp in February 2001 until October 2004,
    Mr. Davis served as Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp.
    From the time of the merger, Mr. Davis was responsible for
    Consumer Banking, including Retail Payment Solutions (card
    services), and he assumed additional responsibility for
    Commercial Banking in 2003. Mr. Davis has held management
    positions with our Company since joining Star Banc Corporation,
    one of our predecessors, in 1993 as Executive Vice President.

Jennie
    P. Carlson  

Ms. Carlson is Executive Vice
    President of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Carlson, 48, has served
    as Executive Vice President, Human Resources since January 2002.
    Until that time, she served as Executive Vice President, Deputy
    General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of U.S. Bancorp
    since the merger of Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in
    February 2001. From 1995 until the merger, she was General
    Counsel and Secretary of Firstar Corporation and Star Banc
    Corporation.

Andrew
    Cecere  

Mr. Cecere is Vice Chairman
    and Chief Financial Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Cecere,
    48, has served as Chief Financial Officer of U.S. Bancorp
    since February 2007, and Vice Chairman since the merger of
    Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February 2001. From
    February 2001 until February 2007 he was responsible for Wealth
    Management   Securities Services. Previously, he had
    served as an executive officer of the former U.S. Bancorp,
    including as Chief Financial Officer from May 2000 through
    February 2001.

William
    L. Chenevich  

Mr. Chenevich is Vice Chairman
    of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Chenevich, 65, has served as Vice
    Chairman of U.S. Bancorp since the merger of Firstar
    Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February 2001, when he
    assumed responsibility for Technology and Operations Services.
    Previously, he served as Vice Chairman of Technology and
    Operations Services of Firstar Corporation from 1999 to 2001.

Richard
    C. Hartnack  

Mr. Hartnack is Vice Chairman
    of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hartnack, 63, has served in this
    position since April 2005, when he joined U.S. Bancorp to
    assume responsibility for Consumer Banking. Prior to joining
    U.S. Bancorp, he served as Vice Chairman of Union Bank of
    California from 1991 to 2005 with responsibility for Community
    Banking and Investment Services.

Richard
    J. Hidy  

Mr. Hidy is Executive Vice
    President and Chief Risk Officer of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Hidy, 46, has served in these positions since 2005.
    From 2003 until 2005, he served as Senior Vice President and
    Deputy General Counsel of U.S. Bancorp, having served as
    Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel of
    U.S. Bancorp and Firstar Corporation since 1999.

Joseph
    C. Hoesley  

Mr. Hoesley is Vice Chairman
    of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hoesley, 54, has served as Vice
    Chairman of U.S. Bancorp since June 2006. From June 2002
    until June 2006, he served as Executive Vice President and
    National Group Head of Commercial Real Estate at
    U.S. Bancorp, having previously served as Senior Vice
    President and Group Head of Commercial Real Estate at
    U.S. Bancorp since joining U.S. Bancorp in 1992.

Pamela
    A. Joseph  

Ms. Joseph is Vice Chairman of
    U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Joseph, 50, has served as Vice
    Chairman of U.S. Bancorp since December 2004. Since
    November 2004, she has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
    of Elavon Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp.
    Prior to that time, she had been President and Chief Operating
    Officer of Elavon Inc. since February 2000.

Howell
    D. McCullough III  

Mr. McCullough is Executive
    Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer of U.S. Bancorp
    and Head of U.S. Bancorp s Enterprise Revenue Office.
    Mr. McCullough, 52, has served in these positions since
    September 2007. From July 2005 until September 2007, he served
    as Director of Strategy and Acquisitions of the Payment Services
    business of U.S. Bancorp. He also served as Chief Financial
    Officer of the Payment Services business from October 2006 until
    September 2007. From March 2001 until July 2005, he served as
    Senior Vice President and Director of Investor Relations at
    U.S. Bancorp.

Lee
    R. Mitau  

Mr. Mitau is Executive Vice
    President and General Counsel of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Mitau,
    60, has served in these positions since 1995. Mr. Mitau
    also serves as Corporate Secretary. Prior to 1995 he was a
    partner at the law firm of Dorsey   Whitney LLP.

Joseph
    M. Otting  

Mr. Otting is Vice Chairman of
    U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Otting, 51, has served in this
    position since April 2005, when he assumed responsibility for
    Commercial Banking. Previously, he served as Executive Vice
    President, East Commercial Banking Group of U.S. Bancorp
    from June 2003 to April 2005. He served as Market President of
    U.S. Bank in Oregon from December 2001 until June 2003.

P.W.
    Parker  

Mr. Parker is Executive Vice
    President and Chief Credit Officer of U.S. Bancorp.
    Mr. Parker, 52, has served in this position since October
    2007. From March 2005 until October 2007, he served as Executive
    Vice President of Credit Portfolio Management of
    U.S. Bancorp, having served as Senior Vice President of
    Credit Portfolio Management of U.S. Bancorp since January
    2002.

Richard
    B. Payne, Jr.  

Mr. Payne is Vice Chairman of
    U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Payne, 61, has served in this
    position since July 2006, when he joined U.S. Bancorp to
    assume responsibility for Corporate Banking. Prior to joining
    U.S. Bancorp, he served as Executive Vice President for
    National City Corporation in Cleveland, with responsibility for
    Capital Markets, since 2001.

Diane
    L. Thormodsgard  

Ms. Thormodsgard is Vice
    Chairman of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Thormodsgard, 58, has
    served as Vice Chairman of U.S. Bancorp since April 2007,
    when she assumed responsibility for Wealth
    Management   Securities Services. From 1999 until
    April 2007, she served as President of Corporate Trust and
    Institutional Trust   Custody services of
    U.S. Bancorp, having previously served as Chief
    Administrative Officer of Corporate Trust at U.S. Bancorp
    from 1995 to 1999.

U.S. BANCORP   127 

Directors

Richard
    K.
    Davis 1,6    

Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer  

U.S. Bancorp

Minneapolis, Minnesota

Douglas
    M. Baker,
    Jr. 3,4    

Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer  

Ecolab Inc.

St. Paul, Minnesota

Victoria
    Buyniski
    Gluckman 4,6    

Retired Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer  

United Medical Resources, Inc.,

a wholly owned subsidiary of

UnitedHealth Group Incorporated

Cincinnati, Ohio

Arthur
    D. Collins,
    Jr. 1,2,5    

Retired Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer  

Medtronic, Inc.

Minneapolis, Minnesota

Joel
    W.
    Johnson 3,6    

Retired Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer  

Hormel Foods Corporation

Austin, Minnesota

Olivia
    F.
    Kirtley 1,3,5    

Business Consultant  

Louisville, Kentucky

Jerry
    W.
    Levin 1,2,5    

Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer  

JW Levin Partners LLC

New York, New York

David
    B.
    O Maley 5,6    

Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer  

Ohio National Financial Services,
    Inc.

Cincinnati, Ohio

O dell
    M. Owens, M.D.,
    M.P.H. 1,3,4    

Independent Consultant and
    Hamilton County Coroner  

Cincinnati, Ohio

Richard
    G.
    Reiten 2,3    

Retired Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer  

Northwest Natural Gas Company

Portland, Oregon

Craig
    D.
    Schnuck 4,6    

Former Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer  

Schnuck Markets, Inc.

St. Louis, Missouri

Patrick
    T.
    Stokes 1,2,6    

Retired Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer  

Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc.

St. Louis, Missouri

1.    
     
      Executive
    Committee  

2.    
     
      Compensation and
    Human Resources Committee  

3.    
     
      Audit
    Committee  

4.    
     
      Community
    Reinvestment and Public Policy Committee  

5.    
     
      Governance
    Committee  

6.    
     
      Risk Management
    Committee  

128     U.S. BANCORP

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 5
 c48687exv21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF U.S. BANCORP 
(JURISDICTIONS OF ORGANIZATION SHOWN IN PARENTHESES) 

U.S. Bank National Association (a nationally chartered banking association)

U.S. Bank National Association ND (a nationally chartered banking association)

U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association (a nationally chartered banking association)

U.S. Bank Trust National Association (a nationally chartered banking association)

U.S. Bank Trust National Association SD (a nationally chartered banking association)

Elan Life Insurance Company (Arizona)

Elavon Financial Services Limited (Ireland)

FAF Advisors, Inc. (Delaware)

Firstar Trade Services Corporation (Wisconsin)

Miami Valley Insurance Company (Arizona)

Midwest Indemnity Inc. (Vermont)

Mississippi Valley Life Insurance Company (Arizona)

NOVA Canadian Holdings Company (Delaware)

NOVA European Holdings Company (Delaware)

Quasar Distributors, LLC (Wisconsin)

U.S. Bancorp Insurance and Investments, Inc. (Wyoming)

U.S. Bancorp Insurance Company, Inc. (Vermont)

U.S. Bancorp Insurance Services of Montana, Inc. (Montana)

U.S. Bancorp Insurance Services, LLC (Wisconsin)

U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc. (Delaware)

USBIS
Credit Insurance Services, Inc. (Montana)

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 c48687exv23w1.htm
 EX-23.1

EX-23.1 

Exhibit
23.1 

Consent
    of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Annual
    Report
     (Form 10-K) 
    of U.S. Bancorp of our reports dated February 23,
    2009, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of
    U.S. Bancorp and the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting of U.S. Bancorp, included in the 2008
    Annual Report to Shareholders of U.S. Bancorp.

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following
    Registration Statements:

of our reports dated February 23, 2009, with respect to the
    consolidated financial statements of U.S. Bancorp, and the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of
    U.S. Bancorp, included in the 2008 Annual Report to
    Shareholders of U.S. Bancorp, which is incorporated by
    reference in this Annual Report
     (Form 10-K) 
    of U.S. Bancorp for the year ended December 31, 2008.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

February 27, 2009

</EX-23.1>

<EX-24>
 7
 c48687exv24.htm
 EX-24

EX-24 

Exhibit 24               

U.S. BANCORP 

Power of Attorney of Director

Each of the undersigned directors of U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation, hereby constitutes
and appoints each of RICHARD K. DAVIS, ANDREW CECERE and LEE R. MITAU, acting individually or
jointly, their true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power to act for them and in
their name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to do any and all acts and execute any and
all documents which either such attorney and agent may deem necessary or desirable to enable U.S.
Bancorp to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any rules, regulations
and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof, in connection with
the filing with the Commission of U.S. Bancorp s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2008, including, without limitation, power and authority to sign the names of
the undersigned directors to the Annual Report on Form 10-K and to any instruments and documents
filed as part of or in connection with the Form 10-K or any amendments thereto; and the undersigned
hereby ratify and confirm all actions taken and documents signed by each said attorney and agent as
provided herein.

The undersigned have set their hands this 20th day of January, 2009.

/s/ Douglas M. Baker, Jr.

/s/ David B. O Maley 

Douglas M. Baker, Jr.

David B. O Maley 

/s/ Victoria Buyniski Gluckman

/s/ O dell M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H. 

Victoria Buyniski Gluckman

O dell M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H. 

/s/ Arthur D. Collins, Jr.

/s/ Richard G. Reiten 

Arthur D. Collins, Jr.

Richard G. Reiten 

/s/ Joel W. Johnson

/s/ Craig D. Schnuck 

Joel W. Johnson

Craig D. Schnuck 

/s/ Olivia F. Kirtley

/s/ Patrick T. Stokes 

Olivia F. Kirtley

Patrick T. Stokes 

/s/ Jerry W. Levin

Jerry W. Levin

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 c48687exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1  

CERTIFICATION
    PURSUANT TO  

RULE 13a-14(a) 
    UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

I, Richard K. Davis, certify that:

(1) 
 
         I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of U.S. Bancorp;

(2) 
 
         Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
    statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
    necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

(3) 
 
         Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
    financial information included in this report, fairly present in
    all material respects the financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
    periods presented in this report;

(4) 
 
         The registrant s other certifying officers and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act Rules
     13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

(a) 

designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
    disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
    supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this report is being prepared;

(b) 

designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
    caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

(c) 

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
    controls and procedures and presented in this report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
    report based on such evaluation; and

(d) 

disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
    internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
    the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
    registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
    report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
    materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
    financial reporting; and

(5)  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officers and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) 

all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
    design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
    which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

(b) 

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
    other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   Richard
    K. Davis 

Richard K. Davis

Chief Executive Officer 

Dated: March 2, 2009

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 c48687exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

EXHIBIT 31.2  

CERTIFICATION
    PURSUANT TO  

RULE 13a-14(a) 
    UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

I, Andrew Cecere, certify that:

(1) 
 
         I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of U.S. Bancorp;

(2) 
 
         Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
    statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
    necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

(3) 
 
         Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
    financial information included in this report, fairly present in
    all material respects the financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
    periods presented in this report;

(4) 
 
         The registrant s other certifying officers and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act Rules
     13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

(a) 

designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
    disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
    supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this report is being prepared;

(b) 

designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
    caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

(c) 

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
    controls and procedures and presented in this report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
    report based on such evaluation; and

(d) 

disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
    internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
    the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
    registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
    report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
    materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
    financial reporting; and

(5)  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officers and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) 

all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
    design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
    which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

(b) 

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
    other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   Andrew
    Cecere 

Andrew Cecere

Chief Financial Officer 

Dated: March 2, 2009

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 10
 c48687exv32.htm
 EX-32

EX-32 

EXHIBIT 32  

CERTIFICATION
    PURSUANT TO  

18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 

AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 

SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
    the undersigned, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer of U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation (the
     Company ), do hereby certify that:

(1) 

The Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 (the
      Form 10-K ) 
    of the Company fully complies with the requirements of
    section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934; and

(2) 

The information contained in the
     Form 10-K 
    fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
    condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/   Richard
    K. Davis 

Richard
    K. Davis 
     Chief Executive Officer 

/s/   Andrew
    Cecere 

Andrew
    Cecere 
     Chief Financial Officer 

Dated: March 2, 2009

</EX-32>

