<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20120223_10-K_edgar_data_36104_0001193125-12-075125_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>39922723</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>713673</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>9956358</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>9260982</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>12851787</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>6130269</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>286</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>19</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-12-075125.hdr.sgml : 20120223
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20120223153105
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-12-075125
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		22
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20111231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20120223
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20120223

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			US BANCORP \DE\
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000036104
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS [6021]
		IRS NUMBER:				410255900
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06880
		FILM NUMBER:		12633656

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		U.S.BANCORP
		STREET 2:		800 NICOLLET MALL
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55402
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(651)466-3000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		U.S.BANCORP
		STREET 2:		800 NICOLLET MALL
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55402

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	FIRST BANK SYSTEM INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	FIRST BANK STOCK CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19720317

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-12-075125.txt : 20120223

10-K
 1
 d261300d10k.htm
 FORM 10K

Form 10K 

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549         
        Form 10-K

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011    
    or        
 
   For the transition period
from                     to                     
       Commission file number: 1-6880    
         
   U.S. Bancorp    
   (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)    

Delaware   
     
   41-0255900    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of   
   incorporation or organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)     
     800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402    
   (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)        (651) 446-3000        (Registrant s telephone number, including area
code)        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    

Title of each class    
      
     Name of each exchange on which registered     

Common Stock, $.01 par value per share   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    Depositary Shares (each representing 1/100th interest in a share of Series A
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $1.00)   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    Depositary Shares (each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of Series B
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $1.00)   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    Depositary Shares (each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of Series D
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $1.00)   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    Depositary Shares (each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of Series F
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $1.00)   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:    
   None         
       Indicate by
check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant
to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
(Check one):       

Large accelerated filer  

Accelerated filer  

Non-accelerated filer  
     
       (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
      
  Smaller reporting company  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    Yes         No        
  As of June 30, 2011, the aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was
$49.1 billion based on the closing sale price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.      Indicate the number of shares
outstanding of each of the registrant s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.       
           
   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE        

Document    
        
     Parts Into Which Incorporated     

1.  
     
  Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011 (2011 Annual Report)  
        
  Parts I and II   
 
  2.  
     
  Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 17, 2012 (Proxy Statement)  
        
  Part III   

PART I    

Item 1.   
      Business             General
Business Description       U.S. Bancorp ( U.S. Bancorp  or the  Company ) is a multi-state
financial services holding company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. U.S. Bancorp was incorporated in Delaware in 1929 and operates as a financial holding company and a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
U.S. Bancorp provides a full range of financial services, including lending and depository services, cash management, foreign exchange and trust and investment management services. It also engages in credit card services, merchant and ATM
processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and leasing.      U.S. Bancorp s banking subsidiaries are engaged in
the general banking business, principally in domestic markets. The subsidiaries range in size from $53 million to $236 billion in deposits and provide a wide range of products and services to individuals, businesses, institutional
organizations, governmental entities and other financial institutions. Commercial and consumer lending services are principally offered to customers within the Company s domestic markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations and to
large national customers focusing on specific targeted industries. Lending services include traditional credit products as well as credit card services, leasing, financing and import/export trade, asset-backed lending, agricultural finance and other
products. Depository services include checking accounts, savings accounts and time certificate contracts. Ancillary services such as foreign exchange, treasury management and receivable lock-box collection are provided to corporate customers.
U.S. Bancorp s bank and trust subsidiaries provide a full range of asset management and fiduciary services for individuals, estates, foundations, business corporations and charitable organizations.   
  U.S. Bancorp s non-banking subsidiaries primarily offer investment and insurance products to the Company s customers
principally within its markets, and mutual fund processing services to a broad range of mutual funds.   
  Banking and investment services are provided through a network of 3,085 banking offices principally operating in the
Midwest and West regions of the United States. The Company operates a network of 5,053 ATMs and provides 24-hour, seven day a week telephone customer service. Mortgage banking services are provided through banking offices and loan production offices
throughout the Company s markets. Consumer lending products may be originated through banking offices, indirect correspondents, brokers and other lending sources. The Company is also one of the largest providers of Visa      corporate and purchasing card services and corporate trust services in the United States. A wholly-owned subsidiary,
Elavon, Inc. ( Elavon ), provides merchant processing services directly to merchants and through a network of banking affiliations. Affiliates of Elavon provide similar merchant services in Canada, Mexico, Brazil and segments of Europe.
These foreign operations are not significant to the Company.      On a full-time equivalent basis, as of December 31, 2011,
U.S. Bancorp employed 62,529 people.       Competition       The commercial banking business is highly competitive. The Company s subsidiary banks compete with other commercial banks and with other financial institutions, including savings and loan
associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions and investment companies. In recent years, competition has increased from institutions not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as domestic banks
and bank holding companies. Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits and
customer convenience. The Company s ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on its ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs.
      Government Policies       The operations of the Company s various operating units are affected by federal and state legislative changes and by policies of various regulatory authorities, including those of the numerous states
in which they operate, the United States and foreign governments. These policies include, for example, statutory maximum   
         2   

legal lending rates, domestic monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, United States fiscal policy, international currency regulations and monetary policies, the
U.S. Patriot Act and capital adequacy and liquidity constraints imposed by bank regulatory agencies.       Supervision and Regulation
      U.S. Bancorp and its subsidiaries are subject to the extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding
companies and their subsidiaries. This regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the deposit insurance fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the  FDIC ), consumers and the stability of the
financial system in the United States and the health of the national economy, and not for investors in bank holding companies such as the Company.      This section summarizes certain provisions of the principal laws and regulations applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their
entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described below.      Substantial changes to the regulation
of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries have occurred and will continue to occur as a result of the enactment in 2010 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the  Dodd-Frank Act ). Changes in applicable
law or regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, have had and will continue to have a material effect on the business and results of the Company and its subsidiaries.   
   Dodd-Frank Act  The Dodd-Frank Act, which was enacted into law on July 21, 2010, significantly changed the regulatory
framework for financial services companies, and requires significant rulemaking and numerous studies and reports over the next several years. Among other things, it created a new Financial Stability Oversight Council (the  Council ) with
broad authority to make recommendations covering enhanced prudential standards and more stringent supervision for large bank holding companies and certain non-bank financial services companies. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly reduced interchange
fees on debit card transactions, limits the preemption of state laws applicable to national banks, increases the regulation of consumer mortgage banking and makes numerous other changes discussed below.   
  In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act, other legislative proposals affecting banks have been made both domestically and internationally.
Among other things, these proposals include additional capital and liquidity requirements and limitations on size or types of activity in which banks may engage.       Federal Reserve Regulation  The Company elected to become a financial holding company as of March 13, 2000, pursuant to the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the  GLBA ).
Under the GLBA s system of  functional regulation,  the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve ) acts as an  umbrella regulator  for the Company, and certain of the Company s
subsidiaries are regulated directly by additional agencies based on the particular activities of those subsidiaries. The Company s banking subsidiaries are regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the  OCC ) and
also by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC in certain areas. Supervision and regulation by the responsible regulatory agency generally includes comprehensive annual reviews of all major aspects of a bank s business and condition, and imposition
of periodic reporting requirements and limitations on investments and certain types of activities.      If a financial holding
company or a depository institution controlled by a financial holding company ceases to meet certain capital or management standards, the Federal Reserve may impose corrective capital and managerial requirements on the financial holding company, and
may place limitations on its ability to conduct all of the business activities that financial holding companies are generally permitted to conduct. See  Permissible Business Activities  below. If the failure to meet these standards
persists, a financial holding company may be required to divest its depository institution subsidiaries, or cease all activities other than those activities that may be conducted by bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies.
  
         3   

Federal Reserve regulations also provide that, if any depository institution controlled by a
financial holding company fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act ( CRA ), the Federal Reserve must prohibit the financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in the additional activities
in which only financial holding companies may engage. See  Community Reinvestment Act  below. At December 31, 2011, the Company s depository-institution subsidiaries met the capital, management and CRA requirements necessary to
permit the Company to conduct the broader activities permitted for financial holding companies under the GLBA.      The Dodd-Frank
Act codified existing Federal Reserve policy requiring the Company to act as a source of financial strength to its bank subsidiaries, and to commit resources to support these subsidiaries in circumstances where it might not otherwise do so. However,
because the GLBA provides for functional regulation of financial holding company activities by various regulators, the GLBA prohibits the Federal Reserve from requiring payment by a holding company to a depository institution if the functional
regulator of the depository institution objects to the payment. In those cases, the Federal Reserve could instead require the divestiture of the depository institution and impose operating restrictions pending the divestiture. As a result of the
Dodd-Frank Act, non-bank subsidiaries of a holding company that engage in activities permissible for an insured depository institution must be examined and regulated in a manner that is at least as stringent as if the activities were conducted by
the lead depository institution of the holding company.       Enhanced Prudential Standards/Early Remediation  In December
2011, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule relating to enhanced prudential standards required under the Dodd-Frank Act for bank holding companies with over $50 billion in consolidated assets. The prudential standards include enhanced
risk-based capital and leverage requirements, enhanced liquidity requirements, enhanced risk management and risk committee requirements, a requirement to submit a resolution plan, single-counterparty credit limits and stress tests. The proposal
requires the Federal Reserve to conduct annual supervisory capital adequacy stress tests of covered companies under baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios, and requires covered companies to conduct their own capital adequacy stress tests.
The proposal would provide for notification to a covered company as to which the Council has determined to impose a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15-to-1, based upon the determination by the Council that (a) such company poses a grave
threat to the financial stability of the United States and (b) the imposition of such a requirement is necessary to mitigate the risk that the company poses to the financial stability of the United States.   
  The proposed rule also provides, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, for the early remediation of financial distress at covered companies
so as to minimize the probability that the company will become insolvent and to reduce the potential harm of the insolvency of a covered company to the financial stability of the United States. Remedies include, in the initial stages of financial
decline of the covered company, limits on capital distributions, acquisitions and asset growth. Remedies in the later stages of financial decline of the covered company include a capital restoration plan and capital-raising requirements, limits on
transactions with affiliates, management changes and asset sales. In addition to regulatory capital triggers, the proposed rule includes triggers based on supervisory stress test results, market indicators and weaknesses in enterprise-wide and
liquidity risk management.       Permissible Business Activities  As a financial holding company, the Company may
affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature.  Financial in nature  activities include the
following: securities underwriting, dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking; and activities that the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the
United States Treasury, determines to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity.  Complementary activities  are activities that the Federal Reserve determines upon application to be complementary to a financial
activity and that do not pose a safety and soundness risk.      The Company generally does not need Federal Reserve approval to
acquire a company (other than a bank holding company, bank or savings association) engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to   
         4   

activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the Federal Reserve. However, the Dodd-Frank Act added a provision requiring that approval if the total consolidated assets to be
acquired exceed $10 billion. Financial holding companies are also required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve before they may acquire more than 5 percent of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of an unaffiliated
bank holding company, bank or savings association.       Interstate Banking  Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking
and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the  Riegle-Neal Act ), a bank holding company may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum
period of time (not to exceed five years). Also, such an acquisition is not permitted if the bank holding company controls, prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured
depository institutions nationwide, or, if the acquisition is the bank holding company s initial entry into the state, more than 30 percent of the deposits of insured depository institutions in the state (or any lesser or greater amount
set by the state).      The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines to create interstate branches. Under
the Dodd-Frank Act, banks are permitted to establish new branches in another state to the same extent as banks chartered in the other state.       Regulatory Approval for Acquisitions  In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider a number of factors, including the following: the
effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition and future prospects (including current and projected capital ratios and levels); the competence, experience and integrity of management and its record of compliance with laws and
regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served (including the acquiring institution s record of compliance under the CRA); and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. In
addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, approval of interstate transactions requires that the acquiror satisfy regulatory standards for well capitalized and well managed institutions.   
   Dividend Restrictions  The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. Typically, the majority of
the Company s operating funds are received in the form of dividends paid to the Company by U.S. Bank National Association, its principal banking subsidiary. Federal law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by national banks.
     Dividends payable by U.S. Bank National Association, U.S. Bank National Association ND and the Company s trust
bank subsidiaries, as national banking associations, are limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under a  recent earnings  test and an  undivided profits  test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid
if the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar year is in excess of the current year s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless the bank obtains the approval of the OCC. Under the
undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of a bank s  undivided profits.  See Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company s 2011 Annual Report for the amount of
dividends that the Company s principal banking subsidiaries could pay to the Company at December 31, 2011, without the approval of their banking regulators.      In addition to the dividend restrictions described above, the OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise
(including the Company and its bank subsidiaries), if, in the banking regulator s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. Subject to
exceptions for well capitalized and well managed holding companies, Federal Reserve regulations also require approval of holding company purchases and redemptions of its securities if the gross consideration paid exceeds 10 percent of
consolidated net worth for any 12-month period.      In addition, Federal Reserve policy on the payment of dividends, stock
redemptions and stock repurchases requires that bank holding companies consult with and inform the Federal Reserve in advance of doing any of the following: declaring and paying dividends that could raise safety and soundness concerns ( e.g. ,
declaring and paying dividends that exceed earnings for the period for which dividends are being paid); redeeming or   
         5   

repurchasing capital instruments when experiencing financial weakness; and redeeming or repurchasing common stock and perpetual preferred stock, if the result will be a net reduction in the
amount of such capital instruments outstanding for the quarter in which the reduction occurs.      In 2010, the Federal Reserve
issued an addendum to its policy on dividends, stock redemptions and stock repurchases that is specifically applicable to the 19 largest bank holding companies (including the Company) that are covered by the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program.
The addendum provides for Federal Reserve review of dividend increases, implementation of capital repurchase programs and other capital repurchases or redemptions.       Capital Requirements  Federal banking regulators have adopted risk-based capital and leverage guidelines that require the capital-to-assets ratios of financial institutions to meet certain
minimum standards. The risk-based capital ratio is calculated by allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet financial instruments into risk weighted categories (with higher levels of capital being required for the categories perceived as
representing greater risk), and is used to determine the amount of a financial institution s total risk-weighted assets ( RWAs ).      Under the guidelines, capital is divided into two tiers: Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The amount of Tier 2 capital may not exceed the amount of Tier 1 capital. Total capital is
the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Under the guidelines, banking organizations are required to maintain a total capital ratio (total capital to RWA) of 8 percent and a Tier 1 capital ratio (Tier 1 capital to RWA)
of 4 percent. At December 31, 2011, the Company s consolidated total capital ratio was 13.3 percent and its Tier 1 capital ratio was 10.8 percent. For a further description of these guidelines, see Note 15 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company s 2011 Annual Report.      The federal banking regulators also have
established minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets. The minimum leverage ratio is 3 percent for bank holding companies that are considered
 strong  under Federal Reserve guidelines or which have implemented the Federal Reserve s risk-based capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies must have a minimum leverage ratio of 4 percent. Bank holding
companies may be expected to maintain ratios well above the minimum levels, depending upon their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. At December 31, 2011, the Company s leverage ratio was 9.1 percent.   
  The Dodd-Frank Act effectively eliminated differences between the minimum capital requirements applicable to insured depository
institutions and their holding companies by phasing out the use of hybrid debt instruments (such as trust preferred securities) in determining holding company regulatory capital.   
  For additional information regarding the Company s regulatory capital, see Capital Management in the Company s 2011 Annual
Report on pages 55 to 56.       Capital Plan Requirement/Minimum Capital Level  In 2011, the Federal Reserve issued a
final rule amending Regulation Y to require bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to submit capital plans to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis. The Company submitted its first capital plan in January
2012. The Federal Reserve must object or provide notice of non-objection to the plan by March 31, 2012.      Companies
must demonstrate in their capital plans how they will maintain a minimum Tier 1 common ratio above 5 percent under stressful conditions using the Federal Reserve s existing supervisory definition of Tier 1 common capital. If the
Federal Reserve objects to a capital plan and until such time as the Federal Reserve issues a non-objection to the bank holding company s capital plan, the bank holding company may not make any capital distribution, other than those capital
distributions with respect to which the Federal Reserve has indicated its non-objection.       Basel III Capital
Requirements/Capital Surcharge/Additional Loss Absorbency Requirement/Liquidity  In June 2011, the Basel Committee revised the new capital and liquidity standards issued in October 2010, known
  
         6   

as Basel III. As of January 1, 2013, banks will be required to meet new minimum requirements in relation to RWAs. Minimum common equity and Tier 1 capital requirements will be phased in
between January 1, 2013 and January 1, 2015. A  capital conservation buffer  will be phased in between January 1, 2016 and December 31, 2018, becoming fully effective on January 1, 2019.   
  In early 2012, the Federal Reserve is expected to promulgate proposed rules implementing the new market risk capital requirements from
the Basel accords, to include book securitization and resecuritization elements and to adopt the Basel III framework. The Federal Reserve is expected to approve capital distributions only when they are consistent with a bank holding company
 readily and without difficulty  meeting the new capital requirements as they come into effect.      The Basel III
liquidity component sets out two minimum standards for funding liquidity: the Liquidity Coverage Ratio ( LCR ), which is designed to promote the short-term resilience of a bank s liquidity risk profile by ensuring that it has
sufficient high-quality liquid assets to survive a significant stress scenario lasting for 30 calendar days; and the Net Stable Funding Ratio ( NSFR ), which is designed to promote longer-term resilience by requiring banks to have capital
or longer term high-quality funding so that the banks can survive over a one-year period of less severe stress. The LCR will be introduced on January 1, 2015. The NSFR will move to a minimum standard by January 1, 2018. The Federal Reserve
in its proposed rule for enhanced prudential standards has stated that it intends to implement these liquidity standards in the United States through one or more separate rules.   
   Stress Testing  In November 2011, the Federal Reserve launched its Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review process. The Federal
Reserve issued the macroeconomic and financial market scenarios it is requiring institutions to use to support the stress testing used in their capital plans. Institutions were required to submit their capital plans by January 9, 2012, and the
Company did so. The Federal Reserve will conduct a supervisory stress test for the 19 largest bank holding companies (including the Company) to help assess the capital plans and the appropriateness of capital levels for those companies. In January
2012, the OCC issued a proposed rule requiring national banks with more than $10 billion in total consolidated assets to conduct a separate annual stress test to help identify potential impact of adverse outcomes on the bank s capital adequacy.
      Risk-Based Capital Standards: Establishment of a Risk-Based Capital Floor  In June 2011, the OCC, the Federal Reserve
and the FDIC adopted a final rule to implement certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, which require these agencies to establish minimum risk-based capital requirements on a consolidated basis for insured depository institutions. Under the rule,
banks and bank holding companies must maintain a minimum total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0 percent and a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.0 percent.       Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (the  FDICIA ) provides a framework for regulation of
depository institutions and their affiliates (including parent holding companies) by federal banking regulators. As part of that framework, the FDICIA requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take  prompt corrective action  with
respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards.      Supervisory actions
by the appropriate federal banking regulator under the  prompt corrective action  rules generally depend upon an institution s classification within five capital categories. The regulations apply only to banks and not to bank holding
companies such as the Company; however, subject to limitations that may be imposed pursuant to the GLBA, the Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, based on the undercapitalized status of the holding
company s subsidiary banking institutions. In certain instances relating to an undercapitalized banking institution, the bank holding company would be required to guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary s capital
restoration plan and could be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill those guarantee commitments.       Deposit
Insurance  Under current FDIC regulations, each depository institution is assigned to a risk category based on capital and supervisory measures. In 2009, the FDIC revised the method for calculating the assessment rate for depository
institutions by introducing several adjustments to an institution s initial base assessment rate.   
         7   

A depository institution is assessed premiums by the FDIC based on its risk category and the amount of deposits held. Higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased FDIC resolution
costs and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, in 2008, the amount of FDIC insurance coverage for insured deposits was generally increased from $100,000 per depositor account ownership type to $250,000.   
  In light of the increased stress on the deposit insurance fund caused by these developments, and in order to maintain a strong funding
position and restore the reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC (a) imposed a special assessment in June 2009, (b) increased assessment rates of insured institutions generally, and (c) required insured institutions to
prepay on December 30, 2009 the premiums that were expected to become due for 2010, 2011 and 2012. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act altered the assessment base for deposit insurance assessments from a deposit to an asset base, and seeks to fund
part of the cost of the Dodd-Frank Act by increasing the deposit insurance reserve fund to 1.35 percent of estimated insured deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires that FDIC assessments be set in a manner that offsets the cost of the
assessment increases for institutions with consolidated assets of less than $10 billion. This provision effectively places the increased assessment costs on larger financial institutions such as the Company.   
  The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased deposit insurance coverage from $100,000 per account ownership type to $250,000, and
extended the unlimited insurance of non-interest bearing transaction accounts under the FDIC Transaction Account Guaranty program to January 1, 2013.       Deposit Insurance Assessments  In February 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule implementing revisions to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act made by the Dodd-Frank Act, including a revision which
changes the assessment base for deposit insurance premiums, and which provides for use of a risk scorecard to determine deposit premiums. The effect of the rule was first reflected in the invoices for assessments due September 30, 2011, and
substantially increased the FDIC premiums paid by the Company s banking subsidiaries.       Powers of the FDIC Upon
Insolvency of an Insured Institution  If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an insured depository institution upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power to (a) transfer any of the depository
institution s assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository institution s creditors; (b) enforce the terms of the depository institution s contracts pursuant to their terms; or (c) repudiate
or disaffirm any contracts (if the FDIC determines that performance of the contract is burdensome and that the repudiation or disaffirmation is necessary to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution). These provisions would be
applicable to obligations and liabilities of the Company s subsidiaries that are insured depository institutions, such as U.S. Bank National Association.       Depositor Preference  Under federal law, in the event of the liquidation or other resolution of an insured depository institution, the claims of a receiver of the institution for administrative
expense and the claims of holders of domestic deposit liabilities (including the FDIC, as subrogee of the depositors) have priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors of the institution, including holders of publicly issued senior or
subordinated debt and depositors in non-domestic offices. As a result, those noteholders and depositors would be treated differently from, and could receive, if anything, substantially less than, the depositors in domestic offices of the
depository.       Orderly Liquidation Authority  The FDIC issued a final rule effective August 15, 2011 to implement the
liquidation provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The rule provides a comprehensive framework for the orderly liquidation of a covered financial company. A covered financial company is a financial company (including a bank holding company, but not an
insured depository), in situations where the Secretary of the Treasury determines (upon the written recommendation of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve and after consultation with the President) that the conditions set forth in the Dodd-Frank Act
regarding the impact of the financial company s failure have been met. The rule sets forth a comprehensive method for the receivership of a covered financial company. The Company is a financial company and therefore is potentially subject to
the orderly liquidation authority of the FDIC. In preparation for the potential exercise of this authority, the FDIC created the Office of Complex Financial Institutions. Its duties include the continuous review and oversight of bank holding
companies with assets of more than $100 billion.   
         8   

Resolution Plans  Effective November 30, 2011, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC
adopted a final rule to implement the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act regarding annual resolution plans for bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more. The final rule requires each covered company to produce a resolution plan that
includes information regarding the manner and extent to which any insured depository institution affiliated with the company is adequately protected from risks arising from the activities of any nonbank subsidiaries of the company; full descriptions
of ownership structure, assets, liabilities and contractual obligations of the company; identification of the cross-guarantees tied to different securities; identification of major counterparties; a process for determining to whom the collateral of
the company is pledged; and any other information that the Federal Reserve and the FDIC jointly require by rule or order. Plans must analyze baseline, adverse, and severely adverse economic condition impacts. The plan must demonstrate, in the event
of material financial distress or failure of the covered company, a reorganization or liquidation of the covered company under the federal bankruptcy code that could be accomplished within a reasonable period of time and in a manner that
substantially mitigates the risk that the failure of the covered company would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the United States. Covered companies and their subsidiaries are subject to more stringent capital, leverage and
liquidity requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations if they fail to file an acceptable plan.      In
January 2012, the FDIC adopted a final rule requiring an insured depository institution with $50 billion or more in total assets to submit periodically to the FDIC a contingency plan for the resolution of such institution in the event of its
failure. The rule requires a covered depository institution to submit a resolution plan that should enable the FDIC, as receiver, to resolve the institution under applicable receivership provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act in a manner
that ensures that depositors receive access to their insured deposits within one business day of the institution s failure, maximizes the net present value return from the sale or disposition of its assets and minimizes the amount of any loss
to be realized by the institution s creditors. The Company will be required to file both resolution plans in 2013.   
   Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions  An FDIC-insured depository institution can be held liable for any loss incurred
or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with another FDIC-insured institution under common control with that institution being  in default  or  in danger of default  (commonly referred to as
 cross-guarantee  liability). An FDIC claim for cross-guarantee liability against a depository institution is generally superior in right of payment to claims of the holding company and its affiliates against the depository institution.
      Transactions with Affiliates  There are various legal restrictions on the extent to which the Company and its
non-bank subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise obtain funding from the Company s banking subsidiaries, including U.S. Bank National Association and U.S. Bank National Association ND. Under the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W
of the Federal Reserve, the Company s banking subsidiaries (and their subsidiaries) may only engage in lending and other  covered transactions  with non-bank and non-savings bank affiliates to the following extent: (a) in the
case of any single affiliate, the aggregate amount of covered transactions may not exceed 10 percent of the capital stock and surplus of the banking subsidiary; and (b) in the case of all affiliates, the aggregate amount of covered
transactions may not exceed 20 percent of the capital stock and surplus of the banking subsidiary.      Covered transactions
between the Company s banking subsidiaries and their affiliates are also subject to certain collateralization requirements. All covered transactions, including transactions with a third party in which an affiliate of the banking subsidiary has
a financial interest, must be conducted on market terms.  Covered transactions  are defined to include (a) a loan or extension of credit by a bank subsidiary to an affiliate, (b) a purchase of securities issued to a banking
subsidiary by an affiliate, (c) a purchase of assets (unless otherwise exempted by the Federal Reserve) by the banking subsidiary from an affiliate, (d) the acceptance of securities issued by an affiliate to the banking subsidiary as
collateral for a loan, and (e) the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit by the banking subsidiary on behalf of an affiliate. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the special treatment for transactions with financial subsidiaries.
  
         9   

Anti-Money Laundering and Suspicious Activity  Several federal laws, including
the Bank Secrecy Act, the Money Laundering Control Act and the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the  Patriot Act ) require all financial institutions
(including banks and securities broker-dealers) to, among other things, implement policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The
Patriot Act also requires federal bank regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering when determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition.   
   Community Reinvestment Act  The Company s banking subsidiaries are subject to the provisions of the CRA. Under the terms
of the CRA, the banks have a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with safe and sound operation, to help meet the credit needs of their communities, including providing credit to individuals residing in low- and moderate-income
neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions, and does not limit an institution s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its
particular community in a manner consistent with the CRA.      The OCC regularly assesses each of the Company s banking
subsidiaries on its record in meeting the credit needs of the community served by that institution, including low-income and moderate-income neighborhoods. The assessment also is considered when the Federal Reserve reviews applications by banking
institutions to acquire, merge or consolidate with another banking institution or its holding company, to establish a new branch office that will accept deposits or to relocate an office. In the case of a bank holding company applying for approval
to acquire a bank or other bank holding company, the Federal Reserve will assess the records of each subsidiary depository institution of the applicant bank holding company, and those records may be the basis for denying the application.   
  U.S. Bank National Association received an  outstanding  CRA rating and U.S. Bank National Association ND received a
 satisfactory  CRA rating in their most recent examinations, covering the periods from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2008.       Regulation of Brokerage, Investment Advisory and Insurance Activities  The Company conducts securities underwriting, dealing and brokerage activities in the United States through
U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc. ( USBII ) and other subsidiaries. These activities are subject to regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and other
authorities, including state regulators. These regulations generally include licensing of securities personnel, interactions with customers, trading operations and periodic examinations.   
  Securities regulators impose capital requirements on USBII and monitor its financial operations with periodical financial reviews. In
addition, USBII is a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.      The operations of First American Funds money
market funds also are subject to regulation by the SEC. The Company s operations in the areas of insurance brokerage and reinsurance of credit life insurance are subject to regulation and supervision by various state insurance regulatory
authorities, including the licensing of insurance brokers and agents.       Credit Risk Retention  The Dodd-Frank Act
requires credit retention of 5 percent of any asset included in a securitization, or less than 5 percent if the assets meet underwriting standards established by regulation. Federal banking regulators are expected to issue final rules in 2012, which
could affect the Company s assets generation and securitization strategies, especially for residential mortgages.       The
Volcker Rule   Proprietary Trading of Securities, Derivatives, and Certain other Financial Instruments  In October 2011, the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC proposed a rule to implement the so called  Volcker Rule 
under the Dodd-Frank Act. The Volcker Rule prohibits banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading of securities, derivatives and certain other financial instruments for the entity s own accord, and prohibits certain interests in, or
relationships with, a hedge fund or private equity fund. This rule will apply to the Company, its banking subsidiaries and their affiliates.       Financial Privacy  Under the requirements imposed by the GLBA, the Company and its subsidiaries are required periodically to disclose to their retail customers the Company s policies and
practices with respect to the   
         10   

sharing of nonpublic customer information with its affiliates and others, and the confidentiality and security of that information. Under the GLBA, retail customers also must be given the
opportunity to  opt out  of information-sharing arrangements with nonaffiliates, subject to certain exceptions set forth in the GLBA.       Incentive-Based Compensation Arrangements  In April 2011, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the SEC, the National Credit Union Administration and the Federal Housing Finance Agency issued a
proposed rule under the Dodd-Frank Act that would require the reporting of incentive-based compensation arrangements by a covered financial institution, and prohibit incentive-based compensation arrangements at a covered financial institution that
provide excessive compensation or that could expose the institution to inappropriate risks that could lead to material financial loss.       The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection  In July 2011, all consumer financial protection functions of the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC were transferred to the Bureau of Consumer
Financial Protection (the  Bureau ). All consumer protection functions of the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development relating to the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage
Licensing Act, and the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act were also transferred to the Bureau at such time. In addition, the authority of the Federal Trade Commission to prescribe rules, issue guidelines or conduct a study or issue a report
mandated under such laws transferred to the Bureau. The Bureau has assumed all authority to prescribe rules or issue orders or guidelines pursuant to any federal consumer financial law. On July 21, 2011, the Bureau began an examination process
for insured depository financial institutions with assets over $10 billion, which includes the Company s bank subsidiaries. The Bureau has authority to regulate the offering and provision of consumer financial products or services under the
federal consumer financial laws, and the Bureau is expected to undertake a number of rule-making and enforcement initiatives in 2012 under this authority.       Other Supervision and Regulation  The activities of U.S. Bank National Association and U.S. Bank National Association ND as consumer lenders also are subject to regulation under
various United States federal laws, including the Truth-in-Lending, Equal Credit Opportunity, Fair Credit Reporting, Fair Debt Collection Practice and Electronic Funds Transfer acts, as well as various state laws. These statutes impose
requirements on consumer loan origination and collection practices.      The Company is subject to the disclosure and regulatory
requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), both as administered by the SEC, by virtue of the Company s status as a public company. As a listed
company on the New York Stock Exchange (the  NYSE ), the Company is subject to the rules of the NYSE for listed companies.   
   Website Access to SEC Reports       U.S. Bancorp s internet website can be found at  usbank.com . U.S. Bancorp makes available free of charge on its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as well as all other reports filed by U.S. Bancorp with the SEC as soon as reasonably
practicable after electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.       Additional Information    
  Additional information in response to this Item 1 can be found in the Company s 2011 Annual Report on page 20 under the
heading  Acquisitions  and on pages 57 to 62 under the heading  Line of Business Financial Review.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.   

Item 1A.   
      Risk Factors            Information in response to this Item 1A can be found in the Company s 2011 Annual Report on pages 134 to 142 under the heading  Risk Factors.  That information is incorporated into
this report by reference.   
         11   

Item 1B.   
      Unresolved Staff Comments            None.       

Item 2.   
      Properties            U.S. Bancorp and its significant subsidiaries occupy headquarter offices under a long-term lease in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Company also leases nine freestanding operations centers in Cincinnati,
Denver, Milwaukee, Minneapolis, Overland Park, Portland and St. Paul. The Company owns 11 principal operations centers in Cincinnati, Coeur d Alene, Fargo, Milwaukee, Olathe, Owensboro, Portland, St. Louis and St. Paul. At
December 31, 2011, the Company s subsidiaries owned and operated a total of 1,514 facilities and leased an additional 1,987 facilities, all of which are well maintained. The Company believes its current facilities are adequate to meet its
needs. Additional information with respect to premises and equipment is presented in Notes 9 and 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company s 2011 Annual Report. That information is incorporated into this
report by reference.       

Item 3.   
      Legal Proceedings            None.       

Item 4.   
      Mine Safety Disclosures            Not Applicable.       

Capital Covenants       The Company has entered into several transactions involving the issuance of capital securities ( Capital Securities ) by Delaware statutory trusts formed by the Company (the  Trusts ),
the issuance by the Company of preferred stock ( Preferred Stock ) or the issuance by an indirect subsidiary of U.S. Bank National Association of preferred stock exchangeable for the Company s Preferred Stock under certain
circumstances ( Exchangeable Preferred Stock ). Simultaneously with the closing of each of those transactions, the Company entered into a replacement capital covenant (each, a  Replacement Capital Covenant  and collectively, the
 Replacement Capital Covenants ) for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of long-term indebtedness of the Company or U.S. Bank National Association (the  Covered Debt ). Each of the Replacement
Capital Covenants provides that neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries (including any of the Trusts) will repay, redeem or purchase any of the Preferred Stock, Exchangeable Preferred Stock or the Capital Securities and the securities held
by the Trust (the  Other Securities ), as applicable, on or before the date specified in the applicable Replacement Capital Covenant, with certain limited exceptions, except to the extent that, during the 180 days prior to the date of
that repayment, redemption or purchase, the Company has received proceeds from the sale of qualifying securities that (a) have equity-like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity-like than, the applicable characteristics of the
Preferred Stock, the Exchangeable Preferred Stock, the Capital Securities or Other Securities, as applicable, at the time of repayment, redemption or purchase, and (b) the Company has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, if
such approval is then required by the Federal Reserve Board or, in the case of the Exchangeable Preferred Stock, the approval of the OCC.      The Company will provide a copy of any Replacement Capital Covenant to a holder of the relevant Covered Debt. For copies of any of these documents, holders should write to Investor Relations,
U.S. Bancorp, 800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402, or call (866) 775-9668.   
         12   

The following table identifies the closing date for each transaction, issuer, series of
Capital Securities, Preferred Stock or Exchangeable Preferred Stock issued in the relevant transaction, Other Securities, if any, and applicable Covered Debt.       

(a)   
   USB Realty Corp. is an indirect subsidiary of U.S. Bank National Association.      

(b)   
   Under certain circumstances, upon the direction of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, each share of USB Realty Corp. s Series A Preferred Stock
will be automatically exchanged for one share of the U.S. Bancorp s Series C Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock.      
         13   

PART II    

Item 5.   
      Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities         
  On March 18, 2011, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had approved an authorization to repurchase 50 million
shares of common stock through December 31, 2011. On December 13, 2011, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had approved an extension of the date through which shares may be repurchased under this authorization to
March 31, 2012. All shares repurchased during the fourth quarter of 2011 were repurchased under this authorization. The following table provides a detailed analysis of all shares repurchased by the Company during the fourth quarter of 2011:
      
     Additional Information       Additional information in response to this Item 5 can be found in the Company s 2011 Annual Report on page 131 under the heading  U.S. Bancorp Supplemental Financial Data
(Unaudited).  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.       

Item 6.   
      Selected Financial Data            Information in response to this Item 6 can be found in the Company s 2011 Annual Report on page 19 under the heading  Table 1   Selected Financial Data.  That
information is incorporated into this report by reference.       

Item 7.   
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
  Information in response to this Item 7 can be found in the Company s 2011 Annual Report on pages 18 to 66 under the heading
 Management s Discussion and Analysis.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.       

Item 7A.   
      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk         
  Information in response to this Item 7A can be found in the Company s 2011 Annual Report on pages 34 to 56 under the heading
 Corporate Risk Profile.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.       

Item 8.   
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data            Information in response to this Item 8 can be found in the Company s 2011 Annual Report on pages 67 to 133 under the headings  Report of Management,   Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Consolidated Financial Statements,   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,   U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Balance
Sheet,   U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Income,   U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Shareholders  Equity,   U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows,   Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements,   U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheet   Five Year Summary (Unaudited),   U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of   
         14   

Income   Five Year Summary (Unaudited),   U.S. Bancorp Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited),   U.S. Bancorp Supplemental Financial Data
(Unaudited)  and  U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Daily Average Balance Sheet and Related Yields and Rates (Unaudited).  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.   

Item 9.   
      Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure         
  None.       

Item 9A.   
      Controls and Procedures            Information in response to this Item 9A can be found in the Company s 2011 Annual Report on page 66 under the heading  Controls and Procedures  and on pages 67 and 69 under the
headings  Report of Management  and  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.   

Item 9B.   
      Other Information            None.       PART III    

Item 10.   
      Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance             Executive Officers of the Registrant         Richard K. Davis
       Mr. Davis is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Davis, 54, has served
as Chairman of U.S. Bancorp since December 2007, Chief Executive Officer since December 2006 and President since October 2004. He also served as Chief Operating Officer from October 2004 until December 2006. Mr. Davis has held management
positions with the Company since joining Star Banc Corporation, one of its predecessors, in 1993 as Executive Vice President.   
    Jennie P. Carlson        Ms. Carlson is Executive Vice President, Human Resources, of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Carlson, 51, has served in this position since January 2002. Until that time, she served as Executive Vice
President, Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of U.S. Bancorp since the merger of Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February 2001. From 1995 until the merger, she was General Counsel and Secretary of Firstar Corporation
and Star Banc Corporation.        Andrew Cecere     
  Mr. Cecere is Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Cecere, 51, has served in this position since
February 2007. Until that time, he served as Vice Chairman, Wealth Management and Securities Services of U.S. Bancorp since the merger of Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February 2001. Previously, he had served as an executive officer
of the former U.S. Bancorp, including as Chief Financial Officer from May 2000 through February 2001.        Terrance R.
Dolan        Mr. Dolan is Vice Chairman, Wealth Management and Securities Services, of U.S. Bancorp.
Mr. Dolan, 50, has served in this position since July 2010. From September 1998 to July 2010, Mr. Dolan served as U.S. Bancorp s Controller. He additionally held the title of Executive Vice President from January 2002 until June
2010 and Senior Vice President from September 1998 until January 2002.   
         15   

Richard C. Hartnack     
  Mr. Hartnack is Vice Chairman, Consumer and Small Business Banking, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hartnack, 66, has served in this
position since April 2005, when he joined U.S. Bancorp. Prior to joining U.S. Bancorp, he served as Vice Chairman of Union Bank of California from 1991 to 2005 with responsibility for Community Banking and Investment Services.   
    Richard J. Hidy        Mr. Hidy is Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hidy, 49, has served in this position since 2005. From 2003 until 2005, he served as Senior Vice President
and Deputy General Counsel of U.S. Bancorp, having served as Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel of U.S. Bancorp and Firstar Corporation since 1999.        Joseph C. Hoesley        Mr. Hoesley is Vice Chairman, Commercial
Real Estate, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hoesley, 57, has served in this position since June 2006. From June 2002 until June 2006, he served as Executive Vice President and National Group Head of Commercial Real Estate at U.S. Bancorp,
having previously served as Senior Vice President and Group Head of Commercial Real Estate since joining U.S. Bancorp in 1992.        Pamela A. Joseph        Ms. Joseph is Vice Chairman, Payment
Services, of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Joseph, 52, has served in this position since December 2004. Since November 2004, she has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Elavon Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp. Prior to
that time, she had been President and Chief Operating Officer of Elavon Inc. since February 2000.        Howell D. McCullough
III        Mr. McCullough is Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer of U.S. Bancorp and Head of
U.S. Bancorp s Enterprise Revenue Office. Mr. McCullough, 55, has served in these positions since September 2007. From July 2005 until September 2007, he served as Director of Strategy and Acquisitions of the Payment Services
business of U.S. Bancorp. He also served as Chief Financial Officer of the Payment Services business from October 2006 until September 2007. From March 2001 until July 2005, he served as Senior Vice President and Director of Investor Relations
at U.S. Bancorp.        Lee R. Mitau        Mr. Mitau is Executive Vice President and General Counsel of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Mitau, 63, has served in this position since 1995. Mr. Mitau also serves as Corporate Secretary. Prior to
1995 he was a partner at the law firm of Dorsey   Whitney LLP.        P.W. Parker     
  Mr. Parker is Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Parker, 55, has served in this
position since October 2007. From March 2005 until October 2007, he served as Executive Vice President of Credit Portfolio Management of U.S. Bancorp, having served as Senior Vice President of Credit Portfolio Management of U.S. Bancorp
since January 2002.        Richard B. Payne, Jr.     
  Mr. Payne is Vice Chairman, Wholesale Banking, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Payne, 64, has served in this position since November
2010, when he assumed the additional responsibility for Commercial Banking at U.S. Bancorp. From July 2006, when he joined U.S. Bancorp, until November 2010, Mr. Payne served as Vice
  
         16   

Chairman, Corporate Banking at U.S. Bancorp. Prior to joining U.S. Bancorp, he served as Executive Vice President for National City Corporation in Cleveland, with responsibility for
Capital Markets, from 2001 to 2006.        Jeffry H. von Gillern     
  Mr. von Gillern is Vice Chairman, Technology and Operations Services, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. von Gillern, 46, has served in
this position since July 2010. From April 2001, when he joined U.S. Bancorp, until July 2010, Mr. von Gillern served as Executive Vice President of U.S. Bancorp, additionally serving as Chief Information Officer from July 2007 until
July 2010.       Code of Ethics and Business Conduct       The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that applies to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. The Company s Code of
Ethics and Business Conduct can be found at  www.usbank.com  by clicking on  About U.S. Bank  and then clicking on  Ethics  under the  Investor/Shareholder Information  heading, which is located at the left
side of the bottom of the page. The Company intends to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding amendments to, or waivers from, certain provisions of the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that apply to
its principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer by posting such information on its website, at the address and location specified above.       Additional Information       Additional information in response to this
Item 10 can be found in the Company s Proxy Statement under the headings  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,   Proposal 1   Election of Directors  and  Board Meetings and
Committees.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.       

Item 11.   
      Executive Compensation            Information in response to this Item 11 can be found in the Company s Proxy Statement under the headings  Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Compensation Committee
Report,   Executive Compensation  and  Director Compensation.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.   
         17   

Item 12.   
      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters         
    Equity Compensation Plan Information        The following table summarizes information regarding the Company s equity compensation plans in effect as of December 31, 2011:   

(1)   
   No shares are available for granting future awards under the U.S. Bancorp 2001 Stock Incentive Plan.      

The 64,540,960 shares available under the Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Incentive Plan are available for future awards in the form of stock options, stock
appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance awards or other stock-based awards, except that only 20,697,650 of these shares are available for future grants of awards other than stock options or stock appreciation
rights.      

(2)   
   Includes shares underlying stock options, performance-based restricted stock units (awarded to the members of the Company s managing committee in 2011 and
convertible into shares of the Company s common stock on a one-for-one basis), and restricted stock units (convertible into shares of the Company s common stock on a one-for-one basis) under the Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Incentive
Plan and the U.S. Bancorp 2001 Stock Incentive Plan. Excludes 137,620 shares, with a weighted-average exercise price of $19.86, underlying outstanding stock options and warrants assumed by U.S. Bancorp in connection with acquisitions by
U.S. Bancorp.      

(3)   
   These shares of common stock are issuable pursuant to various current and former deferred compensation plans of U.S. Bancorp and its predecessor entities. The
weighted-average exercise price does not include any assumed price at issuance of shares that may be issuable pursuant to the deferred compensation plans.         The deferred compensation plans allow non-employee directors and members of the Company s senior management to defer all or part of their compensation until the earlier of retirement or termination
of employment. The deferred compensation is deemed to be invested in one of several investment alternatives at the option of the participant, including shares of U.S. Bancorp common stock. Deferred compensation deemed to be invested in U.S. Bancorp
stock may be received at the time of distribution, at the election of the participant, in the form of shares of U.S. Bancorp common stock. The 2,263,157 shares included in the table assume that participants in the plans whose deferred
compensation had been deemed to be invested in U.S. Bancorp common stock had elected to receive all of that deferred compensation in shares of U.S. Bancorp common stock on December 31, 2011. The U.S. Bank Executive Employee Deferred
Compensation Plan (2005 Statement) and the U.S. Bank Outside Directors Deferred Compensation Plan (2005 Statement) are the Company s only deferred compensation plans under which compensation may currently be deferred.   
   Additional Information    
  Additional information in response to this Item 12 can be found in the Company s Proxy Statement under the heading
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.   
         18   

Item 13.   
        Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence           
  Information in response to this Item 13 can be found in the Company s Proxy Statement under the headings  Director
Independence  and  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.       

Item 14.   
      Principal Accounting Fees and Services            Information in response to this Item 14 can be found in the Company s Proxy Statement under the headings  Fees to Independent Auditor  and  Administration of Engagement of
Independent Auditor.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.       PART IV    

Item 15.       
    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules            List of documents filed as part of this report       1. Financial Statements    

Report of Management          

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Consolidated Financial Statements      

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting      

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011      

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Shareholders  Equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheet   Five Year Summary (Unaudited)      

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Income   Five Year Summary (Unaudited)      

U.S. Bancorp Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)      

U.S. Bancorp Supplemental Financial Data (Unaudited)      

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Daily Average Balance Sheet and Related Yields and Rates (Unaudited)      
       2. Financial Statement Schedules    
  All financial statement schedules for the Company have been included in the consolidated financial statements or the related footnotes, or
are either inapplicable or not required.   
         19   

3. Exhibits       Shareholders may obtain a copy of any of the exhibits to this report upon payment of a fee covering the Company s reasonable expenses in furnishing the exhibits. You can request exhibits by writing
to Investor Relations, U.S. Bancorp, 800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402.       
 
         20   

21   

22   

(1)   
   Exhibit has been previously filed with the SEC and is incorporated herein as an exhibit by reference to the prior filing.      

(2)   
   Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.      
         23   

SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on February 23, 2012, on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

U.S. BANCORP    

By  
     
  /s/ R ICHARD  K. D AVIS    

Richard K. Davis   

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer   
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below on February 23, 2012, by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.       

Signature and Title     

/s/ R ICHARD  K. D AVIS    
 
  Richard K. Davis,   
 
    Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer     (principal executive officer)    

/s/ A NDREW  C ECERE    
 
  Andrew Cecere,   
 
    Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer     (principal financial officer)    

/s/ C RAIG  E. G IFFORD    
 
  Craig E. Gifford,   
 
    Executive Vice President and Controller     (principal accounting officer)    

D OUGLAS  M. B AKER , J R .*   
 
  Douglas M. Baker, Jr., Director   

Y. M ARC  B ELTON *   
 
  Y. Marc Belton, Director   

V ICTORIA  B UYNISKI  G LUCKMAN *   
 
  Victoria Buyniski Gluckman, Director   

A RTHUR  D. C OLLINS *   
 
  Arthur D. Collins, Jr., Director   

R OLAND  A. H ERNANDEZ *   
 
  Roland A. Hernandez, Director   

J OEL  W. J OHNSON *   
 
  Joel W. Johnson, Director   

O LIVIA  F. K IRTLEY *   
 
  Olivia F. Kirtley, Director   

J ERRY  W. L EVIN *   
 
  Jerry W. Levin, Director    
         24   

D AVID  B. O M ALEY *   
 
  David B. O Maley, Director   

O D ELL  M. O WENS , M.D., M.P.H.*   
 
  O Dell M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H., Director   

R ICHARD  G. R EITEN *   
 
  Richard G. Reiten, Director   

C RAIG  D. S CHNUCK *   
 
  Craig D. Schnuck, Director   

P ATRICK  T. S TOKES *   
 
  Patrick T. Stokes, Director   

D OREEN  W OO  H O *   
 
  Doreen Woo Ho, Director   

*   
   Lee R. Mitau, by signing his name hereto, does hereby sign this document on behalf of each of the above named directors of the registrant pursuant to powers of
attorney duly executed by such persons.         Dated: February 23, 2012   

By:  
     
  /s/ L EE  R. M ITAU    

Lee R. Mitau   

Attorney-In-Fact     Executive
Vice President,     General Counsel and Corporate Secretary    

25   

<EX-3.1>
 2
 d261300dex31.htm
 RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION, AS AMENDED

Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended 

Exhibit 3.1        RESTATED        CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION    
   OF        U.S.
BANCORP        FIRST : The name of this corporation is U.S. Bancorp.   
   SECOND : The registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware is to be located at 1209 Orange Street in the City of
Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of the registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.   
   THIRD : The purpose of the corporation is to engage in any part of the world in any capacity in any lawful act or activity for
which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of Delaware, and the corporation shall be authorized to exercise and enjoy all powers, rights and privileges which corporations organized under the General Corporation Law of
Delaware may have under the laws of the State of Delaware as in force from time to time, including without limitation all powers, rights and privileges necessary or convenient to carry out all those acts and activities in which it may lawfully
engage.       FOURTH : The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the corporation shall have the authority to
issue is 4,050,000,000, consisting of 50,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the par value of $1.00 each and 4,000,000,000 shares of Common Stock of the par value of $.01 each.   
  The designations and the powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of each class of
stock are as follows:      The Board of Directors is expressly authorized at any time, and from time to time, to provide for the
issuance of shares of preferred stock in one or more series, with such voting powers, full or limited, or without voting powers and with such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and
qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, as shall be stated and expressed in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue thereof adopted by the board of directors, subject to the limitations prescribed by law and in accordance
with the provisions hereof, including (but without limiting the generality thereof) the following:      (a) The designation of the
series and the number of shares to constitute the series.      (b) The dividend rate of the series, the conditions and dates upon
which such dividends shall be payable, the relation which such dividends shall bear to the dividends payable on any other class or classes of stock, and whether such dividends shall be cumulative or noncumulative.   
  (c) Whether the shares of the series shall be subject to redemption by the corporation and, if made subject to such redemption, the
times, prices and other terms and conditions of such redemption.   

(d) The terms and amount of any sinking fund provided for the purchase or redemption of the
shares of the series.      (e) Whether or not the shares of the series shall be convertible into or exchangeable for shares of any
other class or classes or of any other series of any class or classes of stock of the corporation, and, if provision be made for conversion or exchange, the times, prices, rates, adjustments and other terms and conditions of such conversion or
exchange.      (f) The extent, if any, to which the holders of the shares of the series shall be entitled to vote with respect to
the election of directors or otherwise.      (g) The restrictions, if any on the issue or reissue of any additional preferred
stock.      (h) The rights of the holders of the shares of the series upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the
corporation.      Subject to the prior or equal rights, if any, of the preferred stock of any and all series stated and expressed
by the board of directors in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of such preferred stock, the holders of common stock shall be entitled (i) to receive dividends when and as declared by the board of directors out of any
funds legally available therefore, (ii) in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the corporation, to receive the remaining assets of the corporation, ratably according to the number of shares of common stock held, and
(iii) to one vote for each share of common stock held. No holder of common stock shall have any preemptive right to purchase or subscribe for any part of any issue of stock or of securities of the corporation convertible into stock of any class
whatsoever, whether now or hereafter authorized.      Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH, the following
series of Preferred Stock have been designated, each such series consisting of such number of shares, with such voting powers and with such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications,
limitations or restrictions thereof as are stated and expressed in the exhibit with respect to such series attached hereto as specified below and incorporated herein by reference:   

Exhibit A  
      
  Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock  

Exhibit B  
      
  Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock  

Exhibit C  
      
  Series C Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock  

Exhibit D  
      
  Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock  

FIFTH : In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute, the Board of
Directors is expressly authorized:   
         2   

(a) To fix, determine and vary from time to time the amount to be maintained as surplus and
the amount or amounts to be set apart as working capital.      (b) To adopt, amend, alter or repeal by-laws of the corporation,
without any action on the part of the shareholders. The by-laws adopted by the directors may be amended, altered, changed, added to or repealed by the shareholders.      (c) To authorize and cause to be executed mortgages and liens, without limit as to amount, upon the real and personal property of this corporation.   
  (d) To sell, assign, convey or otherwise dispose of a part of the property, assets and effects of this corporation, less than the whole,
or less than substantially the whole thereof, on such terms and conditions as they shall deem advisable, without the assent of the shareholders; and also to sell, assign, transfer, convey and otherwise dispose of the whole or substantially the whole
of the property, assets, effects, franchises and good will of this corporation on such terms and conditions as they shall deem advisable, but only pursuant to the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority in amount of the stock then having
voting power and at the time issued and outstanding, but in any event not less than the amount required by law.      (e) All of
the powers of this corporation, insofar as the same lawfully may be vested by this certificate in the board of directors, are hereby conferred upon the board of directors of this corporation.   
   SIXTH : The affairs of the Corporation shall be conducted by a Board of Directors. Except as otherwise provided by this Article
Sixth, the number of directors, not less than twelve (12) nor more than thirty (30), shall be fixed from time to time by the Bylaws. Commencing with the 2008 annual meeting of the stockholders, directors shall be elected annually for terms of
one year and shall hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting. Directors elected at the 2005 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders; directors elected at the 2006 annual meeting of
stockholders shall hold office until the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders and directors elected at the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders. In all cases, directors shall hold office
until their respective successors are elected by the stockholders and have qualified.      In the event that the holders of any
class or series of stock of the Corporation having a preference as to dividends or upon liquidation of the Corporation shall be entitled, by a separate class vote, to elect directors as may be specified pursuant to Article Fourth, then the
provisions of such class or series of stock with respect to their rights shall apply. The number of directors that may be elected by the holders of any such class or series of stock shall be in addition to the number fixed pursuant to the preceding
paragraph of this Article Sixth. Except as otherwise expressly provided pursuant to Article Fourth, the number of directors that may be so elected by the holders of any such class or series of stock shall be elected for terms expiring at the next
annual meeting of stockholders and vacancies among directors so elected by the separate class vote of any such class or series of stock shall be filled by the remaining directors elected by such class or series, or, if there are no such remaining
directors, by the holders of such class or series in the same manner in which such class or series initially elected a director.   
         3   

If at any meeting for the election of directors, more than one class of stock, voting
separately as classes, shall be entitled to elect one or more directors and there shall be a quorum of only one such class of stock, that class of stock shall be entitled to elect its quota of directors notwithstanding the absence of a quorum of the
other class or classes of stock.      Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the number of
directors, subject to the provision of Article Fourth, shall be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, and such directors so chosen shall hold office until the next
election of directors, and until their successors shall be elected and shall have qualified.       SEVENTH : No action
required to be taken or which may be taken at any annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders may be taken without a meeting, and the power of stockholders to consent in writing, without a meeting, to the taking of any action is specifically
denied.       EIGHTH : No director of the corporation shall be personally liable to the corporation or its stockholders for
monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty by such director as a director; provided, however, that this Article Eighth shall not eliminate or limit the liability of a director to the extent provided by applicable law (i) for any breach of
the director s duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under section 174 of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. No amendment to or repeal of this Article Eighth shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged
liability of any director of the corporation for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such director occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.   
         4   

Exhibit A     
   CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS        OF        SERIES A NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK    
  Section 1.  Designation . The designation of the series of Preferred Stock created by this resolution shall be Series A
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (hereinafter referred to as the   Series A Preferred Stock  ). Each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series A Preferred Stock. Series
A Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.      Section 2.  Number of Shares . The number of authorized shares of Series A
Preferred Stock shall be 20,010. Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock then
outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions
of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series A Preferred Stock.   
  Section 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series A Preferred Stock:   
    Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions in Minneapolis,
Minnesota, New York, New York or Wilmington, Delaware are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.        Depositary Company   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.        Dividend Payment Date   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.        Dividend Period   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.        DTC   means The Depositary Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.        Junior Stock   means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series A Preferred Stock has preference
or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.   
         5   

London Banking Day   means any day on which commercial banks are open for
general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England.        Parity Stock   means
any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par with Series A Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.   
    Preferred Director   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 hereof.   
    Series A Preferred Stock   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.   
    Telerate Page 3750   means the display page so designated on the Moneyline/Telerate Service (or such other page as may
replace that page on that service, or such other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to the London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits).   
    Three-Month LIBOR   means, with respect to any Dividend Period, the rate (expressed as a percentage  per annum )
for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend
Period. If such rate does not appear on Telerate Page 3750, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a
principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time on the second London
Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. U.S. Bank National Association, or such other bank as may be acting as calculation agent for the Corporation, will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a
quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two
quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the
calculation agent, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a
principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if the banks selected by the calculation agent to provide quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as
determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had Series A Preferred Stock been outstanding. The
calculation agent s establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series A Preferred
Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.   
         6   

Section 4.  Dividends .   
  (a)  Rate . Holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of
the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share of Series A Preferred
Stock, and no more, payable on the following dates: (1) if the Series A Preferred Stock is issued prior to April 15, 2011, semi-annually in arrears on each April 15 and October 15 through April 15, 2011, and
(2) from and including the later of April 15, 2011 and the date of issuance, quarterly in arrears on each July 15, October 15, January 15 and April 15;  provided ,  however , if any such day is not a Business
Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a
  Dividend Payment Date  ). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a   Dividend Period . 
Dividends on each share of Series A Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (i) to but not including the Dividend Payment Date in April 2011 at a rate  per annum  equal to 6.189%, and
(ii) thereafter for each related Dividend Period at a rate  per annum  equal to the greater of (x) Three-Month LIBOR plus 1.02% or (y) 3.50%. The record date for payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock shall be the
last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls. The amount of dividends payable for any period prior to the later of the Dividend Payment Day in April 2011 and the date of
original issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months and dividends for periods thereafter shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of
days elapsed.      (b)  Non-Cumulative Dividends . Dividends on shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.
To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall
cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such
Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series A Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized
preferred stock of the Corporation.      (c)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series A Preferred Stock
remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock,
(ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the
exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to
or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall   
         7   

be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to  pro rata  offers to purchase all, or a  pro rata  portion, of the Series
A Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or
declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. The foregoing shall not restrict the ability of the Corporation, or any affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in the Junior Stock or Parity Stock in
the ordinary course of business. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series A Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series A Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a
proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series A Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any
accumulations on Parity Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series A Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. If the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines not to pay any
dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide, or cause to be provided, written notice to the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such
dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to
time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.      Section 5.  Liquidation Rights .      (a)  Liquidation . In the event of any
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets
of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series A Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the
rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share, plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current
Dividend Period to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.      (b)  Partial Payment . If the assets of
the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference to all holders of Series A Preferred Stock and the liquidation preferences of any Parity Stock to all holders of such Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of
Series A Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences of Series A Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.   
  (c)  Residual Distributions . If the liquidation preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series A Preferred Stock and all
holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.   
         8   

(d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this
Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary
dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation
or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   
  Section 6.  Redemption .      (a)  Optional Redemption . So long as full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the
payment thereof set aside, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem in whole or in part the shares of Series A Preferred Stock at the time
outstanding, at any time on or after the later of the Dividend Payment Date in April 2011 and the date of original issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for
shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be $100,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid plus accrued and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the redemption date.   
  (b)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date
fixed for redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series A Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.   Any notice mailed as provided in this
Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares
of Series A Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series A Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of
shares of Series A Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed by such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where
the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.   
  (c)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock at the time outstanding,
the shares of Series A Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  from the holders of record of Series A Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series A Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such
  
         9   

other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the
provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of
Series A Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.      (d)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption
has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all assets necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of
the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors (the   Depositary Company  ) in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has
not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights
with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption
date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no
claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the
Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid
to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.      Section 7.  Voting Rights . The holders of Series
A Preferred Stock will have no voting rights and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law.      Section 8.  Conversion.  The holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series A Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.
     Section 9.  Rank . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of incorporation or this Certificate of
Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue
additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class of securities ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock as to dividends and upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
  
         10   

Section 10.  Repurchase . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation
may purchase and sell Series A Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may
determine;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.   
  Section 11.  Unissued or Reacquired Shares . Shares of Series A Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted,
redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series.   
  Section 12.  No Sinking Fund . Shares of Series A Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.   
         11   

Exhibit B     
   CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION        OF        SERIES B NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK    
  Section 1.  Designation . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred
Stock (hereinafter referred to as the   Series B Preferred Stock  ). Each share of Series B Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series B Preferred Stock. Series B Preferred Stock will rank
equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation.      Section 2.  Number of Shares . The number of authorized shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be 40,000.
Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly
adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the
State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series B Preferred Stock.   
  Section 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series B Preferred Stock:   
    Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not
authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York.        Depositary
Company   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.        Dividend Payment Date  
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.        Dividend Period   shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 4(a) hereof.        DTC   means The Depositary Trust Company, together with its successors
and assigns.        Junior Stock   means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock
of the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series B Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.   
    London Banking Day   means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in
deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England.   
         12   

Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation
that ranks on a par with Series B Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.   
    Preferred Director   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 hereof.   
    Series B Preferred Stock   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.   
    Telerate Page 3750   means the display page so designated on the Moneyline/Telerate Service (or such other page as may
replace that page on that service, or such other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to the London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits).   
    Three-Month LIBOR   means, with respect to any Dividend Period, the offered rate (expressed as a percentage  per
annum ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first
day of that Dividend Period. If such rate does not appear on Telerate Page 3750, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend
Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time on the
second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. U.S. Bank National Association, or such other bank as may be acting as calculation agent for the Corporation, will request the principal London office of each of
such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such
quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York
City selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend
Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Corporation to provide quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as
Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had Series B Preferred Stock
been outstanding. The calculation agent s establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder
of Series B Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.   
         13   

Section 4.  Dividends .   
  (a)  Rate . Holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of
the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series B Preferred
Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15;  provided ,  however , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise
payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a   Dividend Payment Date  ). The
period from and including the date of issuance of the Series B Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a   Dividend Period .  Dividends on each share of Series B Preferred Stock
will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate  per annum  equal to the greater of (i) Three-Month LIBOR plus 0.60%% or (ii) 3.50%. The record date for payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock
shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls. The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days
elapsed.      (b)  Non-Cumulative Dividends . Dividends on shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the
extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series B Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to
accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend
Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series B Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred
stock of the Corporation.      (c)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series B Preferred Stock remains
outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no
shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or
conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made
available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to
 pro rata  offers to purchase all, or a  pro rata  portion, of the Series B Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of
Series B Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series B Preferred Stock and any Parity
Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series B Preferred   
         14   

Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the
then-current Dividend Period per share on Series B Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations on Parity Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series B
Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. If the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide, or cause to be provided, written notice to the
holders of the Series B Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in
any such dividend.      Section 5.  Liquidation Rights .   
  (a)  Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation, holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and
subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series B Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a
liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series B
Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this
Section 5.      (b)  Partial Payment . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the
liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends to all holders of Series B Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series B Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity
Stock shall be  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends of Series B Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.   
  (c)  Residual Distributions . If the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends has been paid in full
to all holders of Series B Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.   
  (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange
or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs
of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any
other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   
         15   

Section 6.  Redemption .   
  (a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation, may redeem in whole or in part the shares of Series B Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after the Dividend Payment Date in April 2011, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b)
below. The redemption price for shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid.      (b)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to
be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series B
Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.   Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series B Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the
validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series B Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all
the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed by such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of
the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.   
  (c)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock at the time outstanding,
the shares of Series B Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  from the holders of record of Series B Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series B Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such
other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors
of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.
     (d)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date
specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be
and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the   Depositary
Company  ) in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of   
         16   

the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all
shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and
terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be
entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of
three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed
to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.   
  Section 7.  Voting Rights . The holders of Series B Preferred Stock will have no voting rights and will not be entitled to elect any
directors, except as expressly provided by law and except that:      (a)  Supermajority Voting Rights Amendments .
Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of all of the shares the Series B Preferred Stock at the time outstanding,
voting separately as a class, shall be required to authorize any amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation or of any certificate amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto (including any certificate of designation or any similar document
relating to any series of preferred stock) which will materially and adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the Series B Preferred Stock, taken as a whole; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of the
authorized or issued Series B Preferred Stock or authorized preferred stock of the Corporation or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series of preferred stock ranking equally with and/or junior to
the Series B Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to
adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the Series B Preferred Stock.      (b)  Supermajority Voting
Rights Priority . Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of all of the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock
and all other Parity Stock, at the time outstanding, voting as a single class without regard to series, shall be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of, or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into
or evidencing the right to purchase, any additional class or series of stock ranking prior to the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock and all other Parity Stock as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the Corporation;   
         17   

(c)  Special Voting Right .   
  (i)  Voting Right . If and whenever dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock or any other class or series of
preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series B Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(c) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an
aggregate amount equal, as to any class or series, to at least six quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of
the Series B Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the
election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill
such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock
Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include
more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series B Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends is a
  Preferred Director  .      (ii)  Election .   The election of the Preferred Directors
will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series B Preferred Stock and any other class or series of our stock that ranks on parity with Series B Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for
which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(c)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series B
Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation s principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such
election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series B Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series B Preferred Stock as
to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(c)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on
any matter.      (iii)  Notice for Special Meeting . Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar
manner to that provided in the Corporation s by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series B
Preferred Stock may (at our expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(c)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special
meeting will hold office   
         18   

until the next annual meeting of our stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(c)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred
Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the
Series B Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the
election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders.      (iv)  Termination; Removal . Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series B Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series B
Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for at least four Dividend Periods, then the right of the holders of Series B Preferred Stock to elect such additional two directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the
vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate and the number of directors constituting our
board of directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series B Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other
class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist)
when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(c).      Section 8.  Conversion.  The holders of Series B
Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series B Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.      Section 9.  Rank . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee
or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or, subject to the voting rights
granted in Section 7(b), any class of securities ranking senior to the Series B Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation.      Section 10.  Repurchase . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell
Series B Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine;  provided ,
 however , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.   
         19   

Section 11.  Unissued or Reacquired Shares . Shares of Series B Preferred Stock not
issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series.   
  Section 12.  No Sinking Fund . Shares of Series B Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.   
         20   

Exhibit C     
   CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION        OF        SERIES C NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK    
  Section 1.  Designation . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be Series C Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred
Stock (hereinafter referred to as the   Series C Preferred Stock  ). Each share of Series C Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series C Preferred Stock. Series C Preferred Stock will rank
equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation.      Section 2.  Number of Shares . The number of authorized shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be five
thousand (5,000). Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series C Preferred Stock then outstanding) by
further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series C Preferred Stock.   
  Section 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series C Preferred Stock:   
    Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized
or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York.        Depositary Company  
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.        Dividend Payment Date   shall have the meaning
set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.        Dividend Period   shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 4(a) hereof.        DTC   means The Depositary Trust Company, together with its successors and
assigns.        Junior Stock   means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of
the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series C Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.   
    London Banking Day   means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in
deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England.   
         21   

Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation
that ranks on a par with Series C Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.   
    Preferred Director   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 hereof.   
    Series C Preferred Stock   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.   
    Telerate Page 3750   means the display page so designated on the Moneyline/Telerate Service (or such other page as may
replace that page on that service, or such other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to the London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits).   
    Three-Month LIBOR   means, with respect to any Dividend Period beginning on or after January 15, 2012 and each
Dividend Period thereafter, the offered rate (expressed as a percentage  per annum ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 a.m.
(London time) on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. If such rate does not appear on Telerate Page 3750, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S.
dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market
selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. U.S. Bank National Association, or such other bank as may be acting as calculation
agent for the Corporation, will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic
mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the
nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European
banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Corporation to provide quotations are not quoting as
described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in
accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had Series C Preferred Stock been outstanding. The calculation agent s establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file
at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series C Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.   
         22   

Section 4.  Dividends .   
  (a)  Rate . Holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of
the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share of Series C Preferred
Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15;  provided ,  however , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on
that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a   Dividend Payment Date  ). The period from and
including the date of issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a   Dividend Period .  Dividends on each share of Series C Preferred Stock will accrue on
the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (i) to but not including the Dividend Payment Date in January 2012 at a rate  per annum  equal to 6.091%, and (ii) thereafter for each related Dividend Period at a rate  per annum 
equal to Three-Month LIBOR plus 1.147%.      (b)  Non-Cumulative Dividends . Dividends on shares of Series C Preferred Stock
shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series C Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall
not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend
Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series C Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or
series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation.      (c)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series C
Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior
Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or
the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid
to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than
pursuant to  pro rata  offers to purchase all, or a  pro rata  portion, of the Series C Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding
shares of Series C Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series C Preferred Stock and
any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series C Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued
dividends for   
         23   

the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series C Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations on Parity Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in
respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series C Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. If the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will
provide, or cause to be provided, written notice to the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board
of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series C
Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.      Section 5.  Liquidation Rights .   
  (a)  Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation, holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and
subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series C Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a
liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share, plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series C
Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this
Section 5.      (b)  Partial Payment . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the
liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends to all holders of Series C Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series C Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity
Stock shall be  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends of Series C Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.   
  (c)  Residual Distributions . If the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends has been paid in full
to all holders of Series C Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.   
  (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange
or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs
of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any
other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   
         24   

Section 6.  Redemption .   
  (a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation, may redeem in whole or in part the shares of Series C Preferred Stock at the time outstanding at any time upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series C Preferred
Stock shall be $100,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid.      (b)  Notice of Redemption .
Notice of every redemption of shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock
register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series C Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the
Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.   Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly
to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series C Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other
shares of Series C Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series C Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number
of such shares to be redeemed by such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares
to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.      (c)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only
part of the shares of Series C Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series C Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  from the holders of record of Series C Preferred Stock in proportion to the number
of Series C Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable.
Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon
which shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.      (d)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If
notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the  pro
rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the   Depositary Company  ) in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so
called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such
redemption date, and all rights with respect to   
         25   

such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust
company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any
shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in
the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the
redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.      Section 7.
 Voting Rights . The holders of Series C Preferred Stock will have no voting rights and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law and except that:   
  (a)  Special Voting Right .      (i)  Voting Right . If and whenever dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of
dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(a) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal, as to any class or series, to at least six quarterly Dividend
Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the
Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have
the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of
such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be
listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of
shares of Series C Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends is a   Preferred Director  .   
  (ii)  Election .   The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of
stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock and any other class or series of our stock that ranks on parity with Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid,
called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(a)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the   
         26   

written request of any holder of Series C Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation s principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before
the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock and any
other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in
Section 7(a)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.      (iii)  Notice for Special Meeting . Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation s by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the
secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series C Preferred Stock may (at our expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this
Section 7(a)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of our stockholders unless they have
been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(a)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written
consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having
equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders.
     (iv)  Termination; Removal . Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series C Preferred
Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for three consecutive Dividend Periods and full dividends have been paid or declared and set aside for
payment for the fourth consecutive Dividend Period, then the right of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock to elect such additional two directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights
in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate and the number of directors constituting our board of directors will be reduced
accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series C Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s
authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting
rights described in this Section 7(a).      Section 8.  Conversion . The holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall not
have any rights to convert such Series C Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.   
         27   

Section 9.  Rank . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of
Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series C
Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or, subject to the voting rights granted in Section 7(a), any class of securities ranking senior to the Series C Preferred Stock as to dividends and the
distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.      Section 10.  Repurchase . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series C Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such
terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such
purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.      Section 11.  Unissued or Reacquired Shares . Shares of Series C Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation
shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series.   
  Section 12.  No Sinking Fund . Shares of Series C Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.   
         28   

Exhibit D     
   CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS        OF        SERIES D NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK    
  Section 1.  Designation . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred
Stock (hereinafter referred to as the   Series D Preferred Stock  ). Each share of Series D Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series D Preferred Stock. Series D Preferred Stock will rank
equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation.      Section 2.  Number of Shares . The number of authorized shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall be 20,000.
Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series D Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly
adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the
State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series D Preferred Stock.   
  Section 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series D Preferred Stock:   
    Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized
or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York.        Depositary Company  
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.        Dividend Payment Date   shall have the meaning
set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.        Dividend Period   shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 4(a) hereof.        DTC   means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and
assigns.        Junior Stock   means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of
the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series D Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.   
         29   

Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation
that ranks on a parity with Series D Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.   
    Preferred Director   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 hereof.   
    Series D Preferred Stock   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.   
  Section 4.  Dividends .      (a)  Rate . Holders of Series D Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series D Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each
January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15;  provided ,  however , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day
that is a Business Day (without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a   Dividend Payment Date  ). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series D
Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a   Dividend Period .  Dividends on each share of Series D Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share
at a rate  per annum  equal to 7.875%. The record date for payment of dividends on the Series D Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls.
The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed.      (b)
 Non-Cumulative Dividends . Dividends on shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series D Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in
full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series D Preferred Stock shall have no
right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect
to Series D Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation.      (c)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series D Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be
declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation,
directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of
the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of
Parity Stock shall   
         30   

be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to  pro rata  offers to purchase all, or a  pro rata  portion, of the Series
D Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or
declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series D Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series D Preferred Stock and any Parity
Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series D Preferred Stock, and accrued
dividends, including any accumulations, on Parity Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series D Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. If the Board of Directors of the Corporation
determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide, or cause to be provided, written notice to the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and
not otherwise, dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior
Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series D Preferred Stock or Parity Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.   
  Section 5.  Liquidation Rights .      (a)  Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series D Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of
assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities
ranking senior to or on parity with Series D Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of
$25,000 per share, plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series D Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of
any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.      (b)  Partial Payment . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends to all holders of Series D
Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series D Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus
any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends of Series D Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.      (c)  Residual
Distributions . If the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends has been paid in full to all holders of Series D Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled
to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.   
         31   

(d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this
Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary
dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation
or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   
  Section 6.  Redemption .      (a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem in whole or in part the
shares of Series D Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after the Dividend Payment Date in April 2013, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series D Preferred
Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid.      (b)  Notice of Redemption . Notice
of every redemption of shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of
the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series D Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give
such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.   Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice
by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series D Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series D
Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series D Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to
be redeemed by such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed
will cease to accrue on the redemption date.      (c)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the
shares of Series D Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series D Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  from the holders of record of Series D Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series D
Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the
provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of
Series D Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.   
         32   

(d)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if
on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares
called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors
(the   Depositary Company  ) in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for
cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares
shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so
deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such
interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of
record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall
in no event be entitled to any interest.      Section 7.  Voting Rights . The holders of Series D Preferred Stock will have
no voting rights and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law and except that:      (a)
 Supermajority Voting Rights Amendments . Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of all of the shares the
Series D Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting separately as a class, shall be required to authorize any amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation or of any certificate amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto (including any
certificate of designations or any similar document relating to any series of preferred stock) which will materially and adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the Series D Preferred Stock, taken as a whole; provided,
however, that any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series D Preferred Stock or authorized preferred stock of the Corporation or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series of
preferred stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series D Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the Series D Preferred Stock.      (b)  Supermajority Voting Rights Priority . Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders
of at least 66-2/3% of all of the shares of the Series D Preferred Stock and all other Parity Stock, at the time outstanding, voting as a single class without regard to series,   
         33   

shall be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of, or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing the right to purchase, any
additional class or series of stock ranking prior to the shares of the Series D Preferred Stock and all other Parity Stock as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;   
  (c)  Special Voting Right .      (i)  Voting Right . If and whenever dividends on the Series D Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series D Preferred Stock as to payment of
dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(c) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal, as to any class or series, to at least six quarterly Dividend
Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the
Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have
the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of
such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be
listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of
shares of Series D Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series D Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends is a   Preferred Director  .   
  (ii)  Election .   The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of
stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series D Preferred Stock and any other class or series of the Corporation s stock that ranks on parity with Series D Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have
not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(c)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series D Preferred Stock
(addressed to the secretary at the Corporation s principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be
held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series D Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series D Preferred Stock as to payment of
dividends and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(c)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.
  
         34   

(iii)  Notice for Special Meeting . Notice for a special meeting will
be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation s by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any
holder of Series D Preferred Stock may (at the Corporation s expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(c)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred
Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of the Corporation s stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(c)(iv). In case any vacancy in the
office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of
the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled
to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders.      (iv)  Termination; Removal . Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series D Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series D
Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for at least four consecutive Dividend Periods, then the right of the holders of Series D Preferred Stock to elect such additional two directors will cease (but subject always to the same
provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate and the number of directors
constituting the Corporation s board of directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock
(together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such
default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(c).      Section 8.
 Conversion . The holders of Series D Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series D Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.   
  Section 9.  Rank . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the
contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares
of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or, subject to the voting rights granted in Section 7(b), any class of securities ranking senior to the Series D Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   
         35   

Section 10.  Repurchase . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation
may purchase and sell Series D Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may
determine;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.   
  Section 11.  Unissued or Reacquired Shares . Shares of Series D Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted,
redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series.   
  Section 12.  No Sinking Fund . Shares of Series D Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.   
         36   

AMENDED CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS    
   OF    
   SERIES A NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK        OF        U.S. BANCORP    
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the      General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware      U.S. Bancorp, a corporation
organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the   Corporation  ), does hereby certify that:      1. The Risk Management Committee (the   Committee  ) of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the   Board  ), pursuant to authority conferred upon the Committee by the
Board, and by Section 141(c)(2) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, duly adopted the following resolutions at a meeting duly convened and held on April 19, 2010 to amend in its entirety the designations of the series
of preferred stock of the Corporation previously designated as Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock:        RESOLVED , that pursuant to Section 151(g) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the designations of the series of preferred stock of the Corporation previously designated  Series
A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock  shall be amended in its entirety so that the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions on the shares of
such series are substantially in the form as set forth on  Exhibit A  attached hereto, with such changes as the Authorized Officers (as defined below) or the Subcommittee may approve, which is incorporated herein by reference;    
  2. No shares of Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of the Corporation have, as of the date of this Amended
Certificate of Designations, been issued.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amended Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf
of the Corporation by its Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer this 9th day of June, 2010.        

U.S. BANCORP   

By:  
     
  /s/    Andrew Cecere   

Andrew Cecere   

Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer   

EXHIBIT A        TO        AMENDED    
   CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS        OF        SERIES A NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK    
   Section 1. Designation . The designation of the series of Preferred Stock shall be Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred
Stock (hereinafter referred to as the   Series A Preferred Stock  ). Each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series A Preferred Stock. Series A Preferred Stock will rank
equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation.       Section 2. Number of Shares . The number of authorized shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be
20,010. Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further
resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series A Preferred Stock.   
   Section 3. Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series A Preferred Stock:   
    Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions in Minneapolis,
Minnesota, New York, New York or Wilmington, Delaware are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.        Depositary Company   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.        Dividend Payment Date   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.        Dividend Period   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.        DTC   means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.        Junior Stock   means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series A Preferred Stock has preference
or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.        London Banking Day   means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England.   
         A-1

Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation
that ranks on a par with Series A Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.   
    Preferred Director   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 hereof.   
    Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page   means the display designated on the Reuters 3000 Xtra (or such other page as may
replace that page on that service or such other service as may be nominated by the British Bankers  Association for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. dollar deposits).   
    Series A Preferred Stock   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.   
   Stock Purchase Date   means the first to occur of any January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15,
or if any such day is not a Business Day, the next Business Day, after the Remarketing Settlement Date or the Remarketing Date of a Failed Remarketing, as such terms are defined in that certain Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of
March 17, 2006, between the Corporation and Wilmington Trust Company, as successor indenture trustee, amending and supplementing that certain Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of August 28, 2005, between the Company and Delaware Trust
Company, National Association, as thereby amended from time to time.        Three-Month LIBOR   means, with respect
to any Dividend Period, the rate (expressed as a percentage  per annum ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period, as that rate appears on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page as of 11:00
a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. If such rate does not appear on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in
U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank
market selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time on the second London Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. U.S. Bank National Association, or such other bank as may be acting as calculation agent
for the Corporation, will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean
(rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest
..00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the calculation agent, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks
for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if the banks selected by the calculation agent to provide quotations are not quoting as described above,
Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the
first sentence of this paragraph had Series   
         A-2

A Preferred Stock been outstanding. The calculation agent s establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file at the
principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series A Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.   
   Section 4. Dividends .       (a) Rate . Holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation , but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share of Series A Preferred Stock, and no more, payable on the following dates: (1) if
the Series A Preferred Stock is issued prior to April 15, 2011, semi-annually in arrears on each April 15 and October 15 through April 15, 2011, and (2) from and including the later of April 15, 2011 and the Stock
Purchase Date, quarterly in arrears on each July 15, October 15, January 15 and April 15;  provided ,  however , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that
date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a   Dividend Payment Date  ). The period from and
including the date of issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a   Dividend Period .  Dividends on each share of Series A Preferred Stock will accrue on
the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (i) from the date of issuance to but not including the later of the Dividend Payment Date in April 2011 and the Stock Purchase Date at a rate  per annum  equal to 7.189%, and
(ii) thereafter for each related Dividend Period at a rate  per annum  equal to the greater of (x) Three-Month LIBOR plus 1.02% or (y) 3.50%. The record date for payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock shall be the
last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls. The amount of dividends payable for any period prior to the later of the Dividend Payment Day in April 2011 and the date of
original issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months and dividends for periods thereafter shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days
elapsed.       (b) Non-Cumulative Dividends . Dividends on shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the
extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to
accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend
Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series A Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred
stock of the Corporation.       (c) Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series A Preferred Stock remains
outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a   
         A-3

dividend payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly
(other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a
substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be
repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to  pro rata  offers to purchase all, or a  pro rata  portion, of the Series A Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by
conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment
thereof set aside. The foregoing shall not restrict the ability of the Corporation, or any affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in the Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of business. When
dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series A Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series A Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of
dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series A Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations on Parity Stock, bear to each
other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series A Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. If the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend
Payment Date, the Corporation will provide, or cause to be provided, written notice to the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise)
as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available
therefor, and the shares of Series A Preferred Stock or Parity Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.   
   Section 5. Liquidation Rights .       (a) Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of
assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities
ranking senior to or on parity with Series A Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of
$100,000 per share, plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.   
         A-4

(b) Partial Payment . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in
full the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends to all holders of Series A Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series A Preferred Stock and to the holders of all
Parity Stock shall be  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends of Series A Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.   
   (c) Residual Distributions . If the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends has been paid in full
to all holders of Series A Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.   
   (d) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange
or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs
of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any
other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.       Section 6. Redemption .       (a) Optional Redemption . So long as
full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or
any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem in whole or in part the shares of Series A Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after the later of the Dividend Payment Date in April 2011
and the date of original issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be $100,000 per share plus dividends that have been
declared but not paid plus accrued and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the redemption date.       (b)
Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses
appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series A Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form
through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but
failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series A Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of
any other shares of Series A Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed,
the number of such shares to be redeemed by such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on
the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.   
         A-5

(c) Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of
Series A Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series A Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  from the holders of record of Series A Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series A Preferred
Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions
of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series A
Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.       (d) Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been
duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all assets necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the
holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of
the Board of Directors (the   Depositary Company  ) in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not
been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with
respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date
from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim
to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the
holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the
Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.       Section 7. Voting Rights . The holders of Series A
Preferred Stock will have no voting rights and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law and except that:       (a) Supermajority Voting Rights Amendments . Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the
holders of at least 66-2/3% of all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting separately as a class, shall be required to authorize any   
         A-6

amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation or of any certificate amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto (including any certificate of designations or any similar document relating to any
series of preferred stock) which will materially and adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the Series A Preferred Stock, taken as a whole; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued
Series A Preferred Stock or authorized preferred stock of the Corporation or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series of preferred stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series A
Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely
affect the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the Series A Preferred Stock.       (b) Supermajority Voting
Rights Priority . Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock
and all other Parity Stock, at the time outstanding, voting as a single class without regard to series, shall be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of, or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into
or evidencing the right to purchase, any additional class or series of stock ranking prior to the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock and all other Parity Stock as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the Corporation.       (c) Special Voting Right .   
   (i) Voting Right . If and whenever dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that
ranks on parity with the Series A Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(c) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount
equal, as to any class or series, to at least six quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series A
Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of
directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly
created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or
other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two
such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series A Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends is a
  Preferred Director  .   
         A-7

(ii) Election . The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual
meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock and any other class or series of the Corporation s stock that ranks on parity with Series A Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which
dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(c)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series A
Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation s principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such
election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series A Preferred Stock as
to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(c)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on
any matter.       (iii) Notice for Special Meeting . Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that
provided in the Corporation s by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series A Preferred Stock
may (at the Corporation s expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(c)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special
meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of the Corporation s stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(c)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs
(other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series A Preferred
Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors
if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders.       (iv) Termination;
Removal . Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series A Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series A Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for at least four
consecutive Dividend Periods, then the right of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock to elect such additional two directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any
similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate and the number of directors constituting the Corporation s board of directors will be reduced
accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized
preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described
in this Section 7(c).       Section 8. Conversion.  The holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall not have any
rights to convert such Series A Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.   
         A-8

Section 9. Rank . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of
Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series A
Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or, subject to the voting rights granted in Section 7(b), any class of securities ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock as to dividends and upon
any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.       Section 10.
Repurchase . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series A Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the
Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.       Section 11. Unissued or Reacquired Shares .
Shares of Series A Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without
designation as to series.       Section 12. No Sinking Fund . Shares of Series A Preferred Stock are not subject to the
operation of a sinking fund.      * * * **   
         A-9

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS    
   OF    
   SERIES F NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK        OF        U.S. BANCORP    
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the      General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware      U.S. Bancorp, a corporation
organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the   Corporation  ), does hereby certify that:      1. On July 18, 2011, the Risk Management Committee (the   Committee  ) of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the   Board  ), pursuant to authority conferred upon
the Committee the Board and by Section 141(c)(2) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, duly adopted resolutions establishing the terms of the Corporation s Series F Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, $25,000
liquidation preference per share (the   Series F Preferred Stock  ), and authorized a sub-committee of the Committee (the   Subcommittee  ) to act on behalf of the Committee in establishing the dividend rate, optional
redemption date, number of authorized shares and certain other terms of the Series F Preferred Stock.      2.
Thereafter, on January 18, 2012, the Subcommittee duly adopted the following resolution by written consent:        RESOLVED,  that the designations, and certain other preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of
the Series F Preferred Stock, including those established by the Committee, and the additional terms established hereby, are as set forth in  Exhibit A  hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference.    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Corporation by its Vice Chairman and Chief Financial
Officer this 19th day of January, 2012.        

U.S. BANCORP   

By:  
     
  /s/    Andrew Cecere            

Andrew Cecere     Vice Chairman
and Chief Financial Officer    

EXHIBIT A        TO        CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS    
   OF    
   SERIES F NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK        OF        U.S. BANCORP    
  Section 1.  Designation . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be Series F Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred
Stock (hereinafter referred to as the   Series F Preferred Stock  ). Each share of Series F Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series F Preferred Stock. Series F Preferred Stock will rank
equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation.      Section 2.  Number of Shares . The number of authorized shares of Series F Preferred Stock shall be 44,000.
Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series F Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly
adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the
State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series F Preferred Stock.   
  Section 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series F Preferred Stock:   
    Appropriate Federal Banking Agency   means the  appropriate Federal banking agency  with respect to the
Corporation as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)), or any successor provision.        Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in
New York, New York.        Committee   means the Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation, or any successor committee thereto.        Corporation   means U.S. Bancorp.   
    Depositary Company   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.   

Dividend Payment Date   shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 4(a) hereof.        Dividend Period   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
       DTC   means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.   
    Junior Stock   means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation
hereafter authorized over which Series F Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.   
    London Banking Day   means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in
deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England.        Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the
Corporation that ranks on a parity with Series F Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.   
    Preferred Director   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(c)(i) hereof.   
    Redemption Price   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(a) hereof.   
    Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as a result of
(i) any amendment to, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any share of Series F Preferred Stock,
(ii) any proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced after the initial issuance of any share of Series F Preferred Stock, or (iii) any official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or
other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced after the initial issuance of any share of Series F Preferred Stock, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled
to treat the full liquidation value of the shares of Series F Preferred Stock then outstanding as  tier 1 capital  (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
Regulation Y, 12 CFR 225 (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor Appropriate Federal Banking Agency), as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series F Preferred Stock is
outstanding.        Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page   means the display designated on the Reuters 3000 Xtra (or such
other page as may replace that page on that service or such other service as may be nominated by the British Bankers  Association for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. dollar deposits).   
    Series F Preferred Stock   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.   
    Three-Month LIBOR   means, with respect to any Dividend Period beginning on or after January 15, 2022, the rate
(expressed as a percentage  per annum ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period, as that rate appears on Reuters   
         A-2

Screen LIBOR01 Page as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. If such rate does not appear on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page,
Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime
banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time), on the second London Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. U.S.
Bank National Association, or such other bank as may be acting as calculation agent for the Corporation, will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided,
Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that
Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the calculation agent, at approximately 11:00 a.m. (New York City time), on
the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if the banks
selected by the calculation agent to provide quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first
Dividend Period beginning on or after January 15, 2022, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had the dividend rate been a floating rate during the period prior to
January 15, 2022. The calculation agent s establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any
holder of Series F Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.      Section 4.
 Dividends .      (a)  Rate . Holders of Series F Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared
by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per
share of Series F Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each January 15, April 15, July 15 or October 15;  provided ,  however , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of
any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a   Dividend Payment
Date  ). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series F Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a   Dividend Period .  Dividends on each share of
Series F Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (i) from the date of issuance to but not including the Dividend Payment Date on January 15, 2022 at a rate  per annum  equal to 6.50%, and
(ii) thereafter for each related Dividend Period at a rate  per annum  equal to Three-Month LIBOR plus 4.468%. The record date for payment of dividends on the Series F Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month
immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls. The amount of dividends payable for any period prior to January 15, 2022 shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months and
dividends for periods thereafter shall be computed   
         A-3

on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, dividends on the Series F Preferred Stock shall not be declared, paid or set
aside for payment to the extent such act would cause the Corporation to fail to comply with laws and regulations applicable thereto, including applicable capital adequacy guidelines.   
  (b)  Non-Cumulative Dividends . Dividends on shares of Series F Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any
dividends payable on the shares of Series F Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be
payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series F Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest
with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series F Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the
Corporation.      (c)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series F Preferred Stock remains outstanding,
(i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior
Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one
share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking
fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to  pro rata  offers to
purchase all, or a  pro rata  portion, of the Series F Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series F Preferred Stock for
the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series F Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared
upon shares of Series F Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend
Period per share on Series F Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations, on Parity Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series F Preferred Stock that may be
in arrears. If the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide, or cause to be provided, written notice to the holders of the Series F Preferred
Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of
the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series F Preferred Stock or Parity Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.
  
         A-4

Section 5.  Liquidation Rights .   
  (a)  Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation, holders of Series F Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and
subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series F Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a
liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series F
Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this
Section 5.      (b)  Partial Payment . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the
liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends to all holders of Series F Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series F Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity
Stock shall be  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends of Series F Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.   
  (c)  Residual Distributions . If the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends has been paid in full
to all holders of Series F Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.   
  (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange
or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs
of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any
other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.      Section 6.  Redemption .      (a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation, at
the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem in whole or in part the shares of Series F Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after the Dividend
Payment Date in January, 2022, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series F Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid (the
  Redemption Price  ). Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days following the occurrence of a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency,
may redeem, at any time, all (but not less than all) of the shares of Series F Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided Subsection (b) below, at the Redemption Price applicable on such date of redemption.
  
         A-5

(b)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series F Preferred
Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30
days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series F Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. 
 Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the
mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series F Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series F Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the
redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series F Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed by such holder; (iii) the Redemption
Price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.   
  (c)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series F Preferred Stock at the time outstanding,
the shares of Series F Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  from the holders of record of Series F Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series F Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such
other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors
of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series F Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.
     (d)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date
specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be
and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the   Depositary
Company  ) in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after
the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such
redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest.
The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for   
         A-6

redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or
repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount
deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.      Section 7.  Voting Rights . The holders of Series F Preferred Stock will have no voting rights and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law and except that:
     (a)  Supermajority Voting Rights Amendments . Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of
shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of all of the shares of the Series F Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting separately as a class, shall be required to authorize any
amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation or of any certificate amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto (including any certificate of designations or any similar document relating to any series of preferred stock) which will materially and
adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the Series F Preferred Stock, taken as a whole; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series F Preferred Stock or authorized preferred stock
of the Corporation or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series of preferred stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series F Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends
(whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the
Series F Preferred Stock.      (b)  Supermajority Voting Rights Priority . Unless the vote or consent of the holders of
a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of all of the shares of the Series F Preferred Stock and all other Parity Stock, at the time outstanding, voting as a single
class without regard to series, shall be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of, or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing the right to purchase, any additional class or series of
stock ranking prior to the shares of the Series F Preferred Stock and all other Parity Stock as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;   
  (c)  Special Voting Right .      (i)  Voting Right . If and whenever dividends on the Series F Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series F Preferred Stock as to payment of
dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(c) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal, as to any class or series, to at least six quarterly Dividend
Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series F Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the
Corporation s authorized preferred stock having   
         A-7

equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have
the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of
such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be
listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of
shares of Series F Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series F Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends is a   Preferred Director  .   
  (ii)  Election .   The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special
meeting of the holders of Series F Preferred Stock and any other class or series of the Corporation s stock that ranks on parity with Series F Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid, called as
provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(c)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series F Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary
at the Corporation s principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or
special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series F Preferred Stock, and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series F Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which
dividends have not been paid, for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(c)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.   
  (iii)  Notice for Special Meeting . Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the
Corporation s by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series F Preferred Stock may (at the
Corporation s expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(c)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will
hold office until the next annual meeting of the Corporation s stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(c)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than
prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series F Preferred Stock
(together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights ,  whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such
default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders.      (iv)  Termination;
Removal . Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series F Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series F Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for at least four
consecutive Dividend Periods, then the right of the holders of Series F Preferred Stock to elect   
         A-8

such additional two directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of
future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate and the number of directors constituting the Corporation s board of directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed
at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series F Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting
rights ,  whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(c).   
  Section 8.  Conversion . The holders of Series F Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series F Preferred Stock
into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.      Section 9.  Rank . Notwithstanding anything set
forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the
holders of the Series F Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or, subject to the voting rights granted in Section 7(b), any class of securities ranking senior to the Series F Preferred Stock as
to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.      Section 10.  Repurchase . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series F Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such
terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such
purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.      Section 11.  Unissued or Reacquired Shares . Shares of Series F Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation
shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series.   
  Section 12.  No Sinking Fund . Shares of Series F Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.   
         A-9

</EX-3.1>

<EX-10.9(B)>
 3
 d261300dex109b.htm
 AMENDMENT OF U.S. BANCORP EXECUTIVE EMPLOYEES DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.

Amendment of U.S. Bancorp Executive Employees Deferred Compensation Plan. 

Exhibit 10.9b        2011 AMENDMENT        OF    
   U.S. BANCORP    
   EXECUTIVE EMPLOYEES DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN        (pre-2005 deferrals)       The U.S. Bancorp Executive Employees Deferred
Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) (for pre-2005 deferrals) is amended in the following respects:       1. INVESTMENT COMMITTEE. Effective
September 23, 2011, the Plan is amended by adding the following definition to Section 1.1 and renumbering Section 1.1 and cross-references accordingly:    

(19)  
  The term   Investment Committee   shall mean the Investment Committee for the benefit plans of the Company (or its successor committee).
        2. MEASUREMENT FUNDS. Effective September 23, 2011, the Plan is amended by deleting Appendix B (and any
cross-references) and by revising Section 4.2(c) to read in full as follows:        

(c)  
   Measurement Funds.  A Participant must elect at least one of the Plan s Measurement Funds for the purpose of determining the manner in which such
Participant s Deferred Compensation Account Balance is to be adjusted. The Measurement Funds shall be prescribed from time to time by the Investment Committee (or its designee) in its sole discretion. The Measurement Funds may, but are not
required to, include a Company stock fund, which will be invested in Shares, mutual funds and a money market fund. The Investment Committee (or its designee) shall determine rules and procedures for the election of Measurement Funds by Participants
and for implementing changes in Measurement Funds. The Investment Committee (or its designee) shall duly consider, but is not required to approve, the Participant s requested election of the Measurement Fund or Funds. Changes in Measurement
Funds shall be effective on the date specified by the Investment Committee (or its designee).         3. SAVINGS CLAUSE. Save and
except as expressly amended above, the Plan shall continue in full force and effect.    

</EX-10.9(B)>

<EX-10.10(D)>
 4
 d261300dex1010d.htm
 THIRD AMENDMENT OF U.S. BANCORP, EXECUTIVE EMPLOYEES DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.

Third Amendment of U.S. Bancorp, Executive Employees Deferred Compensation Plan. 

Exhibit 10.10d        THIRD AMENDMENT        OF    
   U.S. BANK    
   2005 EXECUTIVE EMPLOYEES DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN       The 2005 U.S. Bank Executive Employees Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) is amended in the following respects:       1. INVESTMENT COMMITTEE. Effective September 23, 2011, the Plan is amended by adding the following definition to Section 1.1 and renumbering Section 1.1 and cross-references accordingly:

(22)  
  The term   Investment Committee   shall mean the Investment Committee for the employee benefit plans of the Company (or its successor committee).
        2. MEASUREMENT FUNDS. Effective September 23, 2011, the Plan is amended by deleting Appendix B (and any
cross-references) and by revising Section 4.2(c) to read in full as follows:        

(c)  
   Measurement Funds . A Participant must elect at least one of the Plan s Measurement Funds for the purpose of determining the manner in which such
Participant s Deferred Compensation Account Balance is to be adjusted. The Investment Committee (or its designee) shall duly consider, but is not required to approve, the Participant s requested election of the Measurement Fund or Funds.
The Measurement Funds shall be prescribed from time to time by the Investment Committee (or its designee) in its sole discretion. The Measurement Funds may, but are not required to, include a Company stock fund, which will be invested in Shares,
mutual funds and a money market fund. The Investment Committee (or its designee) shall determine in its sole discretion rules and procedures for the election of Measurement Funds by Participants and for implementing changes in Measurement Funds.
Subject to any transition rules determined by the Committee (or its designee) in its sole discretion, changes in Measurement Funds shall be effective on the date specified by the Investment Committee (or its designee).     
   3. SAVINGS CLAUSE. Save and except as expressly amended above, the Plan shall continue in full force and effect.    

</EX-10.10(D)>

<EX-10.11(B)>
 5
 d261300dex1011b.htm
 AMENDMENT OF U.S. BANCORP OUTSIDE DIRECTORS DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.

Amendment of U.S. Bancorp Outside Directors Deferred Compensation Plan. 

Exhibit 10.11b        2011 AMENDMENT        OF    
   U.S. BANCORP    
   OUTSIDE DIRECTORS DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN        (pre-2005 deferrals)       The U.S. Bancorp Outside Directors Deferral
Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) for pre-2005 deferrals is amended in the following respects:       1. INVESTMENT COMMITTEE. Effective
September 23, 2011, the Plan is amended by adding the following definition to Section 1.1 and renumbering Section 1.1 and cross-references accordingly:    

(18)  
  The term   Investment Committee   shall mean the Investment Committee for the benefit plans of the Company (or its successor committee).
        2. MEASUREMENT FUNDS. Effective September 23, 2011, the Plan is amended by deleting Appendix B (and any
cross-references) and by revising Section 4.2(c) to read in full as follows:        

(c)  
   Measurement Funds . A Participant must elect at least one of the Plan s Measurement Funds for the purpose of determining the manner in which such
Participant s Deferred Compensation Account Balance is to be adjusted. The Measurement Funds shall be prescribed from time to time by the Investment Committee (or its designee) in its sole discretion. The Measurement Funds may, but are not
required to, include a Company stock fund, which will be invested in Shares, mutual funds and a money market fund. The Investment Committee (or its designee) shall determine rules and procedures for the election of Measurement Funds by Participants
and for implementing changes in Measurement Funds. The Investment Committee (or its designee) shall duly consider, but is not required to approve, the Participant s requested election of the Measurement Fund or Funds. Changes in Measurement
Funds shall be effective on the date specified by the Investment Committee (or its designee).         3. SAVINGS CLAUSE. Save and
except as expressly amended above, the Plan shall continue in full force and effect.    

</EX-10.11(B)>

<EX-10.12(C)>
 6
 d261300dex1012c.htm
 SECOND AMENDMENT OF U.S. BANCORP, OUTSIDE DIRECTORS DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.

Second Amendment of U.S. Bancorp, Outside Directors Deferred Compensation Plan. 

Exhibit 10.12c        SECOND AMENDMENT        OF    
   U.S. BANK    
   2005 OUTSIDE DIRECTORS DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN       The 2005 U.S. Bank Outside Directors Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) is amended in the following respects:       1. INVESTMENT COMMITTEE. Effective September 23, 2011, the Plan is amended by adding the following definition to Section 1.1 and renumbering Section 1.1 and cross-references accordingly:

(21)  
  The term   Investment Committee   shall mean the Investment Committee for the benefit plans of the Company (or its successor committee).
        2. MEASUREMENT FUNDS. Effective September 23, 2011, the Plan is amended by deleting Appendix B (and any
cross-references) and by revising Section 4.2(c) to read in full as follows:        

(c)  
   Measurement Funds .   A Participant must elect at least one of the Plan s Measurement Funds for the purpose of determining the manner in which such
Participant s Deferred Compensation Account Balance is to be adjusted. The Measurement Funds shall be prescribed from time to time by the Investment Committee (or its designee) in its sole discretion. The Measurement Funds may, but are not
required to, include a Company stock fund, which will be invested in Shares, mutual funds and a money market fund. The Investment Committee (or its designee) shall determine rules and procedures for the election of Measurment Funds by Participants
and for implementing changes in Measurement Funds. The Investment Committee (or its designee) shall duly consider, but is not required to approve, the Participant s requested election of the Measurement Fund or Funds. Subject to any transition
rules determined by the Committee (or its designee) in its sole discretion, changes in Measurement Funds shall be effective on the date specified by the Investment Committee (or its designee).     
   3. SAVINGS CLAUSE. Save and except as expressly amended above, the Plan shall continue in full force and effect.    

</EX-10.12(C)>

<EX-12>
 7
 d261300dex12.htm
 STATEMENT RE:COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Statement re:Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

EXHIBIT 12        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges        

*  
  Excludes interest expense related to unrecognized tax positions     

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 8
 d261300dex13.htm
 2011 ANNUAL REPORT

2011 Annual Report 

Exhibit 13    
         Management s Discussion and Analysis    
          Overview        U.S. Bancorp and its subsidiaries (the  Company ) achieved record earnings in 2011, demonstrating the advantage of its diversified business model, and ability to implement its strategy. The
Company achieved these results despite the challenges of continued economic weakness and increasing regulatory costs, by continuing to focus on execution, prudently managing its businesses and investing in its franchise. The Company s 2011
financial results were driven by record total net revenue, lower credit costs due to a continued stabilizing economy, and ongoing dedication to operational efficiency. Total net revenue reflected growth in both the balance sheet and fee-based
businesses. The Company grew both loans and deposits substantially in 2011, benefiting from investments it made in its business lines and the overall  flight-to-quality  by customers.   
  The Company earned $4.9 billion in 2011, an increase of 46.9 percent over 2010. Growth in total net revenue of $960 million
(5.3 percent) was attributable to an increase in net interest income, the result of higher earning assets and continued growth in lower cost core deposit funding, and higher noninterest income. Noninterest income grew year-over-year as
increases in payments-related revenue and other fee-based businesses were partially offset by expected decreases in revenue from recent legislative actions. The Company s total net charge-offs and nonperforming assets decreased throughout the
year. The Company also continued to focus on effectively managing costs while making investments to increase revenue and enhance customer service, with an industry-leading efficiency ratio (the ratio of noninterest expense to taxable-equivalent net
revenue, excluding net securities gains and losses) in 2011 of 51.8 percent.      The Company s capital position remained
strong and grew during 2011, with a Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets ratio (using Basel I definition) of 8.6 percent and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 10.8 percent at December 31, 2011. Importantly, using anticipated
Basel III calculations, the Company s Tier 1 common equity ratio was 8.2 percent at December 31, 2011   well above the proposed minimum of 7 percent required in 2019 when these calculations are proposed to be fully implemented. In
addition, at December 31, 2011, the Company s total risk-based capital ratio was 13.3 percent, and its tangible common equity to risk-weighted assets ratio was 8.1 percent (refer to  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  for
further information on the calculation of the Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets and tangible common equity to risk-weighted assets ratios). Given the strength of its capital position and on-going ability to generate significant
capital through earnings, the Company was able to return 31 percent of its earnings to common shareholders in the form of dividends and common share repurchases during 2011. Credit rating organizations rate the Company s debt among the highest
of its large domestic banking peers. This comparative financial strength provides the Company with favorable funding costs, strong liquidity and the ability to attract new customers, leading to growth in loans and deposits.   
  In 2011, the Company s loans and deposits grew significantly. Average loans and deposits increased $8.4 billion
(4.4 percent) and $28.4 billion (15.4 percent), respectively, over 2010. Loan growth reflected increases in residential mortgages, commercial loans, commercial real estate loans and other retail loans, partially offset by
decreases in loans covered by loss sharing agreements with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) ( covered  loans) and credit card loans. Deposit growth reflected the Company s continued benefit from customer
 flight-to-quality .      The Company s provision for credit losses decreased $2.0 billion
(46.2 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010. Net charge-offs decreased $1.3 billion (32.0 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010, due to improvement in all major loan portfolio classes. The provision for credit losses was $500 million less
than net charge-offs in 2011, while exceeding net charge-offs by $175 million in 2010, reflecting improvement in credit trends and the risk profile of the Company s loan portfolio throughout 2011.   

TABLE 1  
          
    Selected Financial Data           

(a)   
   Presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent.      

(b)   
   Computed as noninterest expense divided by the sum of net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis and noninterest income excluding net securities gains (losses).

(c)   
   Excludes unrealized gains and losses.      

(d)   
   See Non-GAAP Financial Measures beginning on page 62.      

Earnings Summary    The Company reported net income attributable to U.S. Bancorp of $4.9 billion in 2011, or $2.46 per diluted common share, compared with $3.3 billion, or $1.73 per diluted common share, in 2010.
Return on average assets and return on average common equity were 1.53 percent and 15.8 percent, respectively, in 2011, compared with 1.16 percent and 12.7 percent, respectively, in 2010. The Company s results for 2011 included a
$263 million gain from the settlement of litigation related to the termination of a merchant processing referral agreement ( merchant settlement gain ), a $46 million gain related to the acquisition of First Community Bank of New Mexico
( FCB ), and a $130 million expense accrual related to mortgage servicing matters. The results for 2011 also included net securities losses of $31 million and a provision for credit losses that was lower than net charge-offs by $500
million. Diluted earnings per common share for 2010 included a non-recurring $.05 benefit related to an exchange of perpetual preferred stock for outstanding income trust securities. The results for 2010 also included a $103 million gain
($41 million after tax) resulting from the exchange of the Company s proprietary long-term mutual fund business for an equity interest in Nuveen Investments and cash consideration ( Nuveen gain ), net securities losses of
$78 million and $175 million of provision for credit losses in excess of net charge-offs.      Total net revenue, on a
taxable-equivalent basis, for 2011 was $960 million (5.3 percent) higher than 2010, reflecting a 5.7 percent increase in net interest income and a 4.8 percent increase in total noninterest income. Net interest income increased in
2011 as a result of an increase in average earning assets and continued growth in lower cost core deposit funding. Noninterest income increased primarily due to the merchant settlement gain, the gain recognized on the FCB acquisition, higher
payments-related revenue, higher commercial products revenue and a decrease in net securities losses, partially offset by lower deposit service charges, trust and investment management fees and mortgage banking revenue.   
  Total noninterest expense in 2011 increased $528 million (5.6 percent), compared with 2010, primarily due to higher total
compensation and employee benefits expense, including higher pension costs, higher professional services expense and other business initiatives.   
     Acquisitions    In January 2011, the Company
acquired the banking operations of FCB from the FDIC. The FCB transaction did not include a loss sharing agreement. The Company acquired 38 branch locations and approximately $1.8 billion in assets, assumed approximately $2.1 billion in
liabilities, and received approximately $412 million in cash from the FDIC. The Company recognized a $46 million gain on this transaction during the first quarter of 2011.      In December 2010, the Company acquired the securitization trust administration business of Bank of America, N.A. ( securitization trust administration acquisition ). This transaction included
the acquisition of $1.1 trillion of assets under administration and provided the Company with approximately $8 billion of deposits at the time of closing.        Statement of Income Analysis           Net Interest
Income    Net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, was $10.3 billion in 2011, compared with $9.8 billion in 2010 and $8.7 billion in 2009. The $560 million
(5.7 percent) increase in net interest income in 2011, compared with 2010, was primarily the result of growth in average earning assets and lower cost core deposit funding. Average earning assets were $31.2 billion (12.4 percent)
higher in 2011 than in 2010, driven by increases in investment securities, loans and cash balances at the Federal Reserve reflected in other earning assets. Average deposits increased $28.4 billion (15.4 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010. The net
interest margin in 2011 was 3.65 percent, compared with 3.88 percent in 2010 and 3.67 percent in 2009. The decrease in the net interest margin in 2011, compared with 2010, reflected planned growth in investment securities balances
held for liquidity purposes and higher cash balances held at the Federal Reserve. Refer to the  Interest Rate Risk Management  section for further information on the sensitivity of the Company s net interest income to changes in
interest rates.      Average total loans were $201.4 billion in 2011, compared with $193.0 billion in 2010. The
$8.4 billion (4.4 percent) increase was driven by growth in residential mortgages, commercial loans, commercial real estate loans and other retail loans, partially offset by lower acquisition-related covered loans and credit card
loans. Average residential mortgages increased $6.0 billion (21.7 percent) resulting from the net effect of origination and prepayment activity in the portfolio during 2011 due to the low interest rate environment. Average commercial loans
increased $4.6 billion (9.8 percent) year-over-year, primarily driven by higher demand from new and existing customers. Growth in average commercial real estate balances of $1.2 billion (3.6 percent) was primarily due to the FCB
acquisition. The $513 million (1.1 percent) increase in average other retail loans was primarily due to higher installment loans (primarily automobile) and retail leasing balances, partially offset by lower home equity and second mortgage balances.
Average credit card balances decreased $319 million (1.9 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010, the result of consumers spending less and paying down their balances. Average covered loans decreased $3.6 billion (18.2 percent) in 2011,
compared with 2010.   

TABLE 2  
          
    Analysis of Net Interest Income (a)           

(a)   
   Interest and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis utilizing a federal tax rate of 35 percent.      

(b)   
   Represents noninterest-bearing deposits, other noninterest-bearing liabilities and equity, allowance for loan losses and unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale
securities less non-earning assets.               Average investment securities in 2011 were $15.9 billion (33.3 percent) higher than 2010, primarily due to planned purchases of U.S. Treasury and government agency mortgage-backed
securities, as the Company increased its on-balance sheet liquidity in response to anticipated regulatory requirements.   
  Average total deposits for 2011 were $28.4 billion (15.4 percent) higher than 2010. Excluding deposits from acquisitions, 2011
average total deposits increased $19.3 billion (10.5 percent) over 2010. Average noninterest-bearing deposits in 2011 were $13.7 billion (34.1 percent) higher than 2010, primarily due to growth in Wholesale Banking and Commercial Real Estate,
and Wealth Management and Securities Services balances. Average total savings deposits were $13.8 billion (13.7 percent) higher in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to growth in corporate and institutional trust balances,
including the impact of the securitization trust administration acquisition, as well as an increase in Consumer and Small Business Banking balances resulting from continued strong participation in a product offering that includes multiple bank
products in a package. These increases were partially offset by lower broker-dealer balances. Average time certificates of deposit less than $100,000 were lower in 2011 by $1.4 billion (8.4 percent), compared with 2010, a result of maturities
and lower renewals. Average time deposits greater than $100,000 were $2.3 billion (8.5 percent) higher in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to the impact of the securitization trust administration and FCB acquisitions.   
  The $1.1 billion (12.3 percent) increase in net interest income in 2010, compared with 2009, was primarily the result of
growth in lower cost core deposit funding and increases in average earning assets. Average earning assets were $14.8 billion (6.2 percent) higher in 2010 compared with 2009, driven by increases in average loans and investment
securities. Average deposits increased $16.9 billion (10.1 percent) in 2010, compared with 2009.      Average total loans
increased $7.2 billion (3.9 percent) in 2010, compared with 2009, driven by growth in residential mortgages, credit card loans, other retail loans, commercial real estate loans and acquisition-related covered loans, partially offset
by a $5.8 billion (11.0 percent) decline in commercial loans, which was principally the result of lower utilization of available commitments by customers. Residential mortgage growth of $3.2 billion (13.2 percent) reflected
increased origination and refinancing activity. Average credit card balances for 2010 were $1.5 billion (9.8 percent) higher than 2009, reflecting growth in existing portfolios and portfolio purchases. Average other retail loans
increased $600 million (1.3 percent), driven by an increase in installment loans (primarily automobile). Growth in average commercial real estate balances of $518 million (1.5 percent) reflected the impact of new business
activity, partially offset by customer deleveraging. Average covered loans were $19.9 billion in 2010, compared with $12.7 billion in 2009, reflecting covered loans acquired from the FDIC in the fourth quarter of 2009.   

TABLE 3  
          
    Net Interest Income   Changes Due to Rate and Volume (a)           

(a)   
   This table shows the components of the change in net interest income by volume and rate on a taxable-equivalent basis utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent. This table does not
take into account the level of noninterest-bearing funding, nor does it fully reflect changes in the mix of assets and liabilities. The change in interest not solely due to changes in volume or rates has been allocated on a pro-rata basis to volume
and yield/rate.               Average
investment securities in 2010 were $5.0 billion (11.6 percent) higher than 2009, primarily due to purchases of U.S. Treasury and government agency mortgage-backed securities and the consolidation of $.6 billion of
held-to-maturity securities held in a variable interest entity ( VIE ) due to the adoption of new authoritative accounting guidance effective January 1, 2010.      Average total deposits for 2010 were $16.9 billion (10.1 percent) higher than 2009. Of this increase, $12.0 billion related to deposits assumed in a fourth quarter of 2009 acquisition. Average
noninterest-bearing deposits in 2010 were $2.3 billion (6.1 percent) higher than 2009, primarily due to growth in Consumer and Small Business Banking and Wholesale Banking and Commercial Real Estate balances. Average total savings deposits
were $19.0 billion (23.2 percent) higher in 2010, compared with 2009, due to an increase in savings account balances of $7.8 billion (59.5 percent) resulting from strong participation in a product offered by Consumer and Small Business
Banking, higher money market savings balances of $7.9 billion (24.8 percent) from higher corporate trust and Consumer and Small Business Banking balances, and higher interest checking account balances of $3.3 billion
(9.0 percent) resulting from increases in Consumer and Small Business Banking and institutional trust accounts. Average time certificates of deposit less than $100,000 were lower in 2010 by $1.3 billion (7.0 percent), compared
with 2009, reflecting the run-off of previously acquired balances and lower renewals. Average time deposits greater than $100,000 were $3.1 billion (10.3 percent) lower in 2010, compared with 2009, reflecting the net impact of
acquisitions, more than offset by a decrease in required overall wholesale funding.        Provision for
Credit Losses      The provision for credit losses reflects changes in the credit quality of the entire portfolio of loans. The
Company maintains an allowance for credit losses considered appropriate by management for probable and estimable incurred losses, based on factors discussed in the  Analysis and Determination of Allowance for Credit Losses  section.
      In 2011, the provision for credit losses was $2.3 billion, compared with $4.4 billion and $5.6 billion
in 2010 and   

2009, respectively. The provision for credit losses was lower than net charge-offs by $500 million in 2011, and exceeded net charge-offs by $175 million in 2010 and $1.7 billion in
2009. The $2.0 billion (46.2 percent) decrease in the provision for credit losses in 2011, compared with 2010, reflected improving credit trends and the underlying risk profile of the loan portfolio as economic conditions continued to further
stabilize. Accruing loans ninety days or more past due decreased by $251 million (22.9 percent) (excluding covered loans) from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011, reflecting a continued moderation in the level of stress in economic
conditions during 2011. Nonperforming assets decreased $777 million (23.2 percent) (excluding covered assets) from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011, led by a reduction in commercial and commercial real estate nonperforming
assets. Commercial real estate nonperforming assets declined $394 million (30.5 percent), as the Company continued to resolve and reduce exposure to these assets. Net charge-offs decreased $1.3 billion (32.0 percent) from 2010, due to the
improvement in the commercial, commercial real estate, credit card and other retail loan portfolios.      The $1.2 billion
decrease in the provision for credit losses in 2010, compared with 2009, reflected improving credit trends and the underlying risk profile of the loan portfolio as economic conditions continued to stabilize in 2010. Accruing loans ninety days or
more past due decreased by $431 million (excluding covered loans) from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, reflecting a moderation in the level of stress in economic conditions during 2010. Delinquencies in most major loan
portfolio classes began to decrease in the third quarter of 2010. Nonperforming assets decreased $553 million (excluding covered assets) from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, principally in the construction and land development
portfolios. However, net charge-offs increased $313 million (8.1 percent) in 2010 over 2009, as borrowers impacted by weak economic conditions and real estate markets defaulted on loans.   
  Refer to  Corporate Risk Profile  for further information on the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs, nonperforming
assets and other factors considered by the Company in assessing the credit quality of the loan portfolio and establishing the allowance for credit losses.        Noninterest Income      Noninterest income in
2011 was $8.8 billion, compared with $8.4 billion in 2010 and $8.0 billion in 2009. The $400 million (4.8 percent) increase in 2011 over 2010 was due to higher payments-related revenues of 3.5 percent due to continued growth
in transaction volumes and new business initiatives, partially offset by a decline in credit and debit card revenue due to the impact of legislative-related changes to debit card interchange fees; higher ATM processing services income of 6.9 percent
largely due to increased transaction volumes; an increase in commercial products revenue of 9.1 percent due to higher commercial leasing revenue, syndication fees and other commercial loan fees; a 16.2 percent increase in investment products
fees and commissions due to business initiatives; lower net securities losses of 60.3 percent, primarily due to lower impairments and an increase in other income. The increase in other income of 38.3 percent reflected the 2011 merchant
settlement gain and the FCB gain, in addition to higher retail lease residual revenue, partially offset by the Nuveen gain recognized in 2010. Offsetting these positive variances was a decrease in deposit service charges of 7.2 percent as a
result of 2010 legislative and pricing changes. Trust and investment management fees declined 7.4 percent as a result of the sale of the Company s proprietary long-term mutual fund business in the fourth quarter of 2010 and lower money
market investment management fees, due to the low interest rate environment, partially offset by the positive impact of the securitization trust administration acquisition and improved equity market conditions. Mortgage banking revenue decreased
1.7 percent, principally due to lower origination and sales revenue, partially offset by higher loan servicing          

TABLE 4  
          
    Noninterest Income       

revenue and a favorable net change in the valuation of mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ) and related economic hedging activities.   
  The $408 million (5.1 percent) increase in noninterest income in 2010 over 2009, was due to higher payments-related
revenues of 6.3 percent, principally due to increased transaction volumes and business expansion; an increase in commercial products revenue of 25.4 percent, attributable to higher standby letters of credit fees, commercial loan and
syndication fees and other capital markets revenue; a decrease in net securities losses of 82.7 percent, primarily due to lower impairments; and an 8.8 percent increase in other income, reflecting the Nuveen gain, higher 2010 gains related to
the Company s investment in Visa Inc. and higher retail lease residual revenue, partially offset by a $92 million gain on a corporate real estate transaction in 2009, a payments-related contract termination gain that occurred in 2009 and
lower customer derivative revenue. Mortgage banking revenue decreased 3.1 percent in 2010 compared with 2009, principally due to lower origination and sales revenue and an unfavorable net change in the valuation of MSRs and related economic
hedging activities, partially offset by higher servicing income. Deposit service charges decreased 26.8 percent as a result of Company-initiated and regulatory revisions to overdraft fee policies, partially offset by account growth. Trust and
investment management fees declined 7.5 percent because of money market investment fee waivers and customers migrating balances from money market funds to deposits due to low interest rates.   
  The implementation of legislation passed under the Durbin Amendment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of
2010, reduced noninterest income beginning in the fourth quarter of 2011 by approximately $77 million. The Company anticipates future noninterest income will be reduced approximately $300 million on an annualized basis, based on anticipated
transaction volume and excluding any mitigating actions the Company may take.         Noninterest
Expense    Noninterest expense in 2011 was $9.9 billion, compared with $9.4 billion in 2010 and $8.3 billion in 2009. The Company s efficiency ratio was 51.8 percent
in 2011, compared with 51.5 percent in 2010. The $528 million (5.6 percent) increase in noninterest expense in 2011 over 2010 was principally due to increased total compensation, employee benefits, net occupancy and equipment expense
and professional services expense, partially offset by a decrease in intangible amortization. Total compensation expense increased 6.9 percent, primarily due to an increase in staffing related to branch expansion and other business initiatives,
and merit increases. Employee benefits increased 21.8 percent due to higher pension costs and the impact of additional staffing. Net occupancy and equipment expense increased 8.7 percent, principally due to business expansion and technology
initiatives. Professional services expense increased 25.2 percent due to mortgage servicing-related and other projects across multiple business lines. Other intangibles expense decreased 18.5 percent due to the reduction or completion of
amortization of certain intangibles. Other expense reflected the 2011 $130 million expense accrual related to mortgage servicing matters, offset by lower conversion costs and insurance and litigation matters.   
  The $1.1 billion (13.3 percent) increase in noninterest expense in 2010 over 2009 was principally due to acquisitions,
increased total compensation and employee benefits expense and higher costs related to investments in affordable housing and other tax-advantaged projects. Total compensation and employee benefits expense increased 20.6 percent, reflecting
acquisitions, branch expansion and other initiatives, the elimination of a five percent cost reduction program that was in effect during 2009, higher incentive compensation costs related to the Company s   

TABLE 5  
          
    Noninterest Expense           

(a)   
   Computed as noninterest expense divided by the sum of net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis and noninterest income excluding securities gains (losses), net.

improved financial results in 2010 from 2009, merit increases, and increased pension costs associated with previous declines in the value of pension assets. Net occupancy and equipment expense
and professional services expense increased 9.9 percent and 20.0 percent, respectively, principally due to acquisitions and other business initiatives. Technology and communications expense increased 10.5 percent as a result of
business initiatives and volume increases across various business lines. Postage, printing and supplies expense increased 4.5 percent, principally due to payments-related business initiatives. Other expense increased 9.0 percent,
reflecting higher costs related to investments in affordable housing and other tax-advantaged projects and higher other real estate owned ( OREO ) costs, partially offset by a $123 million FDIC special assessment in 2009. Marketing
and business development expense decreased 4.8 percent, largely due to payments-related initiatives during 2009. Other intangibles expense decreased 5.2 percent due to the reduction or completion of amortization of certain intangibles.
        Pension Plans    Because of the
long-term nature of pension plans, the related accounting is complex and can be impacted by several factors, including investment funding policies, accounting methods and actuarial assumptions.   
  The Company s pension accounting reflects the long-term nature of the benefit obligations and the investment horizon of plan assets.
Amounts recorded in the financial statements reflect actuarial assumptions about participant benefits and plan asset returns. Changes in actuarial assumptions and differences in actual plan experience compared with actuarial assumptions, are
deferred and recognized in expense in future periods. Differences related to participant benefits are recognized in expense over the future service period of the employees. Differences related to the expected return on plan assets are included in
expense over a period of approximately twelve-years.      The Company expects pension expense to increase $66 million in 2012,
primarily driven by a $43 million increase related to a decrease in the discount rate, a $14 million increase related to the difference between the 2011 return on plan assets compared with expectations and a $6 million increase
related to lower future expected returns on plan assets. If performance of plan assets equals the actuarially-assumed long-term expected return, the cumulative asset return difference of $343 million at December 31, 2011 will incrementally
increase pension expense $60 million in 2013, incrementally decrease pension expense $4 million in 2014, and incrementally increase pension expense $9 million in 2015 and $14 million in 2016. Because of the complexity of
forecasting pension plan activities, the accounting methods utilized for pension plans, the Company s ability to respond to factors affecting the plans and the hypothetical nature of actuarial assumptions, actual pension expense will differ
from these amounts.      Refer to Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the
Company s pension plan funding practices, investment policies and asset allocation strategies, and accounting policies for pension plans.   
  The following table shows an analysis of hypothetical changes in the long-term rate of return ( LTROR ) and discount rate:   
   
       Income Tax Expense    The provision for income taxes was $1.8 billion (an effective rate of 27.8 percent) in 2011, compared with $935 million (an effective rate of 22.3 percent) in 2010 and $395 million
(an effective rate of 15.0 percent) in 2009. The increase in the effective tax rate over 2010 principally reflected the marginal impact of higher pretax earnings year-over-year.   
  For further information on income taxes, refer to Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
    Balance Sheet Analysis        Average earning
assets were $283.3 billion in 2011, compared with $252.0 billion in 2010. The increase in average earning assets of $31.2 billion (12.4 percent) was due to planned growth in average investment securities of
$15.9 billion (33.3 percent), higher loans of $8.4 billion (4.4 percent) and higher other earning assets of $7.7 billion, which included cash balances held at the Federal Reserve.   
  For average balance information, refer to Consolidated Daily Average Balance Sheet and Related Yields and Rates on pages 132 and 133.
        Loans    The Company s loan
portfolio was $209.8 billion at December 31, 2011, an increase of $12.8 billion (6.5 percent) from December 31, 2010. The increase was driven by growth in commercial loans of $8.3 billion (17.0 percent), residential mortgages of
$6.4 billion (20.7 percent), commercial real estate loans of $1.2 billion (3.3 percent) and credit card loan balances of $557 million (3.3 percent), partially offset by decreases in acquisition-related covered loans of
$3.3 billion (18.0 percent) and other retail loans of $284 million (.6 percent). Table 6 provides a summary of the loan distribution   

TABLE 6  
          
    Loan Portfolio Distribution           

by product type, while Table 12 provides a summary of the selected loan maturity distribution by loan category. Average total loans increased $8.4 billion (4.4 percent) in 2011,
compared with 2010. The increase was due to growth in most major loan portfolio classes in 2011.   
     Commercial    Commercial loans, including
lease financing, increased $8.3 billion (17.0 percent) as of December 31, 2011, compared with December 31, 2010. Average commercial loans increased $4.6 billion (9.8 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010. The growth
was primarily driven by demand from new and existing customers. Table 7 provides a summary of commercial loans by industry and geographical locations.         Commercial Real Estate    The Company s portfolio of commercial real estate loans, which
includes commercial mortgages and construction and development loans, increased $1.2 billion (3.3 percent) at December 31, 2011, compared with December 31, 2010. Average commercial real estate loans increased $1.2 billion
(3.6 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010. The increases were primarily due to the FCB acquisition. Table 8 provides a summary of commercial real estate loans by property type and geographical location. The collateral for $2.5 billion of
commercial real estate loans included in covered loans at December 31, 2011 was in California, compared with $4.5 billion at December 31, 2010.      The Company classifies loans as construction until the completion of the construction phase. Following construction, if a loan is retained, the loan is reclassified to the commercial mortgage category. In
2011, approximately $925 million of construction loans were reclassified to the commercial mortgage category for bridge financing after completion of the construction phase. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, $289 million and $270
million, respectively, of tax-exempt industrial development loans were secured by real estate. The Company s commercial mortgage and construction and development loans had unfunded commitments of $7.0 billion and $6.5 billion at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.      The Company also finances the operations of real estate developers and other
entities with operations related to real estate. These loans are not secured directly by real estate but are subject to terms and conditions similar to commercial loans. These loans were included in the commercial loan category and totaled $1.9
billion and $1.7 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

MDA SECTION 
        TABLE 7            
    Commercial Loans by Industry Group and Geography           

Residential Mortgages    Residential
mortgages held in the loan portfolio at December 31, 2011, increased $6.4 billion (20.7 percent) over December 31, 2010. Average residential mortgages increased $6.0 billion (21.7 percent) in 2011, compared
with 2010. The growth reflected the net effect of origination and prepayment activity in the portfolio due to the low interest rate environment. Most loans retained in the portfolio are to customers with prime or near-prime credit characteristics at
the date of origination.         Credit Card    Total credit card loans increased $557 million (3.3 percent) at December 31, 2011, compared with December 31, 2010. The increase primarily reflected credit card portfolio purchases of
approximately $700 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. Average credit card balances decreased $319 million (1.9 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010, the result of consumers spending less and paying down their balances.   

TABLE 8      
          Commercial Real Estate Loans by Property Type and Geography       

Other
Retail    Total other retail loans, which include retail leasing, home equity and second mortgages and other retail loans, decreased $284 million (.6 percent) at December 31, 2011,
compared with December 31, 2010. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in home equity and second mortgages and student loans, partially offset by increases in retail leasing and automobile loans primarily during the second half of the
year. Average other retail loans increased $513 million (1.1 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010. The increase was primarily driven by higher installment and retail leasing loans, partially offset by lower home equity and second mortgages.

TABLE 9  
          
    Residential Mortgages by Geography           

TABLE 10  
             
     Credit Card Loans by Geography        

TABLE 11  
             
     Other Retail Loans by Geography        

Of the total residential mortgages, credit card and other retail loans outstanding at December 31, 2011, approximately
72.8 percent were to customers located in the Company s primary banking region. Tables 9, 10 and 11 provide a geographic summary of residential mortgages, credit card loans and retail loans outstanding, respectively, as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010. The collateral for $5.2 billion of residential mortgages and other retail loans included in covered loans at December 31, 2011 was in California.         Loans       Held for Sale    Loans held for sale, consisting primarily of residential mortgages to be sold in the secondary market, were $7.2 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $8.4 billion at December 31,
2010. The decrease in loans held for sale was principally due to a higher level of mortgage loan origination and refinancing activity in the second half of 2010 compared with the second half of 2011.   

TABLE 12  
       
         Selected Loan Maturity Distribution        

Most of the residential mortgage loans the Company originates follow guidelines that allow the loans to be sold into existing, highly
liquid secondary markets; in particular in government agency transactions and to government sponsored enterprises ( GSEs ). The Company also originates residential mortgages that follow its own investment guidelines with the intent to hold
such loans in the loan portfolio, primarily well secured jumbo mortgages to borrowers with high credit quality, and near-prime non-conforming mortgages. The Company generally retains portfolio loans through maturity; however, the Company s
intent may change over time based upon various factors such as ongoing asset/liability management activities, assessment of product profitability, credit risk, liquidity needs, and capital implications. If the Company s intent or ability to
hold an existing portfolio loan changes, it is transferred to loans held for sale.   

TABLE 13  
             
     Investment Securities        

(a)   
   Information related to asset and mortgage-backed securities included above is presented based upon weighted-average maturities anticipating future prepayments.

(b)   
   Information related to obligations of state and political subdivisions is presented based upon yield to first optional call date if the security is purchased at a premium,
yield to maturity if purchased at par or a discount.      

(c)   
   Maturity calculations for obligations of state and political subdivisions are based on the first optional call date for securities with a fair value above par and contractual
maturity for securities with a fair value equal to or below par.      

(d)   
   The weighted-average maturity of the available-for-sale investment securities was 7.4 years at December 31, 2010, with a corresponding weighted-average yield of 3.41 percent.
The weighted-average maturity of the held-to-maturity investment securities was 6.3 years at December 31, 2010, with a corresponding weighted-average yield of 2.07 percent.      

(e)   
   Average yields are presented on a fully-taxable equivalent basis under a tax rate of 35 percent. Yields on available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities are computed
based on amortized cost balances. Average yield and maturity calculations exclude equity securities that have no stated yield or maturity.          

Investment Securities    The Company uses its investment securities portfolio to manage enterprise interest rate risk, provide liquidity (including the ability to meet proposed regulatory requirements), generate interest and
dividend income, and as collateral for public deposits and wholesale funding sources. While the Company intends to hold its investment securities indefinitely, it may sell available-for-sale securities in response to structural changes in the
balance sheet and related interest rate risk and to meet liquidity requirements, among other factors.      Investment securities
totaled $70.8 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $53.0 billion at December 31, 2010. The $17.8 billion (33.7 percent) increase primarily reflected $16.6 billion of net investment purchases and a $927 million
favorable change in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale investment securities. Held-to-maturity securities were $18.9 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $1.5 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily reflecting
planned growth in U.S. Treasury and government agency mortgage-backed securities, as the Company increased its on-balance sheet liquidity in response to anticipated regulatory requirements.   
  Average investment securities were $63.6 billion in 2011, compared with $47.8 billion in 2010. The weighted-average yield of the
available-for-sale portfolio was 3.19 percent at December 31, 2011, compared with 3.41 percent at December 31, 2010. The average maturity of the available-for-sale portfolio was 5.2 years at December 31, 2011, compared
with 7.4 years at December 31, 2010. The weighted-average yield of the held-to-maturity portfolio was 2.21 percent at December 31, 2011, compared with 2.07 percent at December 31, 2010. The average maturity of the held-to-maturity
portfolio was 3.9 years at December 31, 2011, compared with 6.3 years at December 31, 2010. Investment securities by type are shown in Table 13.      At December 31, 2011, the Company s net unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities was $581 million, compared with a net unrealized loss of $346 million at December 31,
2010. The favorable change in net unrealized gains (losses) was primarily due to increases in the fair value of state and political securities and agency mortgage-backed securities. Unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities in an unrealized
loss position totaled $691 million at December 31, 2011, compared with $1.2 billion at December 31, 2010. The Company conducts a regular assessment of its investment portfolio to determine whether any securities are
other-than-temporarily impaired. When assessing unrealized losses for other-than-temporary impairment, the Company considers the nature of the investment, the financial condition of the issuer, the extent and duration of unrealized loss, expected
cash flows of underlying assets and market conditions. At December 31, 2011, the Company had no plans to sell securities with unrealized losses and believes it is more likely than not that it would not be required to sell such securities before
recovery of their amortized cost.      There is limited market activity for non-agency mortgage-backed securities held by the
Company. As a result, the Company estimates the fair value of these securities using estimates of expected cash flows, discount rates and management s assessment of various other market factors, which are judgmental in nature. The Company
recorded $35 million of impairment charges in earnings during 2011 predominately on non-agency mortgage-backed securities. These impairment charges were due to changes in expected cash flows primarily resulting from increases in defaults in the
underlying mortgage pools. Further adverse changes in security performance or market conditions may result in additional impairment charges in future periods.      During 2010, the Company recognized impairment charges in earnings of $91 million predominately on non-agency mortgage-backed and structured investment-related securities. These impairment charges
were due to changes in expected cash flows resulting from increases in defaults in the underlying mortgage pools and regulatory actions in the first quarter of 2010 related to an insurer of some of the securities.   
  Refer to Notes 5 and 21 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on investment securities.
        Deposits    Total deposits were
$230.9 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $204.3 billion at December 31, 2010. The $26.6 billion (13.0 percent) increase in total deposits reflected organic growth in core deposits due to the overall
 flight-to-quality  by customers. Average total deposits increased $28.4 billion (15.4 percent) over 2010 due to increases in noninterest-bearing and total savings account balances, reflecting organic growth, as well as
acquisitions.      Noninterest-bearing deposits at December 31, 2011, increased $23.3 billion (51.3 percent) over
December 31, 2010. Average noninterest-bearing deposits increased $13.7 billion (34.1 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010. The increase was primarily due to growth in Wholesale Banking and Commercial Real Estate, and Wealth
Management and Securities Services balances.      Interest-bearing savings deposits increased $5.5 billion
(4.8 percent) at December 31, 2011, compared with December 31, 2010. The increase in these deposit balances was related to increases in savings and interest checking balances, partially offset by lower money market savings
account balances. The $3.8 billion (15.5 percent) increase in savings account balances reflected continued strong participation in a savings product offered by Consumer and Small Business Banking that includes multiple bank products
in a package. The $2.8 billion (6.4 percent) increase in interest checking account balances was primarily due to higher Consumer and Small Business Banking, national corporate   

The composition of deposits was as follows:       
    The maturity
of time deposits was as follows:       

banking and corporate trust balances, partially offset by lower broker-dealer balances. The $1.0 billion (2.1 percent) decrease in money market savings account balances was
primarily due to lower Consumer and Small Business Banking, and broker-dealer balances, partially offset by higher Wealth Management and Securities Services balances. Average interest-bearing savings deposits in 2011 increased $13.8 billion
(13.7 percent), compared with 2010, primarily due to growth in corporate and institutional trust balances, including the impact of the securitization trust administration acquisition, as well as an increase in Consumer and Small Business
Banking balances, partially offset by lower broker-dealer balances.      Interest-bearing time deposits at December 31, 2011,
decreased $2.1 billion (4.8 percent), compared with December 31, 2010, driven by decreases in both time certificates of deposit less than $100,000 and time deposits greater than $100,000. Time certificates of deposit less than
$100,000 decreased $131 million (.9 percent) at December 31, 2011, compared with December 31, 2010, as a result of decreases in Consumer and Small Business Banking balances. Average time certificates of deposit less than $100,000 in
2011 decreased $1.4 billion (8.4 percent), compared with 2010, reflecting maturities and lower renewals. Time deposits greater than $100,000 decreased $2.0 billion (6.8 percent) at December 31, 2011, compared with December 31,
2010. Average time deposits greater than $100,000 in 2011 increased $2.3 billion (8.5 percent), compared with 2010 primarily due to the impact of the securitization trust administration and FCB acquisitions.   
  During 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law, resulting in a permanent increase in the
statutory standard maximum deposit insurance amount for domestic deposits to $250,000 per depositor. Domestic time deposits greater than $250,000 were $4.7 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $5.4 billion at December 31,
2010.   

Borrowings    The Company utilizes both short-term and long-term borrowings as part of its asset/liability management and funding strategies. Short-term borrowings, which include federal funds purchased, commercial
paper, repurchase agreements, borrowings secured by high-grade assets and other short-term borrowings, were $30.5 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $32.6 billion at December 31, 2010. The $2.1 billion
(6.4 percent) decrease in short-term borrowings reflected reduced borrowing needs by the Company as a result of increases in deposits.      Long-term debt was $32.0 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $31.5 billion at December 31, 2010, reflecting $2.3 billion of medium-term note issuances and a
$1.4 billion increase in long-term debt related to certain consolidated VIEs, partially offset by $1.6 billion of subordinated debt repayments and maturities, $.8 billion of extinguishments of junior subordinated debentures, and a $.4
billion decrease in Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Refer to Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding long-term debt and the  Liquidity Risk Management  section for discussion of
liquidity management of the Company.        Corporate Risk Profile          Overview      Managing risks is an essential
part of successfully operating a financial services company. The most prominent risk exposures are credit, residual value, operational, interest rate, market and liquidity risk. Credit risk is the risk of not collecting the interest and/or the
principal balance of a loan, investment or derivative contract when it is due. Residual value risk is the potential reduction in the end-of-term value of leased assets. Operational risk includes risks related to fraud, legal and compliance,
processing errors, technology, breaches of internal controls and in data security, and business continuation and disaster recovery. Interest rate risk is the potential reduction of net interest income as a result of changes in interest rates, which
can affect the re-pricing of assets and liabilities differently. Market risk arises from fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and security prices that may result in changes in the values of financial instruments, such as trading
and available-for-sale securities, certain mortgage loans held for sale, MSRs and derivatives that are accounted for on a fair value basis. Liquidity risk is the possible inability to fund obligations to depositors, investors or borrowers. Further,
corporate strategic decisions, as well as the risks described above, could give rise to reputation risk. Reputation risk is the risk that negative publicity or press, whether true or not, could result in costly litigation or cause a decline in the
Company s stock value, customer base, funding sources or revenue. In addition to the risks identified above, other risk factors exist that may impact the Company. Refer to  Risk Factors  beginning on page 134, for a detailed
discussion of these factors.         Credit Risk Management      The Company s strategy for credit risk management includes well-defined, centralized credit    
  policies, uniform underwriting criteria, and ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all commercial and consumer credit exposures. The strategy
also emphasizes diversification on a geographic, industry and customer level, regular credit examinations and management reviews of loans exhibiting deterioration of credit quality.   
  In addition, credit quality ratings as defined by the Company, are an important part of the Company s overall credit risk management
and evaluation of its allowance for credit losses. Loans with a pass rating represent those not classified on the Company s rating scale for problem credits, as minimal risk has been identified. Loans with a special mention or classified
rating, including all of the Company s loans that are 90 days or more past due and still accruing, nonaccrual loans, and those considered troubled debt restructurings ( TDRs ), encompass all loans held by the Company that it
considers to have a potential or well-defined weakness that may put full collection of contractual cash flows at risk. The Company s internal credit quality ratings for consumer loans are primarily based on delinquency and nonperforming status,
except for a limited population of larger loans within those portfolios that are individually evaluated. For this limited population, the determination of the internal credit quality rating may also consider collateral value and customer cash flows.
The Company recently began obtaining recent collateral value estimates for the majority of its residential mortgage and home equity and second mortgage portfolios, which allows the Company to compute estimated loan-to-value ( LTV ) ratios
reflecting current market conditions. These individual refreshed loan-to-value ratios are considered in the determination of the appropriate allowance for credit losses. The Company strives to identify potential problem loans early, record any
necessary charge-offs promptly and maintain appropriate allowance levels for probable incurred loan losses. Refer to Notes 1 and 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information of the Company s loan portfolios
including internal credit quality ratings.      The Company categorizes its loan portfolio into three segments, which is the level
at which it develops and documents a systematic methodology to determine the allowance for credit losses. The Company s three loan portfolio segments are commercial lending, consumer lending and covered loans. The commercial lending segment
includes loans and leases made to small business, middle market, large corporate, commercial real estate, financial institution, and public sector customers. Key risk characteristics relevant to commercial lending segment loans include the industry
and geography of the borrower s business, purpose of the loan,   

repayment source, borrower s debt capacity and financial flexibility, loan covenants, and nature and value of pledged collateral, if any. These risk characteristics, among others, are
considered in determining estimates about the likelihood of default by the borrowers and the severity of loss in the event of default. The Company considers these risk characteristics in assigning internal risk ratings to, or forecasting losses on,
these loans which are the significant factors in determining the allowance for credit losses for loans in the commercial lending segment.      The consumer lending segment represents loans and leases made to consumer customers including residential mortgages, credit card loans, and other retail loans such as revolving consumer lines, auto loans
and leases, student loans, and home equity loans and lines. Home equity and second mortgage loans are junior lien closed-end accounts fully disbursed at origination. These loans typically are fixed rate loans, secured by residential real estate,
with a 10 or 15 year fixed payment amortization schedule. Home equity lines are revolving accounts giving the borrower the ability to draw and repay balances repeatedly, up to a maximum commitment, and are secured by residential real estate.
These include accounts in either a first or junior lien position. Typical terms on home equity lines are variable rates benchmarked to the prime rate, with a 15 year draw period during which a minimum payment is equivalent to the monthly
interest, followed by a 10 year amortization period. At December 31, 2011, substantially all of the Company s home equity lines were in the draw period. Key risk characteristics relevant to consumer lending segment loans primarily
relate to the borrowers  capacity and willingness to repay and include unemployment rates and other economic factors, customer payment history and in some cases, updated loan-to-value information on collateral-dependent loans. These risk
characteristics, among others, are reflected in forecasts of delinquency levels, bankruptcies and losses which are the primary factors in determining the allowance for credit losses for the consumer lending segment.   
  The covered loan segment represents loans acquired in FDIC-assisted transactions that are covered by loss sharing agreements with the FDIC
that greatly reduce the risk of future credit losses to the Company. Key risk characteristics for covered segment loans are consistent with the segment they would otherwise be included in had the loss share coverage not been in place but consider
the indemnification provided by the FDIC.      The Company further disaggregates its loan portfolio segments into various classes
based on their underlying risk characteristics. The two classes within the commercial lending segment are commercial loans and commercial real estate loans. The three classes within the consumer lending segment are residential mortgages, credit card
loans and other retail loans. The covered loan segment consists of only one class.      Because business processes and credit risks
associated with unfunded credit commitments are essentially the same as for loans, the Company utilizes similar processes to estimate its liability for unfunded credit commitments. The Company also engages in non-lending activities that may give
rise to credit risk, including derivative transactions for balance sheet hedging purposes, foreign exchange transactions, deposit overdrafts and interest rate swap contracts for customers, and settlement risk, including Automated Clearing House
transactions and the processing of credit card transactions for merchants. These activities are subject to credit review, analysis and approval processes.          Economic and Other Factors     In evaluating its credit risk, the Company considers
changes, if any, in underwriting activities, the loan portfolio composition (including product mix and geographic, industry or customer-specific concentrations), trends in loan performance, the level of allowance coverage relative to similar banking
institutions and macroeconomic factors, such as changes in unemployment rates, gross domestic product and consumer bankruptcy filings.      Beginning in late 2007, financial markets suffered significant disruptions, leading to and exacerbated by declining real estate values and subsequent economic challenges, both domestically and globally.
Median home prices, which peaked in 2006, declined across most domestic markets, which had a significant adverse impact on the collectability of residential mortgage loans. Residential mortgage delinquencies increased throughout 2008 and 2009. High
unemployment levels throughout 2009, 2010 and 2011 further increased losses in prime-based residential portfolios and credit cards.      Economic conditions began to stabilize in late 2009 and continued to improve throughout 2010 and 2011, though unemployment and under-employment continued to be elevated, consumer confidence and spending
remained lower and stress continued in the residential mortgage portfolio due to a decline in home values. Credit costs peaked for the Company in late 2009 and have trended downward thereafter. The provision for credit losses was lower than net
charge-offs by $500 million in 2011, and exceeded net charge-offs by $175 million in 2010 and $1.7 billion in 2009. The $2.0 billion (46.2 percent) decrease in the provision for credit losses in 2011, compared with 2010, reflected
improving credit trends and the underlying risk profile of the loan portfolio as economic conditions continued to further stabilize.          Credit Diversification     The Company manages its credit risk, in part, through diversification of its loan portfolio and limit setting by
product type criteria and concentrations. As part of its normal business activities, the Company offers a broad array of traditional commercial lending products and   

specialized products such as asset-based lending, commercial lease financing, agricultural credit, warehouse mortgage lending, commercial real estate, health care and correspondent banking. The
Company also offers an array of consumer lending products, including residential mortgages, credit card loans, retail leases, home equity, revolving credit, lending to students and other consumer loans. These consumer lending products are primarily
offered through the branch office network, home mortgage and loan production offices, indirect distribution channels, such as automobile dealers, and a consumer finance division. The Company monitors and manages the portfolio diversification by
industry, customer and geography. Table 6 provides information with respect to the overall product diversification and changes in the mix during 2011.      The commercial loan class is diversified among various industries with somewhat higher concentrations in consumer products and services, financial services, healthcare, capital goods (including
manufacturing and commercial construction-related businesses), and commercial services and supplies. Additionally, the commercial loan class is diversified across the Company s geographical markets with 67.6 percent of total commercial loans
within the Company s Consumer and Small Business Banking markets. Credit relationships outside of the Company s Consumer and Small Business Banking markets relate to the corporate banking, mortgage banking, auto dealer and leasing
businesses, focusing on large national customers and specifically targeted industries. Loans to mortgage banking customers are primarily warehouse lines which are collateralized with the underlying mortgages. The Company regularly monitors its
mortgage collateral position to manage its risk exposure. Table 7 provides a summary of significant industry groups and geographical locations of commercial loans outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010.   
  The commercial real estate loan class reflects the Company s focus on serving business owners within its geographic footprint as well
as regional and national investment-based real estate owners and builders. Within the commercial real estate loan class, different property types have varying degrees of credit risk. Table 8 provides a summary of the significant property types and
geographical locations of commercial real estate loans outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010. At December 31, 2011, approximately 32.8 percent of the commercial real estate loans represented business owner-occupied properties that
tend to exhibit less credit risk than nonowner-occupied properties. The investment-based real estate mortgages are diversified among various property types with somewhat higher concentrations in multi-family and retail properties. During 2011, the
Company continued to reduce its level of exposure to homebuilders, given the stress in the homebuilding industry sector. From a geographical perspective, the Company s commercial real estate loan class is generally well diversified. However, at
December 31, 2011, 21.3 percent of the Company s commercial real estate loans were secured by collateral in California, which has experienced higher delinquency levels and credit quality deterioration due to excess home inventory
levels and declining valuations. Included in commercial real estate at year-end 2011 was approximately $1.1 billion in loans related to land held for development and $1.5 billion of loans related to residential and commercial acquisition
and development properties. These loans are subject to quarterly monitoring for changes in local market conditions due to a higher credit risk profile. The commercial real estate loan class is diversified across the Company s geographical
markets with 87.4 percent of total commercial real estate loans outstanding at December 31, 2011, within the Company s Consumer and Small Business Banking markets.   
  The Company s consumer lending segment utilizes several distinct business processes and channels to originate consumer credit,
including traditional branch lending, indirect lending, portfolio acquisitions and a consumer finance division. Each distinct underwriting and origination activity manages unique credit risk characteristics and prices its loan production
commensurate with the differing risk profiles. Within Consumer and Small Business Banking, the consumer finance division specializes in serving channel-specific and alternate lending markets in residential mortgages, home equity and installment loan
financing. The consumer finance division manages loans originated through a broker network, correspondent relationships and the Company s branch offices. Generally, loans managed by the Company s consumer finance division exhibit higher
credit risk characteristics, but are priced commensurate with the differing risk profile.      Residential mortgages represent an
important financial product for consumer customers of the Company and are originated through the Company s branches, loan production offices, a wholesale network of originators and the consumer finance division. The Company may retain
residential mortgage loans it originates on its balance sheet or sell the loans into the secondary market while retaining the servicing rights and customer relationships. Utilizing the secondary markets enables the Company to effectively reduce its
credit and other asset/liability risks. For residential mortgages that are retained in the Company s portfolio and for home equity and second mortgages, credit risk is also diversified by geography and managed by adherence to loan-to-value and
borrower credit criteria during the underwriting process.      The Company recently began estimating updated loan-to-value
information quarterly, based on a method that combines automated valuation model updates and   

appropriate home price indices. Loan-to-value is the ratio of the loan s outstanding principal balance to the current estimate of property value. For home equity and second mortgages,
combined loan-to-value ( CLTV ) is the combination of the first mortgage original principal balance and the second lien outstanding principal balance, relative to the current estimate of property value. Certain loans do not have a
loan-to-value or combined loan-to-value primarily due to lack of availability of appropriate automated valuation model and/or home price indices values, or lack of necessary valuation data on portfolio acquisitions.   
  The following tables provide summary information for the loan-to-values of residential mortgages and home equity and second mortgages by distribution
channel and type at December 31, 2011:       

(a)   
   Represents loans purchased from Government National Mortgage Association ("GNMA") mortgage pools whose payments are primarily insured by the Federal Housing Administration or
guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs.          
    Within the consumer finance division, at December 31, 2011, approximately $1.9 billion of residential
mortgages were to customers that may be defined as sub-prime borrowers based on credit scores from independent agencies at loan origination, compared with $2.1 billion at December 31, 2010.   In addition to residential mortgages, at
December 31, 2011, the consumer finance division had $.5 billion of home equity and second mortgage loans to customers that may be defined as sub-prime borrowers, unchanged from December 31, 2010.   
  The following table provides further information on the loan-to-values of residential mortgages, specifically for the consumer finance division, at
December 31, 2011:       

The following table provides further information on the loan-to-values of home equity and second mortgages
specifically for the consumer finance division at December 31, 2011:       
    The total amount of consumer lending segment residential mortgage, home equity and second mortgage loans
to customers that may be defined as sub-prime borrowers represented only .7 percent of total assets at December 31, 2011, compared with .9 percent at December 31, 2010. Covered loans included $1.5 billion in loans with
negative-amortization payment options at December 31, 2011, compared with $1.6 billion at December 31, 2010. Other than covered loans, the Company does not have any residential mortgages with payment schedules that would cause
balances to increase over time.      Home equity and second mortgages were $18.1 billion at December 31, 2011, and included $5.2
billion of home equity lines in a first lien position and $12.9 billion of home equity and second mortgage loans and lines in a junior lien position. Loans and lines in a junior lien position at December 31, 2011, included approximately $3.7
billion of loans and lines for which the Company also serviced the related first lien loan, and approximately $9.2 billion where the Company did not service the related first lien loan. The Company was able to determine the status of the related
first liens on approximately 65 percent of the total portfolio using information the Company has as the servicer of the first lien or information it received from its primary regulator on loans serviced by other large servicers. The Company uses
this information to estimate the first lien status on the remainder of the portfolio. The Company also evaluates other indicators of credit risk for these junior lien loans and lines including delinquency, estimated average combined loan-to-value
ratios and weighted average credit scores in making its assessment of credit risk, related loss estimates and determining the allowance for credit losses.      The following table provides a summary of delinquency statistics and other credit quality indicators for the Company s junior lien positions at December 31, 2011:   
   
    See the Analysis and Determination of the Allowance for Credit Losses section for additional information
on how the Company determines the allowance for credit losses for loans in a junior lien position.      The decline in housing
prices over the past several years has deteriorated the collateral support of the residential mortgage, home equity and second mortgage portfolios. However, the underwriting criteria the Company employs consider the relevant income and credit
characteristics of the borrower, such that the collateral is not the primary source of repayment.      Credit card and other retail
loans principally reflect the Company s focus on consumers within its geographical footprint of branches and certain niche lending activities that are nationally focused. Approximately 69.8 percent of the Company s credit card
balances relate to cards originated through the Company s branches or co-branded, travel and affinity programs that generally experience better credit quality performance than portfolios generated through other channels.   
  Tables 9, 10 and 11 provide a geographical summary of the residential mortgage, credit card and other retail loan portfolios,
respectively.      Assets acquired by the Company in FDIC-assisted transactions included nonperforming loans and other loans with
characteristics indicative of a high credit risk profile, including a substantial concentration in California, loans with negative-amortization payment options, and homebuilder and other construction finance loans. Because most of these loans are
covered under loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, the Company s financial exposure to losses from these assets is substantially reduced. To the extent actual losses exceed the Company s estimates at acquisition, the Company s
financial risk would only be its share of those losses under the loss sharing agreements.   

TABLE 15  
          
    Delinquent Loan Ratios as a Percent of Ending Loan Balances           

Loan Delinquencies     Trends in delinquency ratios are an indicator, among other considerations, of credit risk within the Company s loan portfolios. The entire balance of an account is considered delinquent if the
minimum payment contractually required to be made is not received by the specified date on the billing statement. The Company measures delinquencies, both including and excluding nonperforming loans, to enable comparability with other companies.
Delinquent loans purchased from Government National Mortgage Association ( GNMA ) mortgage pools whose repayments of principal and interest are primarily insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department of
Veterans Affairs, are excluded from delinquency statistics. In addition, in certain situations, a consumer lending customer s account may be re-aged to remove it from delinquent status. Generally, the purpose of re-aging accounts is to assist
customers who have recently overcome temporary financial difficulties, and have demonstrated both the ability and willingness to resume regular payments. To qualify for re-aging, the account must have been open for at least nine months and cannot
have been re-aged during the preceding 365 days. An account may not be re-aged more than two times in a five-year period. To qualify for re-aging, the customer must also have made three regular minimum monthly payments within the last
90 days. In addition, the Company may re-age the consumer lending account of a customer who has experienced longer-term financial difficulties and apply modified, concessionary terms and conditions to the account. Such additional re-ages are
limited to one in a five-year period and must meet the qualifications for re-aging described above. All re-aging strategies must be independently approved by the Company s credit administration function. Commercial lending loans are generally
not subject to re-aging policies.      Accruing loans 90 days or more past due totaled $1.8 billion ($843 million excluding covered
loans) at   

December 31, 2011, compared with $2.2 billion ($1.1 billion excluding covered loans) at December 31, 2010, and $2.3 billion ($1.5 billion excluding covered loans) at December 31,
2009. The $251 million (22.9 percent) decrease, excluding covered loans, reflected a moderation in the level of stress in economic conditions during 2011. These loans are not included in nonperforming assets and continue to accrue interest because
they are adequately secured by collateral, are in the process of collection and are reasonably expected to result in repayment or restoration to current status, or are managed in homogeneous portfolios with specified charge-off timeframes adhering
to regulatory guidelines. The ratio of accruing loans 90 days or more past due to total loans was .84 percent (.43 percent excluding covered loans) at December 31, 2011, compared with 1.11 percent (.61 percent excluding
covered loans) at December 31, 2010, and 1.19 percent (.88 percent excluding covered loans) at December 31, 2009.      The
following table provides summary delinquency information for residential mortgages, credit card and other retail loans included in the consumer lending segment:       

(b)   
   Includes revolving credit, installment, automobile and student loans.         The following table provides information on delinquent and nonperforming consumer lending loans as a percent of ending loan balances, by channel:   

(a)   
   Excludes loans purchased from GNMA mortgage pools that are 90 days or more past due that continue to accrue interest.      

(b)   
   Includes revolving credit, installment, automobile and student loans.         Within the consumer finance division at December 31, 2011, approximately $363 million and $63 million of these delinquent residential mortgages and home equity and other retail loans, respectively,
were to customers that may be defined as sub-prime borrowers, compared with $412 million and $75 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010.      The following table provides summary delinquency information for covered loans:       

Restructured Loans     In certain circumstances, the Company may modify the terms of a loan to maximize the collection of amounts due when a borrower is experiencing financial difficulties or is expected to experience
difficulties in the near-term. In most cases the modification is either a concessionary reduction in interest rate, extension of the maturity date or reduction in the principal balance that would otherwise not be considered. Concessionary
modifications are classified as TDRs unless the modification results in only an insignificant delay in the payments to be received. TDRs accrue interest if the borrower complies with the revised terms and conditions and has demonstrated repayment
performance at a level commensurate with the modified terms over several payment cycles. Loans classified as TDRs are considered impaired loans for reporting and measurement purposes.          Troubled Debt Restructurings     The Company continues to work with customers to modify
loans for borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulties, including those acquired through FDIC-assisted acquisitions. Many of the Company s TDRs are determined on a case-by-case basis in connection with ongoing loan collection
processes. The modifications vary within each of the Company s loan classes. Commercial lending segment TDRs generally include extensions of the maturity date and may be accompanied by an increase or decrease to the interest rate. The Company
may also work with the borrower to make other changes to the loan to mitigate losses, such as obtaining additional collateral and/or guarantees to support the loan.      The Company has also implemented certain residential mortgage loan restructuring programs that may result in TDRs. The Company participates in the U.S. Department of the Treasury Home Affordable
Modification Program ( HAMP ). HAMP gives qualifying homeowners an opportunity to permanently modify their loan and achieve more affordable monthly payments, with the U.S. Department of the Treasury compensating the Company for a
portion of the reduction in monthly amounts due from borrowers participating in this program. The Company also modifies residential mortgage loans under Federal Housing Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs, or other internal programs.
Under these programs, the Company provides concessions to qualifying borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. The concessions may include adjustments to interest rates, conversion of adjustable rates to fixed rates, extensions of maturity
dates or deferrals of payments, capitalization of accrued interest and/or outstanding advances, or in limited situations, partial forgiveness of loan principal. In most instances, participation in residential mortgage loan restructuring programs
requires the customer to complete a short-term trial period. A permanent loan modification is contingent on the customer successfully completing the trial period arrangement and the loan documents are not modified until that time. Loans that require
a trial period arrangement are reported as TDRs when offered to a borrower.      Credit card and other retail loan modifications
are generally part of distinct restructuring programs. The Company offers a workout program providing customers modification solutions over a specified time period, generally up to 60 months. The Company also provides modification programs to
qualifying customers experiencing a temporary financial hardship in which reductions are made to monthly required minimum payments for up to 12 months.      Modifications to loans in the covered segment are similar in nature to that described above for non-covered loans, and the evaluation and determination of TDR status is similar, except that acquired loans
restructured after acquisition are not considered TDRs for purposes of the Company s accounting and disclosure if the loans evidenced credit deterioration as of the acquisition date and are accounted for in pools. Losses associated with
modifications on covered loans, including the economic impact of interest rate reductions, are generally eligible for reimbursement under the loss sharing agreements.      During 2011, the Company adopted new accounting guidance that provided clarification to the scope of determining whether loan modifications should be considered TDRs. The adoption of this guidance
resulted in additional restructurings being considered TDRs, but did not have a material impact on the Company s allowance for credit losses.          Short-term Modifications     The Company makes short-term modifications that it does not
consider to be TDRs in limited circumstances to assist borrowers experiencing temporary hardships. Consumer lending programs include payment reductions, deferrals of up to three past due payments, and the ability to return to current status if the
borrower makes required payments. The Company may also make short-term modifications to commercial lending loans, with the most common modification being an extension of the maturity date of three months or less. Such extensions generally are used
when the maturity date is imminent and the borrower is experiencing some level of financial stress, but the Company believes the borrower will pay all contractual amounts owed. These short-term modifications made were not material.   

The following table provides a summary of TDRs by loan class, including the delinquency status for TDRs that
continue to accrue interest and TDRs included in nonperforming assets:       

(a)   
   Primarily represents loans less than six months from the modification date that have not met the performance period required to return to accrual status (generally six months)
and small business credit cards with a modified rate equal to 0 percent.      

(b)   
   Primarily represents loans less than six months from the modification date that have not met the performance period required to return to accrual status (generally six
months).      

(c)   
   Primarily represents loans with a modified rate equal to 0 percent.      

(d)   
   Includes $75 million of residential mortgage loans in trial period arrangements at December 31, 2011.      

(e)   
   Includes $3 million of home equity and second mortgage loans in trial period arrangements at December 31, 2011.      

(f)   
   Includes $207 million of Federal Housing Association and Department of Veterans Affairs residential mortgage loans in trial period arrangements at December 31, 2011.
           
      Nonperforming Assets     The level of
nonperforming assets represents another indicator of the potential for future credit losses. Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans, restructured loans not performing in accordance with modified terms or those that have not met the
performance period required to return to accrual status, other real estate and other nonperforming assets owned by the Company. Nonperforming assets are generally either originated by the Company or acquired under FDIC loss sharing agreements that
substantially reduce the risk of credit losses to the Company. Interest payments collected from assets on nonaccrual status are typically applied against the principal balance and not recorded as income.   
  At December 31, 2011, total nonperforming assets were $3.8 billion, compared with $5.0 billion at December 31, 2010
and $5.9 billion at December 31, 2009. Excluding covered assets, nonperforming assets were $2.6 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $3.4 billion at December 31, 2010 and $3.9 billion at December 31, 2009.
The $777 million (23.2 percent) decrease in nonperforming assets, excluding covered assets, from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011, was primarily driven by reductions in construction and development nonperforming loans
and by improvement in the other commercial and commercial mortgage portfolios. These decreases were partially offset by higher nonperforming residential mortgages as stress continued in the residential mortgage portfolios due to the decline in home
values. Nonperforming covered assets at December 31, 2011 were $1.2 billion, compared with $1.7 billion at December 31, 2010 and $2.0 billion at December 31, 2009. These assets are covered by loss sharing agreements with the
FDIC that substantially reduce the risk of credit losses to the Company. In addition, the majority of the nonperforming covered assets were considered credit-impaired at acquisition and recorded at their estimated fair value at acquisition. The
ratio of total nonperforming assets to total loans and other real estate was 1.79 percent (1.32 percent excluding covered assets) at December 31, 2011, compared with 2.55 percent (1.87 percent excluding covered assets) at
December 31, 2010 and 3.02 percent (2.25 percent excluding covered assets) at December 31, 2009.      Other
real estate, excluding covered assets, was $404 million at December 31, 2011, compared with $511 million at December 31, 2010 and $437 million at December 31, 2009, and was related to foreclosed properties that
previously secured loan balances.   

TABLE 16  
          
    Nonperforming Assets (a)           

(a)   
   Throughout this document, nonperforming assets and related ratios do not include accruing loans 90 days or more past due.      

(d)   
   Includes equity investments in entities whose principal assets are other real estate owned.      

(e)   
   Charge-offs exclude actions for certain card products and loan sales that were not classified as nonperforming at the time the charge-off occurred.

(f)   
   Residential mortgage information excludes changes related to residential mortgages serviced by others.      

TABLE 17  
          
    Net Charge-Offs as a Percent of Average Loans Outstanding           

The following table provides an analysis of OREO, excluding covered assets, as a percent of their related loan balances, including geographical location
detail for residential (residential mortgage, home equity and second mortgage) and commercial (commercial and commercial real estate) loan balances:       
        Analysis of Loan Net Charge-Offs     Total loan net charge-offs were $2.8 billion in 2011, compared with $4.2 billion in 2010 and $3.9 billion in 2009. The ratio of total loan net charge-offs to average loans was
1.41 percent in 2011, compared with 2.17 percent in 2010 and 2.08 percent in 2009. The decrease in total net charge-offs in 2011, compared with 2010, was principally due to stabilizing economic conditions. Total net charge-offs peaked
for the Company in the first quarter of 2010 and have trended lower since.      Commercial and commercial real estate loan net
charge-offs for 2011 were $904 million (1.04 percent of average loans outstanding), compared with $1.7 billion (2.06 percent of average loans outstanding) in 2010 and $1.5 billion (1.78 percent of average loans outstanding) in
2009. The decrease in net charge-offs in 2011, compared with 2010, reflected the impact of efforts to resolve and reduce exposure to problem assets in the Company s commercial real estate portfolios and improvement in the other commercial
portfolios due to the stabilizing economy. The increase in net charge-offs in 2010, compared with 2009, reflected the weakening economy and rising unemployment throughout most of 2009, which affected the residential housing markets, including
homebuilding and related industries, commercial real estate properties and other commercial loans.      Residential mortgage loan
net charge-offs for 2011 were $489 million (1.45 percent of average loans outstanding), compared with $546 million (1.97 percent of average loans outstanding) in 2010 and $489 million (2.00 percent of average loans
outstanding) in 2009. Credit card loan net charge-offs for 2011 were $834 million (5.19 percent of average loans outstanding), compared with $1.2 billion (7.32 percent of average loans outstanding) in 2010 and $1.0 billion
(6.90 percent of average loans outstanding) in   

2009. Other retail loan net charge-offs for 2011 were $604 million (1.25 percent of average loans outstanding), compared with $745 million (1.56 percent of average loans
outstanding) in 2010 and $797 million (1.69 percent of average loans outstanding) in 2009. The decrease in total residential mortgage, credit card and other retail loan net charge-offs in 2011, compared with 2010, reflected the impact of more
stable economic conditions. The increase in total residential mortgage, credit card and other retail loan net charge-offs in 2010, compared with 2009, reflected the adverse impact of economic conditions on consumers, as higher unemployment levels
increased losses in the prime-based residential mortgage and credit card portfolios.      The following table provides an analysis of net
charge-offs as a percent of average loans outstanding managed by the consumer finance division, compared with other consumer lending loans:       

(a)   
   Includes revolving credit, installment, automobile and student loans.         The following table provides further information on net charge-offs as a percent of average loans outstanding for the consumer finance division:   
   
              Analysis and Determination of the Allowance for Credit Losses     The allowance for credit losses reserves for probable and estimable losses
incurred in the Company s loan and lease portfolio, and includes certain amounts that do not represent loss exposure to the Company because those losses are recoverable under loss sharing agreements with the FDIC. The allowance for credit
losses is increased through provisions charged to operating earnings and reduced by net charge-offs. Management evaluates the allowance each quarter to ensure it appropriately reserves for incurred losses. The evaluation of each element and the
overall allowance is based on a continuing assessment of problem loans, recent loss experience and other factors, including regulatory guidance and economic conditions. Because business processes and credit risks associated with unfunded credit
commitments are essentially the same as for loans, the Company utilizes similar processes to estimate its liability for unfunded credit commitments, which is included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Both the allowance for
loan losses and the liability for unfunded credit commitments are included in the Company s analysis of credit losses and reported reserve ratios.      At December 31, 2011, the allowance for credit losses was $5.0 billion (2.39 percent of total loans and 2.52 percent of loans excluding covered loans), compared with an allowance of
$5.5 billion (2.81 percent of total loans and 3.03 percent of loans excluding covered loans) at December 31, 2010. The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to nonperforming loans was 163 percent (228 percent
excluding covered loans) at December 31, 2011, compared with 136 percent (192 percent excluding covered loans) at December 31, 2010. The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to annual loan net charge-offs at December 31,
2011, was 176 percent, compared with 132 percent at December 31, 2010, as net charge-offs continue to decline due to stabilizing economic conditions. Management determined the allowance for credit losses was appropriate at
December 31, 2011.   

TABLE 18  
          
    Summary of Allowance for Credit Losses           

Note:   
   At December 31, 2011 and 2010, $1.8 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of the total allowance for credit losses related to incurred losses on credit card and other retail
loans.      

(a)   
   Relates to covered loan charge-offs and recoveries not reimbursable by the FDIC.      

TABLE 19  
          
    Elements of the Allowance for Credit Losses           
       
  The allowance recorded for loans in the commercial lending segment is based on reviews of individual credit relationships and considers
the migration analysis of commercial lending segment loans and actual loss experience. The Company currently uses an 11 year period of historical losses in considering actual loss experience. This timeframe and the results of the analysis are
evaluated quarterly to determine the appropriateness. The allowance recorded for impaired loans greater than $5 million in the commercial lending segment is based on an individual loan analysis utilizing expected cash flows discounted using the
original effective interest rate, the observable market price, or the fair value of the collateral for collateral-dependent loans. The allowance recorded for all other commercial lending segment loans is determined on a homogenous pool basis and
includes consideration of product mix, risk characteristics of the portfolio, bankruptcy experience, and historical losses, adjusted for current trends. The allowance established for commercial lending segment loans, was $2.2 billion at
December 31, 2011, compared with $2.4 billion at December 31, 2010. The decrease in the allowance for commercial lending segment loans of $231 million at December 31, 2011, compared with December 31, 2010, reflected the
impact of efforts by the Company to resolve and reduce exposure to problem assets in the commercial real estate portfolios and improvement in other commercial portfolios due to the stabilizing economy.   
  The allowance recorded for purchased impaired and TDR loans in the consumer lending segment is determined on a homogenous pool basis
utilizing expected cash flows discounted using the original effective interest rate of the pool. The allowance recorded for all other consumer lending segment loans is determined on a homogenous pool basis and includes consideration of product mix,
risk characteristics of the portfolio, bankruptcy experience, delinquency status and historical losses, adjusted for current trends.      When evaluating the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses for any loans and lines in a junior lien position, the Company considers the delinquency and modification status of the first lien.
At December 31, 2011, the Company serviced the first lien on 29 percent of the home equity loans and lines in a junior lien position and receives information from its primary regulator on the status of the first liens that are serviced by other
large servicers in the industry when the second lien is current. As a result, at December 31, 2011, the Company had information on the status of the first liens related to approximately 65 percent of the home equity loans and lines in a junior lien
position. The Company uses this information to estimate the first lien status on the remainder of the portfolio. Regardless of whether or not the Company services the first lien, an assessment is made of economic conditions, problem loans, recent
loss experience and other factors in determining the allowance for credit losses. At December 31, 2011, the Company knew the related first lien was delinquent or modified on $299 million of the home equity loans and lines in a junior lien position
or 1.6 percent of the total home equity portfolio. Based on this information, the Company estimated $459 million or 2.5 percent of the total home equity portfolio at December 31, 2011, represented junior liens where the first lien was delinquent or
modified. The Company uses historical loss experience on the loans and lines in a junior lien position where the first lien is serviced by the Company to establish loss estimates for junior liens and lines when they are current. The Company applies

this estimate to the remaining portfolio of junior lien loans and lines where the first lien is serviced by others. Historically, the number of junior lien defaults in any period has been a small
percentage of the total portfolio (for example, only 1.9 percent for the year ended December 31, 2011), and the long-term average loss rate on the small percentage of loans that default has been approximately 80 percent. In periods of economic
stress such as the current environment, the Company has experienced loss severity rates in excess of 90 percent for junior liens that default. In addition, the Company obtains updated credit scores on its home equity portfolio each quarter and in
some cases more frequently, and uses this information to qualitatively supplement its loss estimation methods. Credit score distributions for the portfolio are monitored monthly and any changes in the distribution are one of the factors considered
in assessing the Company s loss estimates. The allowance established for consumer lending segment loans was $2.8 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $3.0 billion at December 31, 2010. The $272 million decrease in the allowance
for consumer lending segment loans at December 31, 2011, compared with December 31, 2010, reflected the impact of more stable economic conditions.      The allowance for covered segment loans is evaluated each quarter in a manner similar to that described for non-covered loans, and represents any decreases in expected cash flows on those loans after the
acquisition date. The provision for credit losses for covered segment loans considers the indemnification provided by the FDIC. The allowance established for covered segment loans was $100 million at December 31, 2011, compared with $114
million at December 31, 2010 and principally reflected anticipated credit losses to be reimbursed by the FDIC.      In
addition, the evaluation of the appropriate allowance for credit losses for purchased non-impaired loans acquired after January 1, 2009, in the various loan segments considers credit discounts recorded as a part of the initial determination of
the fair value of the loans. For these loans, no allowance for credit losses is recorded at the purchase date. Credit discounts representing the principal losses expected over the life of the loans are a component of the initial fair value.
Subsequent to the purchase date, the methods utilized to estimate the required allowance for credit losses for these loans is similar to originated loans; however, the Company records a provision for credit losses only when the required allowance,
net of any expected reimbursement under any loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, exceeds any remaining credit discounts. The evaluation of the appropriate allowance for credit losses for purchased impaired loans in the various loan segments
considers the expected cash flows to be collected from the borrower. These loans are initially recorded at fair value and therefore no allowance for credit losses is recorded at the purchase date. Subsequent to the purchase date, the expected cash
flows of the impaired loans are subject to evaluation. Decreases in the present value of expected cash flows are recognized by recording an allowance for credit losses.      The Company s methodology for determining the appropriate allowance for credit losses for all the loan segments also considers the imprecision inherent in the methodologies used. As a result, in
addition to the amounts determined under the methodologies described above, management also considers the potential impact of other qualitative factors which include, but are not limited to, economic factors; geographic and other concentration
risks; delinquency and nonaccrual trends; current business conditions; changes in lending policy, underwriting standards, internal review and other relevant business practices; and the regulatory environment. The consideration of these items results
in adjustments to allowance amounts included in the Company s allowance for credit losses for each of the above loan segments. Table 19 shows the amount of the allowance for credit losses by loan segment, class and underlying portfolio
category.      Although the Company determines the amount of each element of the allowance separately and considers this process to
be an important credit management tool, the entire allowance for credit losses is available for the entire loan portfolio. The actual amount of losses incurred can vary significantly from the estimated amounts.   
     Residual Value Risk Management    The
Company manages its risk to changes in the residual value of leased assets through disciplined residual valuation setting at the inception of a lease, diversification of its leased assets, regular residual asset valuation reviews and monitoring of
residual value gains or losses upon the disposition of assets. Commercial lease originations are subject to the same well-defined underwriting standards referred to in the  Credit Risk Management  section which includes an evaluation of
the residual value risk. Retail lease residual value risk is mitigated further by originating longer-term vehicle leases and effective end-of-term marketing of off-lease vehicles.   
  Included in the retail leasing portfolio was approximately $3.4 billion of retail leasing residuals at December 31, 2011,
compared with $2.9 billion at December 31, 2010. The Company monitors concentrations of leases by manufacturer and vehicle  make and model.  As of December 31, 2011, vehicle lease residuals related to sport utility vehicles were
53.1 percent of the portfolio, while upscale and mid-range vehicle classes represented approximately 17.2 percent and 16.6 percent of the portfolio, respectively. At year-end 2011, the largest vehicle-type concentration represented
7.0 percent of the aggregate residual value of the vehicles in the portfolio.   

Because retail residual valuations tend to be less volatile for longer-term leases, relative
to the estimated residual at inception of the lease, the Company actively manages lease origination production to achieve a longer-term portfolio. At December 31, 2011, the weighted-average origination term of the portfolio was 42 months,
compared with 44 months at December 31, 2010. Since the beginning of 2009, used vehicle prices have increased substantially as sales of new vehicles were affected by the financial condition of the automobile manufacturers, various
government programs and involvement with the manufacturers, and consumers preference for used, instead of new, vehicles due to uncertainty about the economy.      At December 31, 2011, the commercial leasing portfolio had $620 million of residuals, compared with $661 million at December 31, 2010. At year-end 2011, lease residuals related to
trucks and other transportation equipment were 32.3 percent of the total residual portfolio. Business and office equipment represented 22.6 percent of the aggregate portfolio, while railcars represented 12.9 percent. No other concentrations of more
than 10 percent existed at December 31, 2011.         Operational Risk Management    Operational risk represents the risk of loss resulting from the Company s operations, including, but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside the Company, unauthorized
access to its computer systems, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of internal controls and in data security, compliance requirements, and business continuation
and disaster recovery. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their
implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity.      The Company operates in many different businesses
in diverse markets and relies on the ability of its employees and systems to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is inherent in all business activities, and the management of this risk is important to the achievement of the
Company s objectives. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, unauthorized access or improper operation of systems, or improper employees  actions, the Company could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action and
suffer damage to its reputation.      The Company manages operational risk through a risk management framework and its internal
control processes. Within this framework, the Risk Management Committee of the Company s Board of Directors provides oversight and assesses the most significant operational risks facing the Company within its business lines. Under the guidance
of the Risk Management Committee, enterprise risk management personnel establish policies and interact with business lines to monitor significant operating risks on a regular basis. Business lines have direct and primary responsibility and
accountability for identifying, controlling, and monitoring operational risks embedded in their business activities. Business managers maintain a system of controls with the objective of providing proper transaction authorization and execution,
proper system operations, safeguarding of assets from misuse or theft, and ensuring the reliability of financial and other data. Business managers ensure the controls are appropriate and are implemented as designed.   
  Each business line within the Company has designated risk managers. These risk managers are responsible for, among other things,
coordinating the completion of ongoing risk assessments and ensuring that operational risk management is integrated into business decision-making activities. The Company s internal audit function validates the system of internal controls
through regular and ongoing risk-based audit procedures and reports on the effectiveness of internal controls to executive management and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Management also provides various operational risk related
reporting to the Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors.      Customer-related business conditions may also increase
operational risk, or the level of operational losses in certain transaction processing business units, including merchant processing activities. Ongoing risk monitoring of customer activities and their financial condition and operational processes
serve to mitigate customer-related operational risk. Refer to Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on merchant processing. Business continuation and disaster recovery planning is also critical to
effectively managing operational risks. Each business unit of the Company is required to develop, maintain and test these plans at least annually to ensure that recovery activities, if needed, can support mission critical functions, including
technology, networks and data centers supporting customer applications and business operations.      While the Company believes it
has designed effective methods to minimize operational risks, there is no absolute assurance that business disruption or operational losses would not occur in the event of a disaster. On an ongoing basis, management makes process changes and
investments to enhance its systems of internal controls and business continuity and disaster recovery plans.         Interest Rate Risk Management    In the banking industry, changes in interest rates are a significant risk that can impact earnings, market valuations
and safety and soundness of an entity. To minimize the volatility of net interest income and the market value of assets and liabilities, the Company   

manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through asset and liability management activities within guidelines established by its Asset Liability Committee ( ALCO ) and approved
by the Board of Directors. The ALCO has the responsibility for approving and ensuring compliance with the ALCO management policies, including interest rate risk exposure. The Company uses net interest income simulation analysis and market value of
equity modeling for measuring and analyzing consolidated interest rate risk.          Net
Interest Income Simulation Analysis     One of the primary tools used to measure interest rate risk and the effect of interest rate changes on net interest income is simulation analysis.
The monthly analysis incorporates substantially all of the Company s assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet instruments, together with forecasted changes in the balance sheet and assumptions that reflect the current interest rate
environment. Through this simulation, management estimates the impact on net interest income of a 200 basis point ( bps ) upward or downward gradual change of market interest rates over a one-year period. The simulation also estimates
the effect of immediate and sustained parallel shifts in the yield curve of 50 bps as well as the effect of immediate and sustained flattening or steepening of the yield curve. This simulation includes assumptions about how the balance sheet is
likely to be affected by changes in loan and deposit growth. Assumptions are made to project interest rates for new loans and deposits based on historical analysis, management s outlook and re-pricing strategies. These assumptions are validated
on a periodic basis. A sensitivity analysis is provided for key variables of the simulation. The results are reviewed by the ALCO monthly and are used to guide asset/liability management strategies.   
  The table below summarizes the projected impact to net interest income over the next 12 months of various potential interest rate
changes. The Company manages its interest rate risk position by holding assets on the balance sheet with desired interest rate risk characteristics, implementing certain pricing strategies for loans and deposits and through the selection of
derivatives and various funding and investment portfolio strategies. The Company manages the overall interest rate risk profile within policy limits. The ALCO policy limits the estimated change in net interest income in a gradual 200 bps rate change
scenario to a 4.0 percent decline of forecasted net interest income over the next 12 months. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company was within policy.          Market Value of Equity Modeling     The Company also manages interest rate sensitivity
by utilizing market value of equity modeling, which measures the degree to which the market values of the Company s assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet instruments will change given a change in interest rates. Management measures the
impact of changes in market interest rates under a number of scenarios, including immediate and sustained parallel shifts, and flattening or steepening of the yield curve. The ALCO policy limits the change in the market value of equity in a
200 bps parallel rate shock to a 15.0 percent decline. A 200 bps increase would have resulted in a 2.0 percent decrease in the market value of equity at December 31, 2011, compared with a 3.6 percent decrease at
December 31, 2010. A 200 bps decrease, where possible given current rates, would have resulted in a 6.4 percent decrease in the market value of equity at December 31, 2011, compared with a 5.2 percent decrease at
December 31, 2010.      The valuation analysis is dependent upon certain key assumptions about the nature of assets and
liabilities with non-contractual maturities. Management estimates the average life and rate characteristics of asset and liability accounts based upon historical analysis and management s expectation of rate behavior. Mortgage prepayment
assumptions are based on many key variables, including current and projected interest rates compared with underlying contractual rates, the time since origination and period to next reset date if floating rate loans, and other factors including
housing price indices and geography, which are updated regularly based on historical experience and forward market expectations. The balance and pricing assumptions of deposits that have no stated maturity are based on historical performance, the
competitive environment, customer behavior, and product mix. These assumptions are validated on a periodic basis. A sensitivity analysis of key variables of the valuation analysis is provided to the ALCO monthly and is used to guide asset/liability
management strategies.              Sensitivity of Net Interest Income

*   
   Given the current level of interest rates, a downward rate scenario can not be computed.      

Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate and Other
Risks     To reduce the sensitivity of earnings to interest rate, prepayment, credit, price and foreign currency fluctuations ( asset and liability management positions ), the
Company enters into derivative transactions. The Company uses derivatives for asset and liability management purposes primarily in the following ways:       

To convert fixed-rate debt from fixed-rate payments to floating-rate payments;      

To convert the cash flows associated with floating-rate loans and debt from floating-rate payments to fixed-rate payments;

To mitigate changes in value of the Company s mortgage origination pipeline, funded mortgage loans held for sale and MSRs; and

To mitigate remeasurement volatility of foreign currency denominated balances.      
  To manage these risks, the Company may enter into exchange-traded and over-the-counter derivative contracts, including interest rate
swaps, swaptions, futures, forwards and options. In addition, the Company enters into interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts to support the business requirements of its customers ( customer-related positions ). The Company
minimizes the market and liquidity risks of customer-related positions by entering into similar offsetting positions with broker-dealers. The Company does not utilize derivatives for speculative purposes.   
  The Company does not designate all of the derivatives that it enters into for risk management purposes as accounting hedges because of the
inefficiency of applying the accounting requirements and may instead elect fair value accounting for the related hedged items. In particular, the Company enters into U.S. Treasury futures, options on U.S. Treasury futures contracts,
interest rate swaps and forward commitments to buy to-be-announced securities ( TBAs ) to mitigate fluctuations in the value of its MSRs, but does not designate those derivatives as accounting hedges.   
  Additionally, the Company uses forward commitments to sell TBAs and other commitments to sell residential mortgage loans at specified
prices to economically hedge the interest rate risk in its residential mortgage loan production activities. At December 31, 2011, the Company had $14.6 billion of forward commitments to sell, hedging $6.9 billion of mortgage loans held for
sale and $12.9 billion of unfunded mortgage loan commitments. The forward commitments to sell and the unfunded mortgage loan commitments are considered derivatives under the accounting guidance related to accounting for derivative instruments
and hedging activities, and the Company has elected the fair value option for the mortgage loans held for sale.      Derivatives
are subject to credit risk associated with counterparties to the contracts. Credit risk associated with derivatives is measured by the Company based on the probability of counterparty default. The Company manages the credit risk of its derivative
positions by diversifying its positions among various counterparties, entering into master netting agreements where possible with its counterparties, requiring collateral agreements with credit-rating thresholds and, in certain cases, transferring
the counterparty credit risk related to interest rate swaps to third parties through the use of risk participation agreements.   
  For additional information on derivatives and hedging activities, refer to Note 20 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
        Market Risk Management    In
addition to interest rate risk, the Company is exposed to other forms of market risk, principally related to trading activities which support customers  strategies to manage their own foreign currency, interest rate risk and funding activities.
The ALCO established the Market Risk Committee ( MRC ), which oversees market risk management. The MRC monitors and reviews the Company s trading positions and establishes policies for market risk management, including exposure limits
for each portfolio. The Company also manages market risk of non-trading business activities, including its MSRs and certain mortgage loans held for sale. The Company uses a Value at Risk ( VaR ) approach to measure general market risk.
Theoretically, VaR represents the statistical risk of loss the Company has to adverse market movements over a one-day time horizon. The Company uses the Historical Simulation method to calculate VaR for its trading businesses measured at the
ninety-ninth percentile using a one-year look-back period for distributions derived from past market data. The market factors used in the calculations include those pertinent to market risks inherent in the underlying trading portfolios, principally
those that affect its investment grade bond trading business, foreign currency transaction business, client derivatives business, loan trading business and municipal securities business. On average, the Company expects the one-day VaR to be exceeded
two to three times per year in each business. The Company monitors the effectiveness of its risk programs by back-testing the performance of its VaR models, regularly updating the historical data used by the VaR models and stress testing. If the
Company were to experience market losses in excess of the estimated VaR more often than expected, the VaR models and associated assumptions would be analyzed and adjusted. The Company stress tests its market risk measurements to provide management
with perspectives on market events that may not be captured by its VaR models, including worst case historical market movement combinations that have not necessarily occurred on the same date.   

The average, high and low VaR amounts for 2011 were $2 million, $4 million and $1 million,
respectively, compared with $2 million, $5 million and $1 million, respectively, for 2010. There have been no incidents where the actual trading losses exceeded the bank-wide one-day VaR during 2011 and 2010.   
     Liquidity Risk Management    The
Company s liquidity risk management process is designed to identify, measure, and manage the Company s funding and liquidity risk to meet its daily funding needs and to address expected and unexpected changes in its funding requirements.
The Company engages in various activities to manage its liquidity risk. These include diversifying its funding sources, stress testing, and holding readily-marketable assets which can be used as a source of liquidity if needed. In addition, the
Company s profitable operations, sound credit quality and strong capital position have enabled it to develop a large and reliable base of core deposit funding within its market areas and in domestic and global capital markets.   
  The Risk Management Committee of the Company s Board of Directors oversees the Company s liquidity risk management process and
approves the Company s liquidity policy and contingency funding plan. The ALCO reviews and approves the Company s liquidity policies and guidelines, and regularly assesses the Company s ability to meet funding requirements arising
from adverse company-specific or market events.      The Company s liquidity policies require it to maintain diversified
wholesale funding sources to avoid maturity, name and market concentrations. The Company operates a Grand Cayman branch for issuing Eurodollar time deposits. In addition, the Company has relationships with dealers to issue national market retail and
institutional savings certificates and short-term and medium-term notes. The Company also maintains a significant correspondent banking network and relationships. Accordingly, the Company has access to national federal funds, funding through
repurchase agreements and sources of stable, regionally-based certificates of deposit and commercial paper.      The Company
regularly projects its funding needs under various stress scenarios and maintains contingency plans consistent with the Company s access to diversified sources of contingent funding. The Company maintains a substantial level of total available
liquidity in the form of on- and off-balance sheet funding sources. These include cash at the Federal Reserve, unencumbered liquid assets, such as U.S. Treasury and government agency mortgage-backed securities, and capacity to borrow at the Federal
Home Loan Bank ( FHLB ) and the Federal Reserve Discount Window. Unencumbered liquid assets in the Company s available-for-sale and held-to-maturity investment portfolios provide asset liquidity through the Company s ability to
sell the securities or pledge and borrow against them. At December 31, 2011, unencumbered available-for-sale and held-to-maturity investment securities totaled $48.7 billion, compared with $22.6 billion at December 31, 2010. Refer to Table
13 and  Balance Sheet Analysis  for further information on investment securities maturities and trends. Asset liquidity is further enhanced by the Company s ability to pledge loans to access secured borrowing facilities through the
FHLB and Federal Reserve Bank. At December 31, 2011, the Company could have borrowed an additional $56.4 billion at the FHLB and Federal Reserve Bank based on collateral available for additional borrowings.   
  The Company s diversified deposit base provides a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost funding, while reducing the
Company s reliance on the wholesale markets. Total deposits were $230.9 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $204.3 billion at December 31, 2010,   

Moody s  
        
    Standard    
  Poor s   
        
  Fitch  
        
    Dominion  
  Bond  
  Rating Service    
 
     U.S. Bancorp    

Short-term borrowings   

F1   
        
  R-1 (middle)   
 
    Senior debt and medium-term notes   
     
  Aa3  
        
  A  
        
  AA-  
        
  AA   
 
    Subordinated debt   
     
  A1  
        
  A-  
        
  A   
        
  AA (low)   
 
    Preferred stock   
     
  A3  
        
  BBB   
        
  A  
        
  A   
 
    Commercial paper   
     
  P-1  
        
  A-1  
        
  F1   
        
  R-1 (middle)   
 
     U.S. Bank National Association    

Short-term time deposits   
     
  P-1  
        
  A-1  
        
  F1   
        
  R-1 (high)   
 
    Long-term time deposits   
     
  Aa2  
        
  A   
        
  AA  
        
  AA (high)   
 
    Bank notes   
     
  Aa2/P-1  
        
  A /A-1  
        
  AA-/F1   
        
  AA (high)   
 
    Subordinated debt   
     
  Aa3  
        
  A  
        
  A   
        
  AA   
 
    Senior unsecured debt   
     
  Aa2  
        
  A   
        
  AA-  
        
  AA (high)   
 
    Commercial paper   
     
  P-1  
        
  A-1  
        
  F1   
        
  R-1 (high)          

reflecting organic growth in core deposits and acquired balances. Refer to Table 14 and  Balance Sheet Analysis  for further information on deposit trends.   
  Additional funding is provided by long-term debt and short-term borrowings. Long-term debt was $32.0 billion at December 31, 2011,
and is an important funding source because of its multi-year lending structure. Refer to Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the terms and maturities of the Company s long-term debt issuances and
 Balance Sheet Analysis  for discussion on long-term debt trends. Short-term borrowings were $30.5 billion at December 31, 2011, and supplement the Company s other funding sources. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements and  Balance Sheet Analysis  for information on the terms and trends of the Company s short-term borrowings.      The Company s ability to raise negotiated funding at competitive prices is influenced by rating agencies  views of the Company s credit quality, liquidity, capital and earnings. Table 20
details the rating agencies  most recent assessments.      In addition to assessing liquidity risk on a consolidated basis,
the Company monitors the parent company s liquidity. The parent company s routine funding requirements consist primarily of operating expenses, dividends paid to shareholders, debt service, repurchases of common stock and funds used for
acquisitions. The parent company obtains funding to meet its obligations from dividends collected from its subsidiaries and the issuance of debt securities. The Company maintains sufficient funding to meet expected parent company obligations,
without access to the wholesale funding markets or dividends from subsidiaries, for 12 months when forecasted payments of common stock dividends are included and 24 months assuming dividends were reduced to zero. The parent company
currently has available funds considerably greater than the amounts required to satisfy these conditions.      Under United States
Securities and Exchange Commission rules, the parent company is classified as a  well-known seasoned issuer,  which allows it to file a registration statement that does not have a limit on issuance capacity.  Well-known seasoned
issuers  generally include those companies with outstanding common securities with a market value of at least $700 million held by non-affiliated parties or those companies that have issued at least $1 billion in aggregate principal
amount of non-convertible securities, other than common equity, in the last three years. However, the parent company s ability to issue debt and other securities under a registration statement filed with the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission under these rules is limited by the debt issuance authority granted by the Company s Board of Directors and/or the ALCO policy.      At December 31, 2011, parent company long-term debt outstanding was $14.6 billion, compared with $13.0 billion at December 31, 2010. The $1.6 billion increase was primarily due to
$2.3 billion of medium-term note issuances, partially offset by $.6 billion of junior subordinated debenture extinguishments. At December 31, 2011, there was $2.7 billion of parent company debt scheduled to mature in 2012. Future debt
maturities may be met through medium-term note and capital security issuances and dividends from subsidiaries, as well as from parent company cash and cash equivalents.      Federal banking laws regulate the amount of dividends that may be paid by banking subsidiaries without prior approval. The amount of dividends available to the parent company from its banking subsidiaries
after meeting the regulatory capital requirements for well-capitalized banks was approximately $6.6 billion at December 31, 2011. For further information, see Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

TABLE 21  
          
    Contractual Obligations           

(a)   
   Unrecognized tax positions of $479 million at December 31, 2011, are excluded as the Company cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement with
the respective taxing authority.      

(b)   
   Includes obligations under capital leases.      

(c)   
   Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non-qualified pension plans and post-retirement medical plan.      

(d)   
   Includes accrued interest and future contractual interest obligations.      

European Exposures     Certain     European countries have recently experienced severe credit deterioration. The Company does not hold sovereign debt of any European country, however the Company may have indirect
exposure to sovereign debt through its investments in and transactions with European banks. At December 31, 2011, the Company had investments in perpetual preferred stock issued by European banks with amortized cost totaling $169 million and
unrealized losses totaling $48 million. The Company also transacts with various European banks as counterparties to interest rate swaps and foreign currency transactions for its hedging and customer-related activities, however none of these banks
are domiciled in the countries experiencing the most significant credit deterioration. These derivative transactions are subject to master netting and collateral support agreements which significantly limit the Company s exposure to loss as
they generally require daily posting of collateral. At December 31, 2011, the Company was in a net payable position to each of these European banks.      The Company has not bought or sold credit protection on the debt of any European country or any company domiciled in Europe, nor does it provide retail or commercial lending services in Europe. However,
it does provide financing to domestic multinational corporations that generate revenue from customers in European countries. While an economic downturn in Europe could have a negative impact on these customers  revenues, it is unlikely that any
effect on the overall credit worthiness of these multinational corporations would be material to the Company. The Company also provides merchant processing services directly to merchants in Europe and through banking affiliations in Europe. The
direct exposure to European banks or governments through this business is not material to the Company.      The money market funds
managed by an affiliate of the Company do not have any investments in European sovereign debt. Other than an investment in a bank domiciled in the Netherlands, those funds also do not have any unsecured investments in banks domiciled in the
Eurozone.          Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements     Off-balance sheet arrangements include any contractual arrangement to which an unconsolidated entity is a party, under which the Company has an obligation to provide credit or liquidity enhancements or
market risk support. Off-balance sheet arrangements also include any obligation under a variable interest held by an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, credit enhancement or market risk support. The Company has not utilized
private label asset securitizations as a source of funding.      Commitments to extend credit are legally binding and generally
have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses. Many of the Company s commitments to extend credit expire without being drawn, and therefore, total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future liquidity requirements or the
Company s exposure to credit loss. Commitments to extend credit also include consumer credit lines that are cancelable upon notification to the consumer. Total contractual amounts of commitments to extend credit at December 31, 2011 were
$194.1 billion. The Company also issues various types of letters of credit, including standby and commercial. Total contractual amounts of letters of credit at December 31, 2011 were $19.6 billion. For more information on the Company s
commitments to extend credit and letters of credit, refer to Note 22 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      The
Company s off-balance sheet arrangements with unconsolidated entities primarily consist of community-based tax-advantaged investments in affordable housing or business development entities that provide capital for communities located in
low-income districts and for historic rehabilitation projects. In addition to providing investment returns, these arrangements in many cases assist the Company in complying with requirements of the Community Reinvestment Act. The investments in
these entities generate a return primarily through the realization of federal and state income tax credits. The entities in which the Company invests are generally considered variable interest entities. The Company s recorded investment in
these entities as of December 31, 2011 was approximately $1.8 billion.      The Company also has non-controlling financial
investments in private funds and partnerships considered variable interest entities. The Company s recorded investment in these entities was approximately $47 million at December 31, 2011 and the Company had unfunded commitments to invest
an additional $16 million. For more information on the Company s interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities, refer to Note 8 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  Guarantees are contingent commitments issued by the Company to customers or other third parties requiring the Company to perform if
certain conditions exist or upon the occurrence or nonoccurrence of a specified event, such as a scheduled payment to be made under contract. The Company s primary guarantees include commitments from securities lending activities in which
indemnifications are provided to customers; indemnification or buy-back provisions related to sales of loans and tax credit investments; merchant charge-back guarantees through the Company s involvement in providing merchant processing
services; and minimum revenue guarantee arrangements. For certain guarantees, the Company may have access to collateral to support the guarantee, or through the exercise of other recourse provisions, be able to offset some or all of any payments
made under these guarantees.      The Company and certain of its subsidiaries, along with other Visa U.S.A. Inc. member banks, have
a contingent   

guarantee obligation to indemnify Visa Inc. for potential losses arising from antitrust lawsuits challenging the practices of Visa U.S.A. Inc., MasterCard International, the Company and several
other Visa U.S.A. Inc. member banks (the  Visa Litigation ). The indemnification by the Company and other Visa U.S.A. Inc. member banks has no maximum amount. Refer to Note 22 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further
details regarding guarantees, other commitments, and contingent liabilities, including maximum potential future payments and current carrying amounts.         Capital Management    The Company is committed to managing capital to maintain strong
protection for depositors and creditors and for maximum shareholder benefit. The Company continually assesses its business risks and capital position. The Company also manages its capital to exceed regulatory capital requirements for
well-capitalized bank holding companies. To achieve these capital goals, the Company employs a variety of capital management tools, including dividends, common share repurchases, and the issuance of subordinated debt, non-cumulative perpetual
preferred stock, common stock and other capital instruments.      The Company repurchased approximately 22 million shares of
its common stock in 2011, compared with approximately 1 million shares in 2010. The average price paid for the shares repurchased in 2011 was $24.71 per share, compared with $23.88 per share in 2010. As of December 31, 2011, the Company
had approximately 29 million shares that may yet be purchased under the current Board of Directors approved authorization. For a more complete analysis of activities impacting shareholders  equity and capital management programs, refer to
Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      Total U.S. Bancorp shareholders  equity was
$34.0 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $29.5 billion at December 31, 2010. The increase was primarily the result of corporate earnings, the issuance of $.7 billion of non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock to
extinguish certain junior subordinated debentures and changes in unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investment securities included in other comprehensive income, partially offset by dividends and common share repurchases.   
  Banking regulators define minimum capital requirements for banks and financial services holding companies. These requirements are
expressed in the form of a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio, total risk-based capital ratio, and Tier 1 leverage ratio. The minimum required level for these ratios is 4.0 percent, 8.0 percent, and 4.0 percent, respectively. The
Company targets its regulatory capital levels, at both the bank and bank holding company level, to exceed the  well-capitalized  threshold for these ratios of 6.0 percent, 10.0 percent, and 5.0 percent, respectively. The
most recent notification from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency categorized each of the Company s banks as  well-capitalized , under the FDIC Improvement Act prompt corrective action provisions that are applicable to all
banks. There are no conditions or events since that notification that management believes have changed the risk-based category of any covered subsidiary banks.      As an approved mortgage seller and servicer, U.S. Bank National Association, through its mortgage banking division, is required to maintain various levels of shareholders  equity, as specified
by various agencies, including the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development,         

TABLE 22  
          
    Regulatory Capital Ratios           

TABLE 23  
          
    Fourth Quarter Results           

(a)   
   Interest and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent.      
        
Government National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Federal National Mortgage Association. At December 31, 2011, U.S. Bank National Association met
these requirements.      Table 22 provides a summary of capital ratios as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, including Tier 1
and total risk-based capital ratios, as defined by the regulatory agencies.      The Company believes certain capital ratios in
addition to regulatory capital ratios are useful in evaluating its capital adequacy. The Company s Tier 1 common equity (using Basel I definition) and tangible common equity, as a percent of risk-weighted assets, were 8.6 percent and
8.1 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2011, compared with 7.8 percent and 7.2 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2010. The Company s tangible common equity divided by tangible assets was 6.6 percent at December 31, 2011,
compared with 6.0 percent at December 31, 2010. Additionally, the Company s Tier 1 common as a percent of risk-weighted assets, under the anticipated Basel III definition as if fully implemented, was 8.2 percent at December 31, 2011,
compared with 7.3 percent at December 31, 2010. Refer to  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  for further information regarding the calculation of these ratios.        Fourth Quarter Summary        The Company reported net income attributable to U.S. Bancorp of
$1.4 billion for the fourth quarter of 2011, or $.69 per diluted common share, compared with $974 million, or $.49 per diluted common share, for the fourth quarter of 2010. Return on average assets and return on average common equity were 1.62
percent and 16.8 percent, respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2011, compared with returns of 1.31 percent and 13.7 percent, respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2010. Significant items in the fourth quarter 2011 that impact the comparison of
results included the $263 million merchant settlement gain, the $130 million expense accrual related to mortgage servicing matters, a provision for credit losses less than net charge-offs by $125 million and net securities losses of $9 million.
Included in the fourth quarter 2010 results were the $103 million ($41 million after tax) Nuveen gain, a provision for credit losses less than net charge-offs by $25 million and net securities losses of $14 million.   
  Total net revenue, on a taxable-equivalent basis for the fourth quarter of 2011, was $383 million (8.1 percent) higher than
the fourth quarter of 2010, reflecting a 7.0 percent increase in net interest income and a 9.4 percent increase in   

total noninterest income. The increase in net interest income from 2010 was largely the result of an increase in average earning assets and continued growth in lower cost core deposit funding.
Noninterest income increased over a year ago, primarily due to higher mortgage banking revenue, deposit service charges, merchant processing revenue, commercial products revenue and the impact of the merchant settlement gain, partially offset by a
reduction in debit card interchange fees as a result of recent legislation.      Fourth quarter 2011 net interest income, on a
taxable-equivalent basis, was $2.7 billion, compared with $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010. The $174 million (7.0 percent) increase was principally the result of growth in average earning assets and lower cost core
deposit funding. Average earning assets for the fourth quarter of 2011 increased over the fourth quarter of 2010 by $35.3 billion (13.6 percent), driven by increases of $19.0 billion (38.2 percent) in investment securities,
$11.6 billion (5.9 percent) in loans and $6.3 billion (95.4 percent) in other earning assets, which primarily reflected an increase in cash balances held at the Federal Reserve. The net interest margin in the fourth quarter of 2011
was 3.60 percent, compared with 3.83 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010, reflecting higher planned balances in investment securities held for liquidity purposes and growth in cash balances held at the Federal Reserve.   
  Noninterest income in the fourth quarter of 2011 was $2.4 billion, compared with $2.2 billion in the same period of 2010, an
increase of $209 million (9.4 percent). The increase was primarily due to a $151 million (51.2 percent) increase in other income, which was higher due to the merchant settlement gain, partially offset by the impact of the Nuveen gain
recorded in the fourth quarter of 2010. Deposit service charges increased $27 million (18.8 percent), reflecting product redesign initiatives, as well as higher transaction volume and account growth. Commercial products revenue was $12 million
(5.8 percent) higher, a result of higher syndication fees and other commercial loan fees. Mortgage banking revenue increased $53 million (21.2 percent) over the fourth quarter of 2010, principally due to higher origination and sales revenue.
Offsetting these positive variances was a $9 million (1.1 percent) decrease in payments-related revenue as an increase in merchant processing revenue, primarily due to increased volume, new business initiatives including new fees for required tax
reporting, legislative-mitigation efforts and the reversal of an accrual for a revenue sharing agreement termination, was more than offset by a decline in credit and debit card revenue due to the impact of legislative-related changes to debit card
interchange fees. Trust and investment management fees decreased $37 million (13.1 percent), primarily due to the sale of the Company s proprietary long-term mutual fund business to Nuveen Investments at the end of the fourth quarter of 2010
and money market investment fee waivers. This decline was partially offset by the positive impact of the securitization trust administration acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2010 and improved market conditions.   
  Noninterest expense was $2.7 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011, an increase of $211 million (8.5 percent) over the
fourth quarter of 2010. The increase was principally due to the $130 million accrual for mortgage servicing matters in other expense, as well as increased compensation, employee benefits, net occupancy and equipment expense, and professional
services expense, partially offset by decreases in other intangibles expense. Compensation and employee benefits expense increased $58 million (5.8 percent) and $31 million (18.1 percent), respectively. Compensation expense increased
primarily as a result of an increase in staffing related to branch expansion and other business initiatives, in addition to merit increases. Employee benefits expense increased due to higher pension costs and the impact of additional staffing. Net
occupancy and equipment expense increased $12 million (5.1 percent), largely due to business expansion and technology initiatives. Professional services expense was $34 million (35.1 percent) higher due to mortgage
servicing-related projects. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in other intangibles expense of $15 million (16.9 percent), due to the reduction or completion of the amortization of certain intangibles, and lower costs
related to insurance and litigation.      The provision for credit losses for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $497 million, a
decrease of $415 million (45.5 percent) from the same period of 2010. Net charge-offs decreased $315 million (33.6 percent) in the fourth quarter of 2011, compared with the fourth quarter of 2010, principally due to improvement
in the commercial, commercial real estate and credit card portfolios. The provision for credit losses was lower than net charge-offs by $125 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, compared with $25 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. Given the
current economic conditions, the Company expects the level of net charge-offs to decrease modestly and the level of nonperforming assets to trend lower in the first quarter of 2012.   
  The provision for income taxes for the fourth quarter of 2011 resulted in an effective tax rate of 28.4 percent, compared with an
effective tax rate of 24.8 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. The increase in the effective rate for the fourth quarter of 2011, compared with the same period of the prior year, principally reflected the marginal impact of higher pre-tax
earnings year-over-year.        Line of Business Financial Review        The Company s major lines of business are Wholesale Banking and Commercial Real Estate, Consumer and Small Business Banking, Wealth Management and Securities Services, Payment Services, and Treasury
and Corporate Support. These operating segments are components of the Company about which financial information is prepared and   

is evaluated regularly by management in deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance.         Basis for Financial Presentation    Business line results are derived from the Company s
business unit profitability reporting systems by specifically attributing managed balance sheet assets, deposits and other liabilities and their related income or expense. Goodwill and other intangible assets are assigned to the lines of business
based on the mix of business of the acquired entity. Within the Company, capital levels are evaluated and managed centrally; however, capital is allocated to the operating segments to support evaluation of business performance. Business lines are
allocated capital on a risk-adjusted basis considering economic and regulatory capital requirements. Generally, the determination of the amount of capital allocated to each business line includes credit and operational capital allocations following
a Basel II regulatory framework. Interest income and expense is determined based on the assets and liabilities managed by the business line. Because funding and asset liability management is a central function, funds transfer-pricing
methodologies are utilized to allocate a cost of funds used or credit for funds provided to all business line assets and liabilities, respectively, using a matched funding concept. Also, each business unit is allocated the taxable-equivalent benefit
of tax-exempt products. The residual effect on net interest income of asset/liability management activities is included in Treasury and Corporate Support. Noninterest income and expenses directly managed by each business line, including fees,
service charges, salaries and benefits, and other direct revenues and costs are accounted for within each segment s financial results in a manner similar to the consolidated financial statements.   

TABLE 24  
          
    Line of Business Financial Performance           

*   
   Not meaningful      

Occupancy costs are allocated based on utilization of facilities by the lines of business. Generally, operating losses are charged to the line of business when the loss event is realized in a
manner similar to a loan charge-off. Noninterest expenses incurred by centrally managed operations or business lines that directly support another business line s operations are charged to the applicable business line based on its utilization
of those services, primarily measured by the volume of customer activities, number of employees or other relevant factors. These allocated expenses are reported as net shared services expense within noninterest expense. Certain activities that do
not directly support the operations of the lines of business or for which the lines of business are not considered financially accountable in evaluating their performance are not charged to the lines of business. The income or expenses associated
with these corporate activities is reported within the Treasury and Corporate Support line of business. Income taxes are assessed to each line of business at a standard tax rate with the residual tax expense or benefit to arrive at the consolidated
effective tax rate included in Treasury and Corporate Support.      Designations, assignments and allocations change from time to
time as management systems are enhanced, methods of evaluating performance or product lines change or business segments are realigned to better respond to the Company s diverse customer base. During 2011, certain organization and methodology
changes were made and, accordingly, 2010 results were restated and presented on a comparable basis.         Wholesale Banking and Commercial Real Estate    Wholesale Banking and Commercial Real Estate offers lending, equipment finance and small-ticket leasing,
depository,                 

treasury management, capital markets, foreign exchange, international trade services and other financial services to middle market, large corporate, commercial real estate, financial institution
and public sector clients. Wholesale Banking and Commercial Real Estate contributed $1.0 billion of the Company s net income in 2011, or an increase of $632 million compared with 2010. The increase was primarily driven by lower provision for
credit losses and higher net revenue, partially offset by higher noninterest expense.      Total net revenue increased
$216 million (6.9 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010. Net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, increased $119 million (5.9 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010, driven by higher average loan and deposit balances
and an increase in loan fees, partially offset by the impact of declining rates on the margin benefit from deposits. Total noninterest income increased $97 million (8.6 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010. The increase was primarily due to
growth in commercial products revenue, including syndication and other capital markets fees, commercial leasing, foreign exchange and international trade revenue, and commercial loan fees. In addition, other revenue increased due to higher equity
investment and customer-related derivative revenue.      Total noninterest expense increased $54 million (4.4 percent) in
2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to higher total compensation and employee benefits expense, and increased net shared services costs. The provision for credit losses decreased $831 million (66.2 percent) in 2011, compared with
2010. The favorable change was primarily due to lower net charge-offs. Nonperforming assets were $979 million at December 31, 2011, compared with $1.6 billion at December 31, 2010. Nonperforming assets as a percentage of period-end
loans were 1.58 percent at December 31, 2011, compared with 2.87 percent at December 31, 2010. Refer to the  Corporate Risk Profile  section for further information on factors impacting the credit quality of the loan
portfolios.         Consumer and Small Business Banking    Consumer and Small Business Banking delivers products and services through banking offices, telephone servicing and sales, on-line services, direct mail, ATM processing and over mobile devices. It
encompasses community banking, metropolitan banking, in-store banking, small business banking, consumer lending, mortgage banking, consumer finance, workplace banking, student banking and 24-hour banking. Consumer and Small Business Banking
contributed $842 million of the Company s net income in 2011, or an increase of $148 million (21.3 percent), compared with 2010. Within Consumer and Small Business Banking, the retail banking division contributed $340 million of
the total net income in 2011, or an increase of $239 million over the prior year. Mortgage banking contributed $502 million of the business line s net income in 2011, or a decrease of $91 million (15.3 percent) from the
prior year.      Total net revenue increased $192 million (2.7 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010. Net interest
income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, increased $193 million (4.4 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010. The year-over-year increase in net interest income was primarily due to higher average loan and deposit balances and improved
loan yields, partially offset by the impact of a decline in the margin benefit from deposits. Total noninterest income was essentially unchanged in 2011, compared with 2010, the result of higher retail product revenue, due to improvement in retail
lease end of term results, and higher ATM processing servicing fees, offset by year-over-year reductions in mortgage banking revenue, principally due to lower mortgage loan production, and lower deposit service charges, principally due to the impact
of 2010 legislative and pricing changes.      Total noninterest expense increased $263 million (6.0 percent) in 2011, compared
with 2010. The increase reflected higher total compensation and employee benefits expense, mortgage servicing-related professional services projects, net shared services costs and net occupancy and equipment expenses related to business expansion,
partially offset by lower other intangibles expense.      The provision for credit losses decreased $300 million (17.7
percent) in 2011, compared with 2010, due to lower net charge-offs and a reduction in the reserve allocation. As a percentage of average loans outstanding, net charge-offs decreased to 1.20 percent in 2011, compared with 1.50 percent in 2010.
Nonperforming assets were $1.4 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $1.5 billion at December 31, 2010. Nonperforming assets as a percentage of period-end loans were 1.21 percent at December 31, 2011, compared with
1.44 percent at December 31, 2010. Refer to the  Corporate Risk Profile  section for further information on factors impacting the credit quality of the loan portfolios.   
  During 2011, the Company s two primary banking subsidiaries, U.S. Bank National Association and U.S. Bank National
Association ND, entered into a Consent Order with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency regarding residential mortgage servicing and foreclosure processes. The Company also entered into a related Consent Order with the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System. The Consent Orders were the result of an interagency horizontal review of the foreclosure practices of the 14 largest mortgage servicers in the United States.   
  The Consent Orders mandate certain changes to the Company s mortgage servicing and foreclosure processes. Specifically, the Consent
Orders require the Company, U.S. Bank National Association and U.S. Bank National Association ND to, among other things, implement a comprehensive action plan setting forth the steps necessary to ensure residential mortgage servicing and
foreclosure processes are conducted in accordance with the Consent   

Orders; develop and implement other plans and programs to enhance residential mortgage servicing and foreclosure processes; retain an independent consultant to conduct a review of certain
residential mortgage foreclosure actions and to remediate errors or deficiencies identified by the consultant; and oversee compliance with the Consent Orders and the new plans and programs. The Company has made significant progress in complying with
these requirements.      The Company has long been committed to sound modification and foreclosure practices and is committed to
revising its practices where necessary to satisfy the requirements of the Consent Orders. The Company does not believe that the resolution of any outstanding issues will materially affect its financial position, results of operations, or ability to
conduct normal business activities.         Wealth Management and Securities Services    Wealth Management and Securities Services provides private banking, financial advisory services, investment management, retail brokerage services, insurance, trust, custody and fund servicing through
five businesses: Wealth Management, Corporate Trust Services, U.S. Bancorp Asset Management, Institutional Trust   Custody and Fund Services. Wealth Management and Securities Services contributed $184 million of the
Company s net income in 2011, a decrease of $39 million (17.5 percent), compared with 2010.      Total net revenue increased
$5 million (.4 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010. Net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, increased $65 million (22.2 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010. The increase in net interest income was primarily due to higher
average deposit balances, including the impact of the securitization trust administration acquisition. Total noninterest income decreased $60 million (5.4 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010. Trust and investment management fees declined,
primarily due to the sale of the Company s proprietary long-term mutual fund business in the fourth quarter of 2010 and money market investment fee waivers due to the low interest rate environment, partially offset by the impact of the fourth
quarter 2010 securitization trust administration acquisition and improved market conditions during 2011. Additionally, investment product fees were higher due to increased sales volumes.   
  Total noninterest expense increased $81 million (7.8 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010. The increase in noninterest expense was
primarily due to higher total compensation and employee benefits expense, higher net shared services expense and the impact of the securitization trust administration acquisition, partially offset by reductions in other intangibles expense and
expenses related to the Company s proprietary long-term mutual fund business that was sold in late 2010.         Payment Services    Payment Services includes consumer and business credit cards, stored-value cards, debit cards, corporate and purchasing card
services, consumer lines of credit and merchant processing. Payment Services contributed $1.3 billion of the Company s net income in 2011, or an increase of $552 million (71.1 percent) compared with 2010. The increase was primarily due to
lower provision for credit losses and higher total net revenue, partially offset by an increase in total noninterest expense.   
  Total net revenue increased $108 million (2.4 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010. Net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent
basis, increased $11 million (.8 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to higher loan yields, partially offset by lower retail credit card average loan balances. Noninterest income increased $97 million (3.1 percent) in 2011,
compared with 2010, primarily due to increased transaction volumes and new business initiatives, partially offset by a decline in credit and debit card revenue due to the impact of legislative-related changes to debit card interchange fees.
     Total noninterest expense increased $48 million (2.5 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010, due to higher total compensation,
employee benefits and processing costs, partially offset by lower other intangibles expense. The provision for credit losses decreased $828 million (62.0 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to lower net charge-offs and a reduction in
the reserve allocation due to improved loss rates. As a percentage of average loans outstanding, net charge-offs were 4.47 percent in 2011, compared with 6.32 percent in 2010.         Treasury and Corporate Support    Treasury and Corporate Support includes the Company s
investment portfolios, most covered commercial and commercial real estate loans and related other real estate owned, funding, capital management, asset securitization, interest rate risk management, the net effect of transfer pricing related to
average balances and the residual aggregate of those expenses associated with corporate activities that are managed on a consolidated basis. Treasury and Corporate Support recorded net income of $1.5 billion in 2011, compared with $1.2 billion
in 2010.      Total net revenue increased $439 million (22.4 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010. Net interest income, on a
taxable-equivalent basis, increased $172 million (9.9 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010, reflecting the impact of the planned growth in the investment portfolio, wholesale funding decisions and the Company s asset/liability position. Total
noninterest income increased $267 million in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to the 2011 merchant settlement and FCB gains, and lower net securities losses, partially offset by the 2010 Nuveen gain.   

Total noninterest expense increased $82 million (9.6 percent) in 2011, compared with 2010,
due to the 2011 accrual for mortgage servicing matters and increased compensation and employee benefits expense, partially offset by a favorable variance in net shared services expense and lower litigation and insurance costs.   
  Income taxes are assessed to each line of business at a managerial tax rate of 36.4 percent with the residual tax expense or benefit to
arrive at the consolidated effective tax rate included in Treasury and Corporate Support.        Non-GAAP Financial Measures     
  In addition to capital ratios defined by banking regulators, the Company considers various other measures when evaluating capital utilization and
adequacy, including:       

Tangible common equity to tangible assets,          

Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets using Basel I definition,      

Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets using anticipated Basel III definition, and      

Tangible common equity to risk-weighted assets using Basel I definition.               The following table shows the Company s calculation of these Non-GAAP financial measures:   

Note:   
   Anticipated Basel III definitions reflect adjustments for changes to the related elements as proposed in December 2010 by regulatory authorities.      

These measures are viewed by management as useful additional methods of reflecting the level
of capital available to withstand unexpected market or economic conditions. Additionally, presentation of these measures allows investors, analysts and banking regulators to assess the Company s capital position relative to other financial
services companies. Regulatory assessments of the Company s financial stress projections are influenced by measures using anticipated Basel III definitions. These measures differ from capital ratios defined by current banking regulations
principally in that the numerator excludes trust preferred securities and preferred stock, the nature and extent of which varies among different financial services companies. These measures are not defined in generally accepted accounting principles
( GAAP ) or federal banking regulations. As a result, these measures disclosed by the Company may be considered non-GAAP financial measures.      Because there are no standardized definitions for these measures, the Company s calculation methods may differ from those used by other financial services companies. Also, there may be limits in the
usefulness of these measures to investors. As a result, the Company encourages readers to consider the consolidated financial statements and other financial information contained in this report in their entirety, and not to rely on any single
financial measure.        Accounting Changes        Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements discusses accounting standards adopted in 2011, as well as accounting standards recently issued but not yet required to be adopted and the
expected impact of these changes in accounting standards. To the extent the adoption of new accounting standards materially affects the Company s financial condition or results of operations, the impacts are discussed in the applicable
section(s) of the Management s Discussion and Analysis and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.        Critical Accounting Policies
       The accounting and reporting policies of the Company comply with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and
conform to general practices within the banking industry. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions. The Company s financial position and results of operations can be
affected by these estimates and assumptions, which are integral to understanding the Company s financial statements. Critical accounting policies are those policies management believes are the most important to the portrayal of the
Company s financial condition and results, and require management to make estimates that are difficult, subjective or complex. Most accounting policies are not considered by management to be critical accounting policies. Several factors are
considered in determining whether or not a policy is critical in the preparation of financial statements. These factors include, among other things, whether the estimates are significant to the financial statements, the nature of the estimates, the
ability to readily validate the estimates with other information (including third-parties sources or available prices), and sensitivity of the estimates to changes in economic conditions and whether alternative accounting methods may be utilized
under GAAP. Management has discussed the development and the selection of critical accounting policies with the Company s Audit Committee.      Significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Those policies considered to be critical accounting policies are described below.
        Allowance for Credit Losses   
The allowance for credit losses is established to provide for probable losses incurred in the Company s credit portfolio. The methods utilized to estimate the allowance for credit losses, key assumptions and quantitative and qualitative
information considered by management in determining the appropriate allowance for credit losses are discussed in the  Credit Risk Management  section.      Management s evaluation of the appropriate allowance for credit losses is often the most critical of all the accounting estimates for a banking institution. It is an inherently subjective process
impacted by many factors as discussed throughout the Management s Discussion and Analysis section of the Annual Report. Although risk management practices, methodologies and other tools are utilized to determine each element of the allowance,
degrees of imprecision exist in these measurement tools due in part to subjective judgments involved and an inherent lagging of credit quality measurements relative to the stage of the business cycle. Even determining the stage of the business cycle
is highly subjective. As discussed in the  Analysis and Determination of Allowance for Credit Losses  section, management considers the effect of imprecision and many other factors in determining the allowance for credit losses. If not
considered, incurred losses in the portfolio related to imprecision and other subjective factors could have a dramatic adverse impact on the liquidity and financial viability of a bank.   
  Given the many subjective factors affecting the credit portfolio, changes in the allowance for credit losses may not directly coincide
with changes in the risk ratings of the credit portfolio reflected in the risk rating process. This is in part due to the timing of the risk rating process in relation to changes in the business cycle, the exposure and mix of loans within risk
rating categories, levels of nonperforming loans and the timing of charge-offs and recoveries. For example, the amount of loans within specific risk ratings may change, providing a leading indicator of improving credit quality, while nonperforming
loans and net charge-offs continue at   

elevated levels. Also, inherent loss ratios, determined through migration analysis and historical loss performance over the estimated business cycle of a loan, may not change to the same degree
as net charge-offs. Because risk ratings and inherent loss ratios primarily drive the allowance specifically allocated to commercial lending segment loans, the amount of the allowance might decline; however, the degree of change differs somewhat
from the level of changes in nonperforming loans and net charge-offs. Also, management would maintain an appropriate allowance for credit losses by increasing the allowance during periods of economic uncertainty or changes in the business cycle.
     Some factors considered in determining the appropriate allowance for credit losses are quantifiable while other factors
require qualitative judgment. Management conducts an analysis with respect to the accuracy of risk ratings and the volatility of inherent losses, and utilizes this analysis along with qualitative factors, including uncertainty in the economy from
changes in unemployment rates, the level of bankruptcies and concentration risks, including risks associated with the weakened housing market and highly leveraged enterprise-value credits, in determining the overall level of the allowance for credit
losses. The Company s determination of the allowance for commercial lending segment loans is sensitive to the assigned credit risk ratings and inherent loss rates at December 31, 2011. In the event that 10 percent of period ending
loan balances (including unfunded commitments) within each risk category of this segment of the loan portfolio experienced downgrades of two risk categories, the allowance for credit losses would increase by approximately $277 million at
December 31, 2011. The Company believes the allowance for credit losses appropriately considers the imprecision in estimating credit losses based on credit risk ratings and inherent loss rates but actual losses may differ from those estimates.
In the event that inherent loss or estimated loss rates for commercial lending segment loans increased by 10 percent, the allowance for credit losses would increase by approximately $171 million at December 31, 2011. The
Company s determination of the allowance for consumer lending segment loans is sensitive to changes in estimated loss rates. In the event that estimated loss rates for this segment of the loan portfolio increased by 10 percent, the
allowance for credit losses would increase by approximately $169 million at December 31, 2011. Because several quantitative and qualitative factors are considered in determining the allowance for credit losses, these sensitivity analyses
do not necessarily reflect the nature and extent of future changes in the allowance for credit losses. They are intended to provide insights into the impact of adverse changes in risk rating and inherent losses and do not imply any expectation of
future deterioration in the risk rating or loss rates. Given current processes employed by the Company, management believes the risk ratings and inherent loss rates currently assigned are appropriate. It is possible that others, given the same
information, may at any point in time reach different reasonable conclusions that could be significant to the Company s financial statements. Refer to the  Analysis and Determination of the Allowance for Credit Losses  section for
further information.         Fair Value Estimates    A portion of the Company s assets and liabilities are carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, with changes in fair value recorded either through earnings or other comprehensive
income (loss) in accordance with applicable accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These include all of the Company s available-for-sale securities, derivatives and other trading instruments, MSRs and certain mortgage
loans held for sale. The estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower-of-cost-or-fair value. The determination of fair value is important for certain other assets that are periodically evaluated
for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill and other intangible assets, assets acquired in business combinations, impaired loans, OREO and other repossessed assets.   
  Fair value is generally defined as the exit price at which an asset or liability could be exchanged in a current transaction between
willing, unrelated parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. Fair value is based on quoted market prices in an active market, or if market prices are not available, is estimated using models employing techniques such as matrix pricing or
discounting expected cash flows. The significant assumptions used in the models, which include assumptions for interest rates, discount rates, prepayments and credit losses, are independently verified against observable market data where possible.
Where observable market data is not available, the estimate of fair value becomes more subjective and involves a high degree of judgment. In this circumstance, fair value is estimated based on management s judgment regarding the value that
market participants would assign to the asset or liability. This valuation process takes into consideration factors such as market illiquidity. Imprecision in estimating these factors can impact the amount recorded on the balance sheet for a
particular asset or liability with related impacts to earnings or other comprehensive income (loss).      When available, trading
and available-for-sale securities are valued based on quoted market prices. However, certain securities are traded less actively and therefore, may not be able to be valued based on quoted market prices. The determination of fair value may require
benchmarking to similar instruments or performing a discounted cash flow analysis using estimates of future cash flows and prepayment, interest and default rates. An example is non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities. For more information

on investment securities, refer to Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      As few derivative contracts are listed on an exchange, the majority of the Company s derivative positions are valued using valuation techniques that use readily observable market inputs. Certain
derivatives, however, must be valued using techniques that include unobservable inputs. For these instruments, the significant assumptions must be estimated and therefore, are subject to judgment. Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements provides a summary of the Company s derivative positions.      Refer to Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information regarding estimations of fair value.        Purchased
Loans and Related Indemnification Assets      In accordance with applicable authoritative accounting guidance effective for the
Company beginning January 1, 2009, all purchased loans and related indemnification assets arising from loss-sharing arrangements with FDIC are recorded at fair value at date of purchase. The initial valuation of these loans and the related
indemnification assets requires management to make subjective judgments concerning estimates about how the acquired loans will perform in the future using valuation methods including discounted cash flow analysis and independent third party
appraisals. Factors that may significantly affect the initial valuation include, among others, market-based and industry data related to expected changes in interest rates, assumptions related to probability and severity of credit losses, estimated
timing of credit losses including the foreclosure and liquidation of collateral, expected prepayment rates, required or anticipated loan modifications, unfunded loan commitments, the specific terms and provisions of any loss sharing agreements, and
specific industry and market conditions that may impact discount rates and independent third party appraisals.       On an
ongoing basis, the accounting for purchased loans and related indemnification assets follows applicable authoritative accounting guidance for purchased non-impaired loans and purchased impaired loans. Refer to Note 1 and Note 6 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In addition, refer to the  Analysis and Determination of the Allowance for Credit Losses  section for information on the determination of the required allowance for
credit losses, if any, for these loans.         Mortgage Servicing Rights    MSRs are capitalized as separate assets when loans are sold and servicing is retained, or may be purchased from others. MSRs are initially recorded at fair value and remeasured at each subsequent
reporting date. Because MSRs do not trade in an active market with readily observable prices, the Company determines the fair value by estimating the present value of the asset s future cash flows utilizing market-based prepayment rates,
discount rates, and other assumptions validated through comparison to trade information, industry surveys and independent third party valuations. Changes in the fair value of MSRs are recorded in earnings during the period in which they occur. Risks
inherent in the MSRs  valuation include higher than expected prepayment rates and/or delayed receipt of cash flows. The Company may utilize derivatives, including interest rate swaps, forward commitments to buy TBAs, and futures and options
contracts, to mitigate the valuation risk. The estimated sensitivity to changes in interest rates of the fair value of the MSRs portfolio and the related derivative instruments at December 31, 2011, to an immediate 25 and 50 bps downward
movement in interest rates would be an increase of approximately $6 million and $21 million, respectively. An upward movement in interest rates at December 31, 2011, of 25 and 50 bps would have no impact to and increase the value
of the MSRs and related derivative instruments by approximately $6 million, respectively. Refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding MSRs.   
     Goodwill and Other Intangibles    The
Company records all assets and liabilities acquired in purchase acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangibles, at fair value. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject, at a minimum, to annual tests for impairment. In certain situations,
interim impairment tests may be required if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting segment below its carrying amount. Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated
useful lives using straight-line and accelerated methods and are subject to impairment if events or circumstances indicate a possible inability to realize the carrying amount.      The initial recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets and subsequent impairment analysis require management to make subjective judgments concerning estimates of how the acquired assets will
perform in the future using valuation methods including discounted cash flow analysis. Additionally, estimated cash flows may extend beyond ten years and, by their nature, are difficult to determine over an extended timeframe. Events and factors
that may significantly affect the estimates include, among others, competitive forces, customer behaviors and attrition, changes in revenue growth trends, cost structures, technology, changes in discount rates and specific industry and market
conditions. In determining the reasonableness of cash flow estimates, the Company reviews historical performance of the underlying assets or similar assets in an effort to assess and validate assumptions utilized in its estimates.   

In assessing the fair value of reporting units, the Company may consider the stage of the
current business cycle and potential changes in market conditions in estimating the timing and extent of future cash flows. Also, management often utilizes other information to validate the reasonableness of its valuations, including public market
comparables, and multiples of recent mergers and acquisitions of similar businesses. Valuation multiples may be based on revenue, price-to-earnings and tangible capital ratios of comparable public companies and business segments. These multiples may
be adjusted to consider competitive differences, including size, operating leverage and other factors. The carrying amount of a reporting unit is determined based on the capital required to support the reporting unit s activities, including its
tangible and intangible assets. The determination of a reporting unit s capital allocation requires management judgment and considers many factors, including the regulatory capital regulations and capital characteristics of comparable public
companies in relevant industry sectors. In certain circumstances, management will engage a third party to independently validate its assessment of the fair value of its reporting units.   
  The Company s annual assessment of potential goodwill impairment was completed during the second quarter of 2011. Based on the
results of this assessment, no goodwill impairment was recognized. Because of current economic conditions the Company continues to monitor goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment indicators throughout the year. The Company does not
expect recent legislation will result in goodwill impairment.         Income Taxes    The Company estimates income tax expense based on amounts expected to be owed to various tax jurisdictions. Currently, the Company files tax returns in approximately 235 federal, state and local domestic
jurisdictions and 14 foreign jurisdictions. The estimated income tax expense is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Accrued taxes represent the net estimated amount due to or to be received from taxing jurisdictions either currently or
in the future and are reported in other assets or other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. In estimating accrued taxes, the Company assesses the relative merits and risks of the appropriate tax treatment considering statutory, judicial
and regulatory guidance in the context of the tax position. Because of the complexity of tax laws and regulations, interpretation can be difficult and subject to legal judgment given specific facts and circumstances. It is possible that others,
given the same information, may at any point in time reach different reasonable conclusions regarding the estimated amounts of accrued taxes.      Changes in the estimate of accrued taxes occur periodically due to changes in tax rates, interpretations of tax laws, the status of examinations being conducted by various taxing authorities, and newly
enacted statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance that impacts the relative merits and risks of tax positions. These changes, when they occur, affect accrued taxes and can be significant to the operating results of the Company. Refer to
Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding income taxes.        Controls and Procedures
       Under the supervision and with the participation of the Company s management, including its principal executive officer and
principal financial officer, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the
 Exchange Act )). Based upon this evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, the Company s disclosure controls and procedures
were effective.      During the most recently completed fiscal quarter, there was no change made in the Company s internal
controls over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.
     The annual report of the Company s management on internal control over financial reporting is provided on page 67.
The attestation report of Ernst   Young LLP, the Company s independent accountants, regarding the Company s internal control over financial reporting is provided on page 69.   

Report of Management          
  Responsibility for the financial statements and other information presented throughout this Annual Report rests with the management of U.S. Bancorp.
The Company believes the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and present the substance of transactions based on the circumstances and management s
best estimates and judgment.      In meeting its responsibilities for the reliability of the financial statements, management is responsible for
establishing and maintaining an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting as defined by Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s system of internal control is designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of publicly filed financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.   
  To test compliance, the Company carries out an extensive audit program. This program includes a review for compliance with written policies and procedures
and a comprehensive review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal control. Although control procedures are designed and tested, it must be recognized that there are limits inherent in all systems of internal control and,
therefore, errors and irregularities may nevertheless occur. Also, estimates and judgments are required to assess and balance the relative cost and expected benefits of the controls. Projection of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      The Board of Directors of the Company has an Audit Committee composed of directors who are independent of U.S. Bancorp. The Audit Committee meets periodically with management, the internal auditors
and the independent accountants to consider audit results and to discuss internal accounting control, auditing and financial reporting matters.   
  Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s system of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making
this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in its Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Based on our assessment and those criteria, management believes the Company
designed and maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011.      The Company s independent
accountants, Ernst   Young LLP, have been engaged to render an independent professional opinion on the financial statements and issue an attestation report on the Company s internal control over financial reporting. Their opinion on
the financial statements appearing on page 68 and their attestation on internal control over financial reporting appearing on page 69 are based on procedures conducted in accordance with auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States).   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Consolidated Financial Statements    
        The Board of Directors and Shareholders of U.S. Bancorp:   
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of U.S. Bancorp as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of U.S. Bancorp s management. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of U.S. Bancorp at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.      We also have
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), U.S. Bancorp s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal
Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 23, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   

Minneapolis, Minnesota      February 23, 2012   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
            The Board of Directors and Shareholders of U.S. Bancorp:
     We have audited U.S. Bancorp s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established
in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). U.S. Bancorp s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control
over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report of Management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on U.S. Bancorp s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  In our opinion, U.S. Bancorp maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011,
based on the COSO criteria .       We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the consolidated balance sheets of U.S. Bancorp as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2011 and our report dated February 23, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.     

Minneapolis, Minnesota      February 23, 2012   

U.S. Bancorp    
    Consolidated Balance Sheet    

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    

U.S. Bancorp    
    Consolidated Statement of Income    

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    

U.S. Bancorp    
    Consolidated Statement of Shareholders  Equity    

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    

U.S. Bancorp    
    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows    

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          

NOTE 1  
          
    Significant Accounting Policies       
   U.S. Bancorp is a multi-state financial services holding company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. U.S. Bancorp and
its subsidiaries (the  Company ) provide a full range of financial services, including lending and depository services through banking offices principally in the Midwest and West regions of the United States. The Company also engages in
credit card, merchant, and ATM processing, mortgage banking, insurance, trust and investment management, brokerage, and leasing activities principally in domestic markets.   
       Basis of Presentation     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and all variable interest entities ( VIEs ) for which the Company has both the power to direct the
activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE s economic performance, and the obligation to absorb losses or right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Consolidation eliminates all
significant intercompany accounts and transactions. Certain items in prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.   

       Uses of Estimates     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual experience could differ from those estimates.   

     Business Segments        Within the Company, financial performance is measured by major lines of business based on the products and services provided to customers through its distribution channels. The Company has five reportable
operating segments:          Wholesale Banking and Commercial Real Estate     Wholesale Banking and Commercial Real Estate offers lending, equipment finance and small-ticket leasing, depository, treasury management, capital markets, foreign exchange, international trade services
and other financial services to middle market, large corporate, commercial real estate, financial institution and public sector clients.   
      Consumer and Small Business
Banking     Consumer and Small Business Banking delivers products and services through banking offices, telephone servicing and sales, on-line services, direct mail, ATM processing and
over mobile devices. It encompasses community banking, metropolitan banking, in-store banking, small business banking, consumer lending, mortgage banking, consumer finance, workplace banking, student banking and 24-hour banking.   
      Wealth Management and Securities Services     Wealth Management and Securities Services provides private banking, financial advisory services, investment management, retail brokerage services, insurance, trust, custody and mutual fund servicing
through five businesses: Wealth Management, Corporate Trust Services, U.S. Bancorp Asset Management, Institutional Trust   Custody and Fund Services.          Payment Services     Payment Services includes consumer and business credit cards,
stored-value cards, debit cards, corporate and purchasing card services, consumer lines of credit and merchant processing.          Treasury and Corporate Support     Treasury and Corporate Support includes the Company s investment portfolios, most covered commercial and
commercial real estate loans and related other real estate ( OREO ), funding, capital management, asset securitization, interest rate risk management, the net effect of transfer pricing related to average balances and the residual
aggregate of those expenses associated with corporate activities that are managed on a consolidated basis.          Segment Results     Accounting policies for the lines of business are the same as those used in preparation of the consolidated financial
statements with respect to activities specifically attributable to each business line. However, the preparation of business line results requires management to allocate funding costs and benefits, expenses and other financial elements to each line
of business. For details of these methodologies and segment results, see  Basis for Financial Presentation  and Table 24  Line of Business Financial Performance  included in Management s Discussion and Analysis which is
incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

     Securities        Realized gains or losses on securities are determined on a trade date basis based on the specific amortized cost of the investments sold.          Trading Securities     Debt and equity securities held for resale are classified as
trading securities and are included in other assets and reported at fair value. Changes in fair value and realized gains or losses are reported in noninterest income.          Available-for-sale Securities     These securities are not trading securities but may be
sold before maturity in response to changes in the Company s interest rate risk profile, funding needs, demand for collateralized deposits by public entities or other reasons. Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with
unrealized net gains or losses reported within other comprehensive income (loss) in shareholders  equity. Declines in fair value related to other-than-temporary impairment, if any, are reported in noninterest income.   

Held-to-maturity Securities     Debt securities for which the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are reported at historical cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts. Declines in
fair value related to other-than-temporary impairment, if any, are reported in noninterest income.          Securities Purchased Under Agreements to Resell and Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase     Securities purchased under agreements to
resell and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are accounted for as collateralized financing transactions and are recorded at the amounts at which the securities were acquired or sold, plus accrued interest. The fair value of collateral
received is continually monitored and additional collateral is obtained or requested to be returned to the Company as deemed appropriate.   

     Equity Investments in Operating Entities     
  Equity investments in public entities in which the Company s ownership is less than 20 percent are accounted for as available-for-sale
securities and are carried at fair value. Similar investments in private entities are accounted for using the cost method. Investments in entities where the Company has a significant influence (generally between 20 percent and 50 percent
ownership) but does not control the entity are accounted for using the equity method. Investments in limited partnerships and limited liability companies where the Company s ownership interest is greater than 5 percent are accounted for
using the equity method. All equity investments are evaluated for impairment at least annually and more frequently if certain criteria are met.   

     Loans     
  The Company offers a broad array of lending products and categorizes its loan portfolio into three segments, which is the level at which it develops and
documents a systematic methodology to determine the allowance for credit losses. The Company s three loan portfolio segments are commercial lending, consumer lending and covered loans. The Company further disaggregates its loan portfolio
segments into various classes based on their underlying risk characteristics. The two classes within the commercial lending segment are commercial loans and commercial real estate loans. The three classes within consumer lending are residential
mortgages, credit card loans and other retail loans. The covered loan segment consists of only one class.      The Company s
accounting methods for loans differ depending on whether the loans are originated or purchased, and for purchased loans, whether the loans were acquired at a discount related to evidence of credit deterioration since date of origination.   
      Originated Loans Held for
Investment     Loans the Company originates as held for investment are reported at the principal amount outstanding, net of unearned income, net deferred loan fees or costs, and any
direct principal charge-offs.      Interest income is accrued on the unpaid principal balances as earned. Loan and commitment fees and certain
direct loan origination costs are deferred and recognized over the life of the loan and/or commitment period as yield adjustments.          Purchased Loans     All purchased loans (non-impaired and impaired) acquired after January 1, 2009 are initially measured at fair value as of
the acquisition date in accordance with applicable authoritative accounting guidance. Credit discounts are included in the determination of fair value. An allowance for credit losses is not recorded at the acquisition date for loans purchased after
January 1, 2009. In accordance with applicable authoritative accounting guidance, purchased non-impaired loans acquired in a business combination prior to January 1, 2009 were generally recorded at the predecessor s carrying value
including an allowance for credit losses.      In determining the acquisition date fair value of purchased impaired loans, and in
subsequent accounting, the Company generally aggregates purchased consumer loans and certain smaller balance commercial loans into pools of loans with common risk characteristics, while accounting for larger balance commercial loans individually.
Expected cash flows at the purchase date in excess of the fair value of loans are recorded as interest income over the life of the loans if the timing and amount of the future cash flows is reasonably estimable. Subsequent to the purchase date,
increases in cash flows over those expected at the purchase date are recognized as interest income prospectively. The present value of any decreases in expected cash flows after the purchase date is recognized by recording an allowance for credit
losses. Revolving loans, including lines of credit and credit cards loans, and leases are excluded from purchased impaired loans accounting.      For purchased loans acquired after January 1, 2009 that are not deemed impaired at acquisition, credit discounts representing the principal losses expected over the life of the loan are a component
of the initial fair value. Subsequent to the purchase date, the methods utilized to estimate the required allowance for credit losses for these loans is similar to originated loans; however, the Company records a provision for credit losses only
when the required allowance exceeds any remaining credit discounts. The remaining differences between the purchase price and the unpaid principal balance at the date of acquisition are recorded in interest income over the life of the loans.
         Covered Assets     Loans
covered under loss sharing or similar credit protection agreements with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) are reported in loans along with the related indemnification asset. Foreclosed real estate covered under similar
agreements is recorded in other assets. In accordance with applicable authoritative accounting guidance effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2009, all purchased loans and related indemnification assets are recorded at fair value at
date of purchase.          Commitments to Extend Credit     Unfunded residential mortgage loan commitments entered into in connection with mortgage banking activities intended to be held for sale are   

considered derivatives and recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in income. All other unfunded loan commitments are generally related to providing credit
facilities to customers of the Company and are not considered derivatives. For loans purchased after January 1, 2009, the fair value of the unfunded credit commitments is considered in the determination of the fair value of the loans recorded
at the date of acquisition. Reserves for credit exposure on all other unfunded credit commitments are recorded in other liabilities.          Allowance for Credit Losses     The allowance for credit losses reserves for probable and estimable losses incurred in the Company s loan and
lease portfolio, and includes certain amounts that do not represent loss exposure to the Company because those losses are recoverable under loss sharing agreements with the FDIC. The allowance for credit losses is increased through provisions
charged to operating earnings and reduced by net charge-offs. Management evaluates the allowance each quarter to ensure it appropriately reserves for incurred losses.      The allowance recorded for loans in the commercial lending segment is based on reviews of individual credit relationships and considers the migration analysis of commercial lending segment loans and
actual loss experience. The Company currently uses an 11 year period of historical losses in considering actual loss experience. This timeframe and the results of the analysis are evaluated quarterly to determine the appropriateness. The
allowance recorded for impaired loans greater than $5 million in the commercial lending segment is based on an individual loan analysis utilizing expected cash flows discounted using the original effective interest rate, the observable market
price, or the fair value of the collateral for collateral-dependent loans. The allowance recorded for all other commercial lending segment loans is determined on a homogenous pool basis and includes consideration of product mix, risk characteristics
of the portfolio, bankruptcy experience, and historical losses, adjusted for current trends. The Company also considers the impacts of any loan modifications made to commercial lending segment loans and any subsequent payment defaults to its
expectations of cash flows, principal balance, and current expectations about the borrower s ability to pay in determining the allowance for credit losses.      The allowance recorded for purchased impaired and Troubled Debt Restructuring ( TDR ) loans in the consumer lending segment is determined on a homogenous pool basis utilizing expected cash flows
discounted using the original effective interest rate of the pool. The allowance recorded for all other consumer lending segment loans is determined on a homogenous pool basis and includes consideration of product mix, risk characteristics of the
portfolio, bankruptcy experience, and historical losses, adjusted for current trends. The Company also considers any modifications made to consumer lending segment loans including the impacts of any subsequent payment defaults since modification in
determining the allowance for credit losses, such as borrower s ability to pay under the restructured terms, and the timing and amount of payments.      The allowance for covered segment loans is evaluated each quarter in a manner similar to that described for non-covered loans and represents any decreases in expected cash flows of those loans after the
acquisition date. The provision for credit losses for covered segment loans considers the indemnification provided by the FDIC.   
  In addition, subsequent payment defaults on loan modifications considered TDRs are considered in the underlying factors used in the
determination of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses. For each loan segment, the Company estimates future loan charge-offs through a variety of analysis, trends and underlying assumptions. With respect to the commercial lending
segment, TDRs may be collectively evaluated for impairment where observed performance history, including defaults, is a primary driver of the loss allocation. For commercial TDRs individually evaluated for impairment, attributes of the borrower are
the primary factors in determining the allowance for credit losses. However, incorporation of loss history is factored into the allowance methodology applied to this category of loans. With respect to the consumer lending segment, performance of the
portfolio, including defaults on TDRs, is considered when estimating future cash flows.      The Company s methodology for
determining the appropriate allowance for credit losses for all the loan segments also considers the imprecision inherent in the methodologies used. As a result, in addition to the amounts determined under the methodologies described above,
management also considers the potential impact of other qualitative factors which include, but are not limited to, economic factors; geographic and other concentration risks; delinquency and nonaccrual trends; current business conditions; changes in
lending policy, underwriting standards, internal review and other relevant business practices; and the regulatory environment. The consideration of these items results in adjustments to allowance amounts included in the Company s allowance for
credit losses for each of the above loan segments.      The Company also assesses the credit risk associated with off-balance sheet
loan commitments, letters of credit, and derivatives. Credit risk associated with derivatives is reflected in the fair values recorded for those positions. The liability for off-balance sheet credit exposure related to loan commitments and other
credit guarantees is included in other liabilities. Because business processes and credit risks associated with unfunded credit commitments are essentially the same as for loans, the Company utilizes similar processes to estimate its liability for
unfunded credit commitments.          Credit Quality     The quality of the Company s loan portfolios is assessed as a function of net credit losses, levels of nonperforming assets and delinquencies, and credit quality ratings as defined by the Company.

For all loan classes, loans are considered past due based on the number of days delinquent
except for monthly amortizing loans which are classified delinquent based upon the number of contractually required payments not made (for example, two missed payments is considered 30 days delinquent).   
  Commercial lending segment loans are placed on nonaccrual status when the collection of principal and interest has become 90 days
past due or is otherwise considered doubtful. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, unpaid accrued interest is reversed. Commercial lending segment loans are generally fully or partially charged down to the fair value of the collateral
securing the loan, less costs to sell, when the loan is considered uncollectible.      Consumer lending segment loans are generally
charged-off at a specific number of days or payments past due. Residential mortgages and other retail loans secured by 1-4 family properties are generally charged down to fair market value, less costs to sell, at 180 days past due, and placed
on nonaccrual status in instances where a partial charge-off occurs unless the loan is well secured and in the process of collection. Credit card loans continue to accrue interest until the account is charged off. Credit cards are charged off at
180 days past due. Other retail loans not secured by 1-4 family properties are charged-off at 120 days past due; and revolving consumer lines are charged off at 180 days past due. Similar to credit cards, other retail loans are
generally not placed on nonaccrual status because of the relative short period of time to charge-off. Certain retail customers having financial difficulties may have the terms of their credit card and other loan agreements modified to require only
principal payments and, as such, are reported as nonaccrual.      For all loan classes, interest payments received on nonaccrual
loans are generally recorded as a reduction to the loan carrying amount. Interest payments recorded as reductions to a loan s carrying amount while a loan is on nonaccrual are recognized as interest income only upon payoff of the loan. In
certain circumstances, loans in any class may be restored to accrual status, such as when none of the principal and interest is past due and prospects for future payment are no longer in doubt; or the loan becomes well secured and is in the process
of collection. Loans where there has been a partial charge-off may be returned to accrual status if all principal and interest (including amounts previously charged-off) is expected to be collected and the loan is current.   
  Covered loans not considered to be purchased impaired are evaluated for delinquency, nonaccrual status and charge-off consistent with the
class of loan they would be included in had the loss share coverage not been in place. Generally, purchased impaired loans are considered accruing loans. However, the timing and amount of future cash flows for some loans is not reasonably estimable.
Those loans are classified as nonaccrual loans and interest income is not recognized until the timing and amount of the future cash flows can be reasonably estimated.      The Company classifies its loan portfolios using internal credit quality ratings on a quarterly basis. These ratings include: pass, special mention and classified, and are an important part of the
Company s overall credit risk management process and evaluation of the allowance for credit losses. Loans with a pass rating represent those not classified on the Company s rating scale for problem credits, as minimal credit risk has been
identified. Special mention loans are those that have a potential weakness deserving management s close attention. Classified loans are those where a well-defined weakness has been identified that may put full collection of contractual cash
flows at risk. It is possible that others, given the same information, may reach different reasonable conclusions regarding the credit quality rating classification of specific loans.          Troubled Debt Restructurings     In certain circumstances, the Company may modify the
terms of a loan to maximize the collection of amounts due when a borrower is experiencing financial difficulties or is expected to experience difficulties in the near-term. Concessionary modifications are classified as TDRs unless the modification
results in only an insignificant delay in payments to be received. The Company accrues interest on TDRs if the borrower complies with the revised terms and conditions as agreed upon with the Company and has demonstrated repayment performance at a
level commensurate with the modified terms over several payment cycles. To the extent a previous restructuring was insignificant, the Company considers the cumulative effect of past restructurings related to the receivable when determining whether a
current restructuring is a TDR. Loans classified as TDRs are considered impaired loans for reporting and measurement purposes. Many of the Company s TDRs are determined on a case-by-case basis in connection with ongoing loan collection
processes. However, the Company has also implemented certain restructuring programs that may result in TDRs.      For the
commercial lending segment, modifications generally result in the Company working with borrowers on a case-by-case basis. Commercial and commercial real estate modifications generally include extensions of the maturity date and may be accompanied by
an increase or decrease to the interest rate, which may not be deemed a market rate of interest. In addition, the Company may work with the borrower in identifying other changes that mitigate loss to the Company, which may include additional
collateral or guarantees to support the loan. To a lesser extent, the Company may waive contractual principal. The Company classifies these concessions as TDRs to the extent the Company determines that the borrower is experiencing financial
difficulty.      Modifications for the consumer lending segment are generally part of programs the Company has initiated. The
Company participates in the U.S. Department of Treasury Home Affordable Modification Program ( HAMP ). HAMP gives qualifying homeowners an opportunity to permanently modify their loan and achieve more affordable monthly payments, with
the U.S. Department of Treasury compensating the Company for a portion of the reduction in monthly amounts due from borrowers participating in this program.   

The Company also modifies residential mortgage loans under Federal Housing Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs, or other internal programs. Under these programs, the Company provides
concessions to qualifying borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. The concessions may include adjustments to interest rates, conversion of adjustable rates to fixed rates, extension of maturity dates or deferrals of payments, capitalization
of accrued interest and/or outstanding advances, or in limited situations, partial forgiveness of loan principal. In most instances, participation in residential mortgage loan restructuring programs requires the customer to complete a short-term
trial period. A permanent loan modification is contingent on the customer successfully completing the trial period arrangement and the loan documents are not modified until that time. Loans that require a trial period arrangement are reported as
TDRs when offered to the borrower.      Credit card and other retail loan modifications are generally part of two distinct
restructuring programs. The Company offers workout programs providing customers experiencing financial difficulty with modifications whereby balances may be amortized up to 60 months, and generally include waiver of fees and reduced interest
rates. The Company also provides modification programs to qualifying customers experiencing a temporary financial hardship in which reductions are made to monthly required minimum payments for up to 12 months. Balances related to these programs
are generally frozen, however, may be reopened upon successful exit of the program, in which account privileges may be restored.   
  Modifications to loans in the covered segment are similar in nature to that described above for non-covered loans, and the evaluation and
determination of TDR status is similar, except that acquired loans restructured after acquisition are not considered TDRs for purposes of the Company s accounting and disclosure if the loans evidenced credit deterioration as of the acquisition
date and are accounted for in pools. Losses associated with the modification on covered loans, including the economic impact of interest rate reductions, are generally eligible for reimbursement under loss sharing agreements with the FDIC.
         Impaired Loans     For all
loan classes, a loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current events or information, it is probable the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due per the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Impaired loans include all
nonaccrual and TDR loans. For all loan classes, interest income on TDR loans is recognized under the modified terms and conditions if the borrower has demonstrated repayment performance at a level commensurate with the modified terms over
several payment cycles. Interest income is not recognized on other impaired loans until the loan is paid off.      Factors used by
the Company in determining whether all principal and interest payments due on commercial and commercial real estate loans will be collected and therefore whether those loans are impaired, include but are not limited to, the financial condition of
the borrower, collateral and/or guarantees on the loan, and the borrower s estimated future ability to pay based on industry, geographic location and certain financial ratios. The evaluation of impairment on residential mortgages, credit card
and other retail loans is primarily driven by delinquency status of individual loans or whether a loan has been modified. Individual covered loans, whose future losses are covered by loss sharing agreements with the FDIC that substantially reduce
the risk of credit losses to the Company, are evaluated for impairment and accounted for in a manner consistent with the class of loan they would have been included in had the loss sharing coverage not been in place.   
      Leases     The Company s lease
portfolio consists of both direct financing and leveraged leases. The net investment in direct financing leases is the sum of all minimum lease payments and estimated residual values, less unearned income. Unearned income is recorded in interest
income over the terms of the leases to produce a level yield.      The investment in leveraged leases is the sum of all lease
payments, less nonrecourse debt payments, plus estimated residual values, less unearned income. Income from leveraged leases is recognized over the term of the leases based on the unrecovered equity investment.   
  Residual values on leased assets are reviewed regularly for other-than-temporary impairment. Residual valuations for retail automobile
leases are based on independent assessments of expected used car sale prices at the end-of-term. Impairment tests are conducted based on these valuations considering the probability of the lessee returning the asset to the Company, re-marketing
efforts, insurance coverage and ancillary fees and costs. Valuations for commercial leases are based upon external or internal management appraisals. When there is impairment of the Company s interest in the residual value of a leased asset,
the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair value with the writedown recognized in the current period.          Other Real Estate     OREO is included in other assets, and is property acquired through foreclosure or other proceedings on defaulted loans. OREO
is initially recorded at fair value, less estimated selling costs. OREO is evaluated regularly and any decreases in value along with holding costs, such as taxes and insurance, are reported in noninterest expense.   

     Loans Held for Sale        Loans held for sale ( LHFS ) represent mortgage loan originations intended to be sold in the secondary market and other loans that management has an active plan to sell. LHFS are carried at the
lower-of-cost-or-fair value as determined on an aggregate basis by type of loan with the exception of loans for which the Company has elected fair value accounting, which are carried at fair value. The credit component of any writedowns upon the
transfer of loans to LHFS is reflected in loan charge-offs.   

Where an election is made to carry the LHFS at fair value, any further decreases or
subsequent increases in fair value are recognized in noninterest income. Where an election is made to carry LHFS at lower-of-cost-or-fair value, any further decreases are recognized in noninterest income and increases in fair value are not
recognized until the loans are sold.
 Fair value elections are made at the time of origination or purchase based on the Company s fair value election policy.   
     Derivative Financial Instruments        In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into derivative transactions to manage its interest rate, prepayment, credit, price and foreign currency risk and to accommodate the business
requirements of its customers. Derivative instruments are reported in other assets or other liabilities at fair value. Changes in a derivative s fair value are recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met.
     All derivative instruments that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are recorded at fair value and classified
either as a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability ( fair value hedge ), a hedge of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability or a forecasted transaction ( cash
flow hedge ), or a hedge of the volatility of an investment in foreign operations driven by changes in foreign currency exchange rates ( net investment hedge ). Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and
designated as a fair value hedge, and the offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged item, are recorded in income. Effective changes in the fair value of a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge are recorded in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) until cash flows of the hedged item are recognized in income. Any change in fair value resulting from hedge ineffectiveness is immediately recorded in noninterest income. Effective changes in the fair value of net
investment hedges are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The Company performs an assessment, both at the inception of a hedge and, at a minimum, on a quarterly basis thereafter, to determine whether derivatives designated as
hedging instruments are highly effective in offsetting changes in the value of the hedged items.      If a derivative designated as
a cash flow hedge is terminated or ceases to be highly effective, the gain or loss in other comprehensive income (loss) is amortized to earnings over the period the forecasted hedged transactions impact earnings. If a hedged forecasted transaction
is no longer probable, hedge accounting is ceased and any gain or loss included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is reported in earnings immediately, unless the forecasted transaction is at least reasonably possible of occuring,
whereby the amounts within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) remain.   

     Revenue Recognition        The Company recognizes revenue as it is earned based on contractual terms, as transactions occur, or as services are provided and collectability is reasonably assured. In certain circumstances,
noninterest income is reported net of associated expenses that are directly related to variable volume-based sales or revenue sharing arrangements or when the Company acts on an agency basis for others. Certain specific policies include the
following:           Credit and Debit Card Revenue             and Corporate Payment Products Revenue                 Credit and debit card revenue includes interchange income from consumer credit and debit cards, annual fees, and other transaction and account management fees.
Corporate payment products revenue primarily includes interchange income from corporate and purchasing card transactions processed through card association networks and merchant discount income from closed loop network transactions. Interchange
income is a fee paid by a merchant bank to the card-issuing bank through the interchange network. Interchange fees are set by the credit card associations and are based on cardholder purchase volumes. Merchant discount income is a fee paid by a
merchant to the Company through the closed loop network. Merchant discount fees are set by the Company directly with the merchant. The Company records interchange and merchant discount income as transactions occur. Transaction and account management
fees are recognized as transactions occur or services are provided, except for annual fees, which are recognized over the applicable period. Volume-related payments to partners and credit card associations and expenses for rewards programs are also
recorded within credit and debit card revenue and corporate payment products revenue. Payments to partners and expenses related to rewards programs are recorded when earned by the partner or customer.    
      Merchant Processing Services    
Merchant processing services revenue consists principally of transaction and account management fees charged to merchants for the electronic processing of transactions, net of interchange fees paid to the card-issuing bank, card association
assessments, and revenue sharing amounts, and is recognized at the time the merchant s transactions are processed or other services are performed. The Company may enter into revenue sharing agreements with referral partners or in connection
with purchases of merchant contracts from sellers. The revenue sharing amounts are determined primarily on sales volume processed or revenue generated for a particular group of merchants. Merchant processing revenue also includes revenues related to
point-of-sale equipment recorded as sales when the equipment is shipped or as earned for equipment rentals.   

Trust and Investment Management Fees     Trust and investment management fees are recognized over the period in which services are performed and are based on a percentage of the fair value of the assets under management or administration, fixed
based on account type, or transaction-based fees.            Commercial Products
Revenue       Commercial products revenue primarily includes revenue related to ancillary services provided to Wholesale Banking and Commercial Real Estate customers including
standby letter of credit fees, non-yield related loan fees, syndication and other capital markets related revenue, non-yield related leasing revenue and foreign exchange fees. These fees are recognized as earned or as transactions occur and services
are provided.          Mortgage Banking Revenue     Mortgage banking revenue includes revenue derived from mortgages originated and subsequently sold, generally with servicing retained. The primary components include: gains and losses on mortgage sales;
servicing revenue, including losses related to the repurchase of previously-sold loans; changes in fair value for mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell and measured at fair value under the fair value option; changes in the fair value of
mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs  and the impact of risk management activities associated with the mortgage origination pipeline, funded loans and MSRs. Net Interest income from mortgage loans is recorded in interest income. Refer to
Other Significant Policies in Note 1, as well as Note 10 and Note 21 for a further discussion of MSRs.          Deposit Service Charges     Service charges on deposit accounts are primarily monthly fees based on minimum balances or transaction-based fees.
These fees are recognized as earned or as transactions occur and services are provided.   
     Other Significant Policies     
       Intangible Assets     The price paid over the net fair value of acquired businesses ( goodwill ) is not amortized. Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, using straight-line and
accelerated methods. The recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets is evaluated annually, at a minimum, or on an interim basis if events or circumstances indicate a possible inability to realize the carrying amount. The evaluation
includes assessing the estimated fair value of the intangible asset based on market prices for similar assets, where available, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows associated with the intangible asset.   

       Income Taxes     Deferred taxes are recorded to reflect the tax consequences on future years of differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting carrying amounts.   
      
       Mortgage Servicing Rights     MSRs are capitalized as separate assets when loans are sold and servicing is retained or if they are purchased from others. MSRs are recorded at fair value. The Company determines the fair value by
estimating the present value of the asset s future cash flows utilizing market-based prepayment rates, discount rates, and other assumptions validated through comparison to trade information, industry surveys and independent third party
valuations. Changes in the fair value of MSRs are recorded in earnings during the period in which they occur. Risks inherent in the MSRs valuation include higher than expected prepayment rates and/or delayed receipt of cash flows. The Company
utilizes interest rate swaps, futures, to-be-announced securities ( TBAs ) and options to mitigate MSR valuation risk.   

       Pensions     For purposes of its pension plans, the Company utilizes its fiscal year-end as the measurement date. At the measurement date, plan assets are determined based on fair value, generally representing
observable market prices or the net asset value provided by the plans  administrator. The actuarial cost method used to compute the pension liabilities and related expense is the projected unit credit method. The projected benefit obligation is
principally determined based on the present value of projected benefit distributions at an assumed discount rate. The discount rate utilized is based on the investment yield of high quality corporate bonds available in the marketplace with
maturities equal to projected cash flows of future benefit payments as of the measurement date. Periodic pension expense (or income) includes service costs, interest costs based on the assumed discount rate, the expected return on plan assets based
on an actuarially derived market-related value and amortization of actuarial gains and losses. Pension accounting reflects the long-term nature of benefit obligations and the investment horizon of plan assets, and can have the effect of reducing
earnings volatility related to short-term changes in interest rates and market valuations. Actuarial gains and losses include the impact of plan amendments and various unrecognized gains and losses which are deferred and amortized over the future
service periods of active employees. The market-related value utilized to determine the expected return on plan assets is based on fair value adjusted for the difference between expected returns and actual performance of plan assets. The unrealized
difference between actual experience and expected returns is included in expense over a period of approximately twelve-years. The overfunded or underfunded status of the plans is recorded as an asset or liability on the consolidated balance sheet,
with changes in that status recognized through other comprehensive income (loss).   

       Premises and Equipment     Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and depreciated primarily on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the

assets. Estimated useful lives range up to 40 years for newly constructed buildings and from 3 to 20 years for furniture and equipment.   
  Capitalized leases, less accumulated amortization, are included in premises and equipment. Capitalized lease obligations are included in
long-term debt. Capitalized leases are amortized on a straight-line basis over the lease term and the amortization is included in depreciation expense.   

       Stock-Based Compensation     The Company grants stock-based awards, including restricted stock, restricted stock units and options to purchase common stock of the Company. Stock option grants are for a fixed number of shares to
employees and directors with an exercise price equal to the fair value of the shares at the date of grant. Restricted stock and restricted stock unit grants are awarded at no cost to the recipient. Stock-based compensation for awards is recognized
in the Company s results of operations on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The Company immediately recognizes compensation cost of awards to employees that meet retirement status, despite their continued active employment. The
amortization of stock-based compensation reflects estimated forfeitures adjusted for actual forfeiture experience. As compensation expense is recognized, a deferred tax asset is recorded that represents an estimate of the future tax deduction from
exercise or release of restrictions. At the time stock-based awards are exercised, cancelled, expire, or restrictions are released, the Company may be required to recognize an adjustment to tax expense, depending on the market price of the
Company s common stock at that time.   

       Per Share Calculations     Earnings per common share is calculated by dividing net income applicable to U.S. Bancorp common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per common
share is calculated by adjusting income and outstanding shares, assuming conversion of all potentially dilutive securities.   

NOTE 2  
          
    Accounting Changes       
         Troubled Debt Restructurings       On July 1, 2011, the Company adopted accounting guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board related to identifying and disclosing TDRs, applicable to modifications occurring
on or after January 1, 2011. This guidance provides clarification in determining whether a creditor has granted a concession and whether a debtor is experiencing financial difficulties for the purpose of determining whether a restructuring
constitutes a TDR. The adoption of this guidance resulted in additional loan modifications considered to be TDRs which the Company had not previously considered to be impaired, and for which the allowance for credit losses had previously been
measured under a collective allowance for credit losses methodology. These newly classified TDRs primarily relate to whether or not (i) modifications to interest rates on individual loans are below a market rate of interest, and (ii) a
delay in payment is insignificant. In addition, the Company now includes covered loans and residential mortgage loans repurchased from Government National Association ( GNMA ) mortgage pools whose repayments are primarily insured by the
Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs in its presentation of TDRs even though the exposure to loss on these loans is significantly mitigated by the related loss share agreements or guarantee. Further, the
Company also includes loans in a trial modification period as a result of this guidance. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company s total allowance for credit losses.   

NOTE 3  
          
    Business Combinations and Divestitures       
   In January 2011, the Company acquired the banking operations of First Community Bank of New Mexico ( FCB ) from the FDIC. The
FCB transaction did not include a loss sharing agreement. The Company acquired 38 branch locations and approximately $1.8 billion in assets, assumed approximately $2.1 billion in liabilities, and received approximately $412 million in
cash from the FDIC. In addition, the Company recognized a $46 million gain on this transaction during the first quarter of 2011.      In 2010, the Company acquired the securitization trust administration business of Bank of America, N.A. This transaction included the acquisition of $1.1 trillion of assets under administration and
provided the Company with approximately $8 billion of deposits at the time of closing.      During 2010, the Company exchanged its
proprietary long-term mutual fund business of U.S. Bancorp Asset Management (formerly FAF Advisors, Inc.), an affiliate of the Company, for cash consideration and a 9.5 percent equity interest in Nuveen Investments. The Company recorded a $103
million gain ($41 million after tax) related to this transaction. The Company retained all other products and services previously offered by U.S. Bancorp Asset Management.   

NOTE 4  
          
    Restrictions on Cash and Due from Banks       
   The Federal Reserve Bank requires bank subsidiaries to maintain minimum average reserve balances. The amount of those required reserve
balances were approximately $1.7 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company held $8.5 billion and $10.1 billion, respectively of balances at the Federal Reserve Bank. These
balances are included in cash and due from banks on the consolidated balance sheet.   

NOTE 5  
          
    Investment Securities       
   The amortized cost, other-than-temporary impairment recorded in other comprehensive income (loss), gross unrealized holding gains and
losses, and fair value of held-to-maturity and available-for-sale securities at December 31 were as follows:       

(a)   
   Held-to-maturity securities are carried at historical cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts and credit-related other-than-temporary impairment.

(b)   
   Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with unrealized net gains or losses reported within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in shareholders 
equity.      

(c)   
   Prime securities are those designated as such by the issuer or those with underlying asset characteristics and/or credit enhancements consistent with securities designated as
prime.      

(d)   
   Represents impairment not related to credit for those securities that have been determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired.      

(e)   
   Represents unrealized losses on securities that have not been determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired.      

The weighted-average maturity of the available-for-sale investment securities was 5.2 years
at December 31, 2011, compared with 7.4 years at December 31, 2010. The corresponding weighted-average yields were 3.19 percent and 3.41 percent, respectively. The weighted-average maturity of the held-to-maturity investment securities was 3.9 years
at December 31, 2011, and 6.3 years at December 31, 2010. The corresponding weighted-average yields were 2.21 percent and 2.07 percent, respectively.      For amortized cost, fair value and yield by maturity date of held-to-maturity and available-for-sale securities outstanding at December 31, 2011, refer to Table 13 included in Management s Discussion
and Analysis which is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      Securities carried at
$20.7 billion at December 31, 2011, and $28.0 billion at December 31, 2010, were pledged to secure public, private and trust deposits, repurchase agreements and for other purposes required by law. Included in these amounts were securities sold under
agreements to repurchase where the buyer/lender has the right to sell or pledge the securities and which were collateralized by securities with a carrying amount of $7.0 billion at December 31, 2011, and $9.3 billion at December 31, 2010.
     The following table provides information about the amount of interest income from taxable and non-taxable investment securities:   

The following table provides information about the amount of gross gains and losses realized through the sales of available-for-sale
investment securities:           

In 2007, the Company purchased certain structured investment securities ( SIVs ) from certain money market
funds managed by an affiliate of the Company. Subsequent to the initial purchase, the Company exchanged its interest in the SIVs for a pro-rata portion of the underlying investment securities according to the applicable restructuring agreements. The
SIVs and the investment securities received are collectively referred to as  SIV-related securities  and are predominately included in non-agency mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed securities.   
  Some of the SIV-related securities evidenced credit deterioration at the time of acquisition by the Company. Investment securities with evidence of credit
deterioration at acquisition had an unpaid principal balance and fair value of $416 million and $145 million, respectively, at December 31, 2011, and $485 million and $173 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. Changes in the accretable
balance for these securities were as follows:           

(a)   
   Primarily resulted from the exchange of certain SIVs for the underlying investment securities.      

(b)   
   Primarily resulted from the sale of securities covered under loss sharing agreements with the FDIC and the exchange of certain SIVs for the underlying investment securities.

(c)   
   Primarily represents changes in projected future cash flows related to variable rates on certain investment securities.      
   The Company conducts a regular assessment of its investment securities with unrealized losses to determine whether
securities are other-than-temporarily impaired considering, among other factors, the nature of the securities, credit ratings or financial condition of the issuer, the extent and duration of the unrealized loss, expected cash flows of underlying
collateral, market conditions and whether the Company intends to sell or it is more likely than not the Company will be required to sell the securities.   

The following table summarizes other-than-temporary impairment by investment category:   

(a)   
   Prime securities are those designated as such by the issuer or those with underlying asset characteristics and/or credit enhancements consistent with securities designated as
prime.      

(b)   
   Represents the non-credit portion of other-than-temporary impairment recorded in other comprehensive income for securities determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired
during the period.      
   The Company determined the other-than-temporary impairment recorded in earnings for securities by estimating the future cash flows of
each individual security, using market information where available, and discounting the cash flows at the original effective rate of the security. Other-than-temporary impairment recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) was measured as the
difference between that discounted amount and the fair value of each security. The following table includes the ranges for principal assumptions used for those available-for-sale non-agency mortgage-backed securities determined to be
other-than-temporarily impaired:           

Changes in the credit losses on debt securities (excludes perpetual preferred securities) are summarized as follows:   

(a)   
   Primarily represents principal losses allocated to mortgage and asset-backed securities in the Company s portfolio under the terms of the securitization transaction
documents.      

At December 31, 2011, certain investment securities had a fair value below amortized cost. The following
table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value of the Company s investments with unrealized losses, aggregated by investment category and length of time the individual securities have been in continuous unrealized loss positions, at
December 30, 2011:           

(a)   
   The Company has $367 million of unrealized losses on residential non-agency mortgage-backed securities. Credit-related other-than-temporary impairment on these securities may
occur if there is further deterioration in underlying collateral pool performance. Borrower defaults may increase if current economic conditions persist or worsen. Additionally, further deterioration in home prices may increase the severity of
projected losses.      

(b)   
   Prime securities are those designated as such by the issuer or those with underlying asset characteristics and/or credit enhancements consistent with securities designated as
prime.      
       The Company does not consider these unrealized
losses to be credit-related. These unrealized losses primarily relate to changes in interest rates and market spreads subsequent to purchase. A substantial portion of securities that have unrealized losses are either corporate debt or
mortgage-backed securities issued with high investment grade credit ratings. In general, the issuers of the investment securities are contractually prohibited from prepayment at less than par, and the Company did not pay significant purchase
premiums for these securities. At December 31, 2011, the Company had no plans to sell securities with unrealized losses, and believes it is more likely than not it would not be required to sell such securities before recovery of their amortized
cost.   

NOTE 6  
          
    Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses       
   The composition of the loan portfolio at December 31, disaggregated by class and underlying specific portfolio type, was as
follows:           

The Company had loans of $67.0 billion at
December 31, 2011, and $62.8 billion at December 31, 2010, pledged at the Federal Home Loan Bank ( FHLB ), and loans of $47.2 billion at December 31, 2011, and $44.6 billion at December 31, 2010, pledged at the
Federal Reserve Bank.      The Company primarily lends to borrowers in the states in which it has Consumer and Small Business
Banking offices. Collateral for commercial loans may include marketable securities, accounts receivable, inventory and equipment. For details of the Company s commercial portfolio by industry group and geography as of December 31, 2011 and
2010, see Table 7 included in Management s Discussion and Analysis which is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      For detail of the Company s commercial real estate portfolio by property type and geography as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, see Table 8 included in Management s Discussion and Analysis
which is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Such loans are collateralized by the related property.      Originated loans are reported at the principal amount outstanding, net of unearned interest and deferred fees and costs. Net unearned interest and deferred fees and costs amounted to $1.1 billion at
December 31, 2011, and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2010. All purchased loans and related indemnification assets are recorded at fair value at the date of purchase. The Company evaluates purchased loans for impairment at the date of
purchase in accordance with applicable authoritative accounting guidance. Purchased loans with evidence of credit deterioration since origination for which it is probable that all contractually required payments will not be collected are considered
 purchased impaired loans . All other purchased loans are considered  purchased nonimpaired loans .      On the
acquisition date, the estimate of the contractually required payments receivable for all purchased impaired loans acquired in the FCB transaction were $502 million, the cash flows expected to be collected were $338 million including
interest, and the estimated fair values of the loans were $238 million. These amounts were determined based upon the estimated remaining life of the underlying loans, which includes the effects of estimated prepayments. For the purchased nonimpaired
loans acquired in the FCB transaction, the estimate as of the acquisition date of the contractually required payments receivable were $1.2 billion, the contractual cash flows not expected to be collected were $184 million, and the
estimated fair value of the loans was $828 million.   

Changes in the accretable balance for all purchased impaired loans, including those acquired in the FCB
transaction, for the years ended December 31, were as follows:           

(a)   
   Primarily relates to changes in expected credit performance and changes in variable rates.      
      Allowance for Credit Losses    The allowance for credit losses reserves for probable and estimable losses incurred in the Company s loan and lease portfolio and includes certain amounts that do not represent loss exposure to the
Company because those losses are recoverable under loss sharing agreements with the FDIC.      Activity in the allowance for credit losses by
portfolio class was as follows:           

Additional detail of the allowance for credit losses by portfolio class was as follows:   

(a)   
   Represents the allowance for credit losses related to loans greater than $5 million classified as nonperforming or TDRs.      
   Additional detail of loan balances by portfolio class was as follows:   

(a)   
   Represents loans greater than $5 million classified as nonperforming or TDRs.      

(b)   
   Includes expected reimbursements from the FDIC under loss sharing agreements.      
          Credit
Quality    The quality of the Company s loan portfolios is assessed as a function of net credit losses, levels of nonperforming assets and delinquencies, and credit quality ratings as
defined by the Company. These credit quality ratings are an important part of the Company s overall credit risk management process and evaluation of its allowance for credit losses.   

The following table provides a summary of loans by portfolio class, including the delinquency status of
those that continue to accrue interest, and those that are nonperforming:           

(a)   
   At December 31, 2011, $545 million of loans 30   89 days past due and $2.6 billion of loans 90 days or more past due purchased from Government National Mortgage
Association ( GNMA ) mortgage pools whose repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs, were classified as current, compared with $439 million and $2.6 billion at
December 31, 2010, respectively.      
       Total nonperforming assets include nonaccrual
loans, restructured loans not performing in accordance with modified terms, other real estate and other nonperforming assets owned by the Company. For details of the Company s nonperforming assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, see
Table 16 included in Management s Discussion and Analysis which is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

The following table provides a summary of loans by portfolio class and the Company s internal credit
quality rating:           

(a)   
   Classified rating on consumer loans primarily based on delinquency status.      

(b)   
   At December 31, 2011, $2.6 billion of GNMA loans 90 days or more past due and $2.0 billion of restructured GNMA loans whose repayments are insured by the Federal Housing
Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs were classified with a pass rating, compared with $2.6 billion and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2010, respectively.      
   For all loan classes, a loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current events or information, it is probable the Company will
be unable to collect all amounts due per the contractual terms of the loan agreement. A summary of impaired loans, which include all nonaccrual and TDR loans, by portfolio class was as follows:   

(a)   
   Substantially all loans classified as impaired at December 31, 2011 and 2010, had an associated allowance for credit losses. The total amount of interest income recognized
during 2011 on loans classified as impaired at December 31, 2011, excluding those acquired with deteriorated credit quality, was $358 million, compared to what would have been recognized at the original contractual terms of the loans of $523
million.      

Additional information on impaired loans for the years ended December 31 follows:   

Troubled Debt Restructurings    In certain circumstances, the Company may modify the terms of a loan to maximize the collection of amounts due when a borrower is experiencing financial difficulties or is expected to experience
difficulties in the near-term. The following table provides a summary of loans modified as TDRs for the year ended December 31, 2011, by portfolio class:       

(a)   
   Residential mortgage and home equity and second mortgage TDRs include trial period arrangements offered to customers during the period and the post-modification balances for
these loans reflect the current outstanding balance until a permanent modification is made. At December 31, 2011, 451 loans with outstanding balances of $75 million were in a trial period and have an estimated post-modification balance of $88
million assuming permanent modification occurs at the end of the trial period.      

(b)   
   At December 31, 2011, 53 home equity and second mortgage loans with outstanding balances of $3 million were in a trial period and have an estimated post-modification balance
of $5 million assuming permanent modification occurs at the end of the trial period.      

(c)   
   At December 31, 2011, 1,591 loans with outstanding balances of $207 million were in a trial period and have an estimated post-modification balance of $232 million assuming
permanent modification occurs at the end of the trial period.      

(d)   
   Post-modification balances typically include capitalization of unpaid accrued interest and/or fees under the various modification programs.      

The following table provides a summary of TDR loans that defaulted (fully or partially charged-off or became
90 days or more past due) during 2011 that were modified as TDRs within 12 months previous to default:       

Covered assets represent loans and other assets acquired from the FDIC, subject to loss sharing agreements, and include expected
reimbursements from the FDIC. The carrying amount of the covered assets at December 31, consisted of purchased impaired loans, purchased nonimpaired loans, and other assets as shown in the following table:   

At December 31, 2011, $.2 billion of the
purchased impaired loans included in covered loans were classified as nonperforming assets, compared with $.5 billion at December 31, 2010, because the expected cash flows are primarily based on the liquidation of underlying collateral and
the timing and amount of the cash flows could not be reasonably estimated. Interest income is recognized on other purchased impaired loans through accretion of the difference between the carrying amount of those loans and their expected cash flows.
The initial determination of the fair value of the purchased loans includes the impact of expected credit losses and, therefore, no allowance for credit losses is recorded at the purchase date. To the extent credit deterioration occurs after the
date of acquisition, the Company records an allowance for credit losses.      The Company has an equity interest in a joint venture
that is accounted for utilizing the equity method. The principal activities of this entity are to lend to entities that develop land, and construct and sell residential homes. The Company provides a warehousing line to this joint venture.
Warehousing advances to this joint venture are repaid when the sale of loans is completed or the real estate is permanently refinanced by others. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had $716 million and $825 million,
respectively, of outstanding advances to this joint venture. These advances are included in commercial real estate loans.      Net
gains on the sale of loans of $546 million, $574 million and $710 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were included in noninterest income, primarily in mortgage banking revenue.   
   
 NOTE7 Leases 

NOTE 7  
          
    Leases          The components of the net investment
in sales-type and direct financing leases at December 31 were as follows:           

The minimum future lease payments to be received from sales-type and direct financing leases were as follows
at December 31, 2011:           

NOTE 8  
          
    Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Variable Interest Entities       
       The Company sells financial assets in the normal course of
business. The majority of the Company s financial asset sales are residential mortgage loan sales primarily to government-sponsored enterprises through established programs, the sale or syndication of tax-advantaged investments, commercial loan
sales through participation agreements, and other individual or portfolio loan and securities sales. In accordance with the accounting guidance for asset transfers, the Company considers any ongoing involvement with transferred assets in determining
whether the assets can be derecognized from the balance sheet. For loans sold under participation agreements, the Company also considers the terms of the loan participation agreement and whether they meet the definition of a participating interest
and thus qualify for derecognition. With the exception of servicing and certain performance-based guarantees, the Company s continuing involvement with financial assets sold is minimal and generally limited to market customary representation
and warranty clauses. The guarantees provided to certain third-parties in connection with the sale or syndication of certain assets, primarily loan portfolios and tax-advantaged investments, are further discussed in Note 22. When the Company
sells financial assets, it may retain servicing rights and/or other interests in the transferred financial assets. The gain or loss on sale depends on the previous carrying amount of the transferred financial assets and the consideration received
and any liabilities incurred in exchange for the transferred assets. Upon transfer, any servicing assets and other interests that continue to be held by the Company are initially recognized at fair value. For further information on MSRs, refer to
Note 10. On a limited basis, the Company may acquire and package high-grade corporate bonds for select corporate customers, in which the Company generally has no continuing involvement with these transactions. Additionally, the Company also is
an authorized Ginnie Mae issuer and issues Ginnie Mae securities on a regular basis. The Company has no other asset securitizations or similar asset-backed financing arrangements that are off-balance sheet.   
  The Company is involved in various entities that are considered to be VIEs. The Company s investments in VIEs primarily represent
private investment funds or partnerships that make equity investments, provide debt financing or support community-based investments in affordable housing development entities that provide capital for communities located in low-income districts and
for historic rehabilitation projects that may enable the Company to ensure regulatory compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act. In addition, the Company sponsors entities to which it transfers tax-advantaged investments. The Company s
investments in these entities are designed to generate a return primarily through the realization of federal and state income tax credits over specified time periods. The Company realized federal and state income tax credits related to these
investments of $756 million, $713 million and $685 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company amortizes its investments in these entities as the tax credits are realized. Tax credit
amortization expense is recorded in tax expense for investments meeting certain characteristics, and in other noninterest expense for other investments. Amortization expense recorded in tax expense was $278 million, $228 million and
$265 million, and in other noninterest expense was $528 million, $546 million and $436 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
  At December 31, 2011, approximately $5.6 billion of the Company s assets and $4.0 billion of its liabilities included
on the consolidated balance sheet were related to community development and tax-advantaged investment VIEs, compared with $3.8 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010. The majority of the assets of these
consolidated VIEs are reported in other assets, and the liabilities are reported in long-term debt. The assets of a particular VIE are the primary source of funds to settle its obligations. The creditors of the VIEs do not have recourse to the
general credit of the Company. The Company s exposure to the consolidated VIEs is generally limited to the carrying value of its variable interests plus any related tax credits previously recognized or sold to others.   
  In addition, the Company sponsors a conduit to which it previously transferred high-grade investment securities. The Company consolidates
the conduit because of its ability to manage the activities of the conduit. At December 31, 2011,   

$202 million of the held-to-maturity investment securities on the Company s consolidated balance sheet related to the conduit, compared with $400 million at December 31, 2010.
     The Company also sponsors a municipal bond securities tender option bond program. The Company controls the activities of the
program s entities, is entitled to the residual returns and provides credit, liquidity and remarketing arrangements to the program. As a result, the Company has consolidated the program s entities. At December 31, 2011,
$5.4 billion of available-for-sale securities and $5.3 billion of short-term borrowings on the consolidated balance sheet were related to the tender option bond program, compared with $5.3 billion of available-for-sale securities and
$5.7 billion of short-term borrowings at December 31, 2010.      The Company is not required to consolidate VIEs in which
it has concluded it does not have a controlling financial interest, and thus is not the primary beneficiary. In such cases, the Company does not have both the power to direct the entities  most significant activities and the obligation to
absorb losses or right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIEs. The Company s investments in unconsolidated VIEs ranged from less than $1 million to $37 million, with an aggregate amount of approximately
$1.8 billion at December 31, 2011, and from less than $1 million to $41 million, with an aggregate amount of approximately $2.0 billion at December 31, 2010. The Company s investments in these unconsolidated VIEs
generally are carried in other assets on the consolidated balance sheet. While the Company believes potential losses from these investments are remote, the Company s maximum exposure to loss from these unconsolidated VIEs was approximately
$4.8 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $5.0 billion at December 31, 2010. The maximum exposure to loss was primarily related to community development tax-advantaged investments and included $1.8 billion at
December 31, 2011 and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 recorded on the Company s consolidated balance sheet and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010 of previously recorded tax credits which remain subject to
recapture by taxing authorities based on compliance features required to be met at the project level. The remaining amounts related to investments in private investment funds and partnerships for which the maximum exposure to loss included amounts
recorded on the consolidated balance sheet and any unfunded commitments. The maximum exposure was determined by assuming a scenario where the separate investments within the individual private funds were to become worthless, and the community-based
business and housing projects and related tax credits completely failed and did not meet certain government compliance requirements.       

NOTE 9  
          
    Premises and Equipment       
   Premises and equipment at December 31 consisted of the following:   

NOTE 10  
          
    Mortgage Servicing Rights       
       The Company serviced $191.1 billion of residential mortgage loans
for others at December 31, 2011, and $173.9 billion at December 31, 2010. The net impact included in mortgage banking revenue of fair value changes of MSRs and derivatives used to economically hedge MSRs were net gains of $183 million, $139 million
and $147 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Loan servicing fees, not including valuation changes, included in mortgage banking revenue, were $651 million, $600 million and $512 million for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

Changes in fair value of capitalized MSRs for the years ended December 31, are summarized as follows:

(a)   
   Principally reflects changes in prepayment speeds, and to a lessor extent, changes in discount rates and escrow earnings assumptions, primarily arising from interest rate
changes.      

(b)   
   Primarily represents changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows over time (decay).      
   The estimated sensitivity to changes in interest rates of the fair value of the MSRs portfolio and the related derivative instruments as
of December 31 follows:           

The fair value of MSRs and their sensitivity to
changes in interest rates is influenced by the mix of the servicing portfolio and characteristics of each segment of the portfolio. The Company's servicing portfolio consists of the distinct portfolios of government-insured mortgages, conventional
mortgages and Mortgage Revenue Bond Programs ("MRBP"). The servicing portfolios are predominantly comprised of fixed-rate agency loans with limited adjustable-rate or jumbo mortgage loans. The MRBP division specializes in servicing loans made under
state and local housing authority programs. These programs provide mortgages to low-income and moderate-income borrowers and are generally government-insured programs with a favorable rate subsidy, down payment and/or closing cost assistance.
     A summary of the Company's MSRs and related characteristics by portfolio as of December 31 follows:   

(a)   
   Value is calculated as fair market value divided by the servicing portfolio      

(b)   
   Represents loans sold to government sponsored enterprises.      

NOTE 11  
          
    Intangible Assets       
   Intangible assets consisted of the following:       

(a)   
   Estimated life represents the amortization period for assets subject to the straight line method and the weighted average or life of the underlying cash flows amortization
period for intangibles subject to accelerated methods. If more than one amortization method is used for a category, the estimated life for each method is calculated and reported separately.      

(b)   
   Amortization methods: SL = straight line method AC = accelerated methods generally based on cash flows      

(c)   
   Goodwill is evaluated for impairment, but not amortized. Mortgage servicing rights are recorded at fair value, and are not amortized.      

Aggregate amortization expense consisted of the following:   

The estimated amortization expense for the next five years is as follows:   

The following table reflects the changes in the carrying value of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:   

(a)   
   Other changes in goodwill include a reclassification from goodwill to covered loans related to an FDIC-assisted acquisition for Consumer and Small Business Banking and the
effect of foreign exchange translation for Payment Services.      

NOTE 12  
          
    Short-Term Borrowings (a)       
   The following table is a summary of short-term borrowings for the last three years:   

(a)   
   Interest and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent.      

(b)   
   Average federal funds purchased and total short-term borrowings rates include amounts paid by the Company to certain corporate card customers for paying outstanding
noninterest-bearing corporate card balances within certain time frames per specific agreements. These activities reduce the Company s short-term funding needs, and if they did not occur, the Company would use other funding alternatives,
including the use of federal funds purchased. The amount of this compensation expense paid by the Company and included in federal funds purchased and total short-term borrowings rates for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $218 million, $216 million and $199
million, respectively.      

Long-term debt (debt with original maturities of more than one year) at December 31 consisted of the following:   

(a)   
   Weighted-average interest rates of medium-term notes, Federal Home Loan Bank advances and bank notes were 2.43 percent, 2.31 percent and 1.01 percent, respectively.

(b)   
   Other includes consolidated community development and tax-advantaged investment VIEs, debt issuance fees, and unrealized gains and losses and deferred amounts relating to
derivative instruments.      
       Convertible senior debentures issued by the Company
pay interest on a quarterly basis until a specified period of time (five or nine years prior to the applicable maturity date). After this date, the Company will not pay interest on the debentures prior to maturity. On the maturity date or on any
earlier redemption date, the holder will receive the original principal plus accrued interest. The debentures are convertible at any time on or prior to the maturity date. If the convertible senior debentures are converted, holders of the debentures
will generally receive cash up to the accreted principal amount of the debentures plus, if the market price of the Company's stock exceeds the conversion price in effect on the date of conversion, a number of shares of the Company's common stock, or
an equivalent amount of cash at the Company's option, as determined in accordance with specified terms. The convertible senior debentures are callable by the Company and putable by the investors at a price equal to 100 percent of the accreted
principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. During 2011, investors elected to put debentures with a principal amount of $54 million back to the Company. At December 31, 2011, the weighted average conversion price per share for all convertible
issuances was $38.66.      During 2010, the Company retired $575 million of 5.54 percent fixed-rate junior subordinated debentures
issued to a wholly-owned unconsolidated trust, formed for the purpose of issuing redeemable Income Trust Securities ("ITS") to third party investors. During 2011, the same wholly-owned unconsolidated trust sold the remaining $676 million of junior
subordinated debentures to investors to generate cash proceeds to purchase the Company's Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock ("Series A Preferred Stock"). As part of this sale, a consolidated subsidiary of the Company purchased $176
million of the junior subordinated debentures, which effectively retired the debt. The Company classifies the remaining $500 million as subordinated notes in long-term debt. In addition, during 2011, the Company elected to redeem $618 million of
junior subordinated debentures issued to four other wholly-owned unconsolidated trusts that had interest payable at fixed rates ranging from 5.75 percent to 10.20 percent. Refer to Note 14, "Junior Subordinated Debentures" for further information on
the nature and terms of junior subordinated debentures. There were no issuances of junior subordinated debentures in 2011 or 2010.   

The Company has arrangements with the Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve Bank
whereby the Company could have borrowed an additional $56.4 billion and $48.1 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, based on collateral available.      Maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2011, were:       

NOTE 14  
          
    Junior Subordinated Debentures       
   As of December 31, 2011, the Company sponsored, and wholly owned 100 percent of the common equity of, five unconsolidated trusts that
were formed for the purpose of issuing Company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities ( Trust Preferred Securities ) to third party investors and investing the proceeds from the sale of the Trust Preferred Securities solely
in junior subordinated debt securities of the Company (the  Debentures ). The Debentures held by these trusts, which totaled $2.7 billion, are the sole assets of these trusts. The Company s obligations under the Debentures and related
documents, taken together, constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by the Company of the obligations of the trusts. The guarantee covers the distributions and payments on liquidation or redemption of the Trust Preferred Securities, but only to
the extent of funds held by the trusts. The Company has the right to redeem the Debentures in whole or in part, on or after specific dates, at a redemption price specified in the indentures plus any accrued but unpaid interest to the redemption
date. The Company used the proceeds from the sales of the Debentures for general corporate purposes.      In addition, as of
December 31, 2011, the Company sponsored, and wholly owned 100 percent of the common equity of, USB Capital IX, a wholly-owned unconsolidated trust, formed for the purpose of issuing redeemable ITS to third party investors, originally investing the
proceeds in Debentures issued by the Company and entering into stock purchase contracts to purchase preferred stock in the future. The Company's obligations under the transaction documents, taken together, have the effect of providing a full and
unconditional guarantee by the Company, on a subordinated basis, of the payment obligations of the trust. During 2010, the Company exchanged depositary shares representing an ownership interest in the Company's Series A Preferred Stock to acquire a
portion of the ITS issued by USB Capital IX. This exchange allowed the Company to retire $575 million of the Debentures and cancel a pro-rata portion of stock purchase contracts. During 2011, USB Capital IX sold the remaining $676 million of
Debentures to investors to generate cash proceeds to be used to purchase the Company's Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to the stock purchase contracts. As of December 31, 2011, $676 million of the Company's Series A Preferred Stock is the sole
asset of USB Capital IX.          The following table is a summary of the
securities issued and, the Debentures held by five of the trusts included in long-term debt, as of December 31, 2011:       

NOTE 15  
          
    Shareholders  Equity       
       At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had authority to
issue 4 billion shares of common stock and 50 million shares of preferred stock. The Company had 1.9 billion shares of common stock outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and had 146 million shares reserved for future issuances,
primarily under stock option plans and shares that may be issued in connection with the Company s convertible senior debentures, at December 31, 2011.       
  The number of shares issued and outstanding and the carrying amount of each outstanding series of the Company s preferred stock was as follows:

During 2010, the Company issued depositary shares
representing an ownership interest in 5,746 shares of Series A Preferred Stock to investors, in exchange for their portion of USB Capital IX Income Trust Securities. During 2011, the Company issued depositary shares representing an
ownership interest in 6,764 shares of Series A Preferred Stock to USB Capital IX, thereby settling the stock purchase contract established between the Company and USB Capital IX as part of the 2006 issuance of USB Capital IX Income Trust Securities.
The preferred shares were issued to USB Capital IX for the purchase price specified in the stock forward purchase contract. The Series A Preferred stock has a liquidation preference of $100,000 per share, no stated maturity and will not be subject
to any sinking fund or other obligation of the Company. Dividends, if declared, will accrue and be payable quarterly, in arrears, at a rate per annum equal to the greater of three-month LIBOR plus 1.02 percent or 3.50 percent. The
Series A Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company s option, subject to prior approval by the Federal Reserve Board.      During 2006, the Company issued depositary shares representing an ownership interest in 40,000 shares of Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of
$25,000 per share (the  Series B Preferred Stock ), and during 2008, the Company issued depositary shares representing an ownership interest in 20,000 shares of Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock with a
liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (the  Series D Preferred Stock ). The Series B Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock have no stated maturity and will not be subject to any sinking fund or other obligation
of the Company. Dividends, if declared, will accrue and be payable quarterly, in arrears, at a rate per annum equal to the greater of three-month LIBOR plus .60 percent, or 3.50 percent on the Series B Preferred Stock, and
7.875 percent per annum on the Series D Preferred Stock. Both series are redeemable at the Company s option, on or after specific dates, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board.   
  During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company repurchased shares of its common stock under various authorizations approved by its Board of
Directors. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately 29 million shares that may yet be purchased under the current Board of Directors approved authorization.   
      The following table summarizes the Company s common stock repurchased in each of
the last three years:           

Shareholders  equity is affected by transactions and valuations of asset and liability positions that
require adjustments to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The reconciliation of the transactions affecting accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) included in shareholders  equity for the years ended December 31, is as
follows:           

Regulatory
Capital    The measures used to assess capital by bank regulatory agencies include two principal risk-based ratios, Tier 1 and total risk-based capital. Tier 1 capital is considered core
capital and includes common shareholders  equity plus qualifying preferred stock, trust preferred securities and noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries (subject to certain limitations), and is adjusted for the aggregate impact of
certain items included in other comprehensive income (loss). Total risk-based capital includes Tier 1 capital and other items such as subordinated debt and the allowance for credit losses. Both measures are stated as a percentage of risk-adjusted
assets, which are measured based on their perceived credit risk and include certain off-balance sheet exposures, such as unfunded loan commitments, letters of credit, and derivative contracts. The Company is also subject to a leverage ratio
requirement, a non risk-based asset ratio, which is defined as Tier 1 capital as a percentage of average assets adjusted for goodwill and other non-qualifying intangibles and other assets.   
  For a summary of the regulatory capital requirements and the actual ratios as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, for the Company and its
bank subsidiaries, see Table 22 included in Management s Discussion and Analysis, which is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

The following table provides the components of the Company's regulatory capital at December
31:           

(a)   
   Includes the impact of items included in other comprehensive income (loss), such as unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities, accumulated net gains on cash
flow hedges, pension liability adjustments, etc.      
   Noncontrolling interests principally represent preferred stock of consolidated subsidiaries. During 2006, the
Company s primary banking subsidiary formed USB Realty Corp., a real estate investment trust, for the purpose of issuing 5,000 shares of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Exchangeable Non-cumulative Perpetual Series A Preferred Stock with a liquidation
preference of $100,000 per share ( Series A Preferred Securities ) to third party investors, and investing the proceeds in certain assets, consisting predominately of mortgage-backed securities from the Company. Dividends on the Series A
Preferred Securities, if declared, will accrue and be payable quarterly, in arrears, at a rate per annum of 6.091 percent from December 22, 2006 to, but excluding, January 15, 2012. After January 15, 2012, the rate will be equal to
three-month LIBOR plus 1.147 percent. If USB Realty Corp. has not declared a dividend on the Series A Preferred Securities before the dividend payment date for any dividend period, such dividend shall not be cumulative and shall cease to accrue and
be payable, and USB Realty Corp. will have no obligation to pay dividends accrued for such dividend period, whether or not dividends on the Series A Preferred Securities are declared for any future dividend period.   
  The Series A Preferred Securities will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of USB Realty Corp. on the dividend payment date
occurring in January 2012 and each fifth anniversary thereafter, or in whole but not in part, at the option of USB Realty Corp. on any dividend date before or after January 2012 that is not a five-year date. Any redemption will be subject to the
approval of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.       

NOTE 16  
          
    Earnings Per Share       
   The components of earnings per share were:       

(a)   
   During 2010, the Company exchanged depositary shares representing an ownership interest in 5,746 shares of Series A Preferred Stock for approximately 46 percent of the
outstanding ITS issued by USB Capital IX to third party investors, retired a pro-rata portion of the related junior subordinated debentures and cancelled a pro-rata portion of the related stock purchase contracts.      

(b)   
   Represents the unaccreted discount remaining on the Company's Series E Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock at the redemption date.      

Options and warrants outstanding at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, to purchase 54
million, 56 million and 70 million common shares, respectively, were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, because they were antidilutive. Convertible senior
debentures that could potentially be converted into shares of the Company's common stock pursuant to specified formulas, were not included in the computation of dilutive earnings per share because they were antidilutive.   

NOTE 17  
          
    Employee Benefits       
      Employee Retirement Savings Plan    The Company has a defined contribution retirement savings plan that covers substantially all its employees. Qualified employees are allowed to contribute up to 75 percent of their annual compensation,
subject to Internal Revenue Service limits, through salary deductions under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Employee contributions are invested, at the employees  direction, among a variety of investment alternatives. Employee
contributions are 100 percent matched by the Company, up to four percent of an employee s eligible annual compensation. The Company s matching contribution vests immediately. Although the matching contribution is initially invested in the
Company s common stock, an employee can reinvest the matching contribution among various investment alternatives. Total expense for the Company s matching contributions was $103 million, $96 million and $78 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.         Pension Plans   
The Company has tax qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plans that provide benefits to substantially all its employees. Pension benefits are provided to eligible employees based on years of service, multiplied by a percentage of their
final average pay. As a result of plan mergers, pension benefits may also be provided using two cash balance benefit formulas where only investment or interest credits continue to be credited to participants  accounts. Effective January 1,
2010, the Company established a new cash balance formula for certain current and all future eligible employees. Participants receive annual pay credits based on eligible pay multiplied by a percentage determined by their age and years of service.
Participants also receive an annual interest credit. Employees become vested upon completing three years of vesting service.   
  In general, the Company s qualified pension plans  objectives include maintaining a funded status sufficient to meet participant
benefit obligations over time while reducing long-term funding requirements and pension costs. The Company has an established process for evaluating all of the plans, their performance and significant plan assumptions, including the assumed discount
rate and the long-term rate of return ( LTROR ). Annually, the Company s Compensation and Human Resources Committee (the  Committee ), assisted by outside consultants, evaluates plan objectives, funding policies and plan
investment policies considering its long-term investment time horizon and asset allocation strategies. The process also evaluates significant plan assumptions. Although plan assumptions are established annually, the Company may update its analysis
on an interim basis in order to be responsive to significant events that occur during the year, such as plan mergers and amendments.      The Company s funding policy is to contribute amounts to its plans sufficient to meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the
Pension Protection Act, plus such additional amounts as the Company determines to be appropriate. The Company made no contributions to the qualified pension plans in 2011 or 2010, and anticipates no contributions in 2012. Any contributions made to
the qualified plans are invested in accordance with established investment policies and asset allocation strategies.      In
addition to the funded qualified pension plans, the Company maintains non-qualified plans that are unfunded and provide benefits to certain employees. The assumptions used in computing the accumulated benefit obligation, the projected benefit
obligation and net pension expense are substantially consistent with those assumptions used for the funded qualified plans. In 2012, the Company expects to contribute $21 million to its non-qualified pension plans which equals the 2012 expected
benefit payments.         Postretirement Welfare Plan    In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company provides health care and death benefits to certain retired employees. Generally, all active employees may become eligible for subsidized retiree
health care benefits by meeting defined age and service requirements. The medical plan contains other cost-sharing features such as deductibles and coinsurance. The estimated cost of these retiree benefit payments is accrued during the
employees  active service. Contributions have previously been made to the plan, and in 2012, the Company anticipates no contributions to its postretirement welfare plan.   

The following table summarizes the changes in benefit obligations and plan assets for the years ended
December 31, and the funded status and amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31 for the retirement plans:       

The following table provides information for pension plans with benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at December 31:

The following table sets forth the components of net periodic benefit cost and other amounts recognized in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31 for the retirement plans:       

(a)   
   The pretax estimated actuarial loss (gain) and prior service cost (credit) for the pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into
net periodic benefit cost in 2012 are $161 million and $(5) million, respectively.      

(b)   
   The pretax estimated actuarial loss (gain) for the postretirement welfare plan that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic
benefit cost in 2012 is $(7) million.      
   The following table sets forth weighted average assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligations at December 31:

(b)   
   Determined on a liability weighted basis.      

*   
   Not applicable      

The following table sets forth weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for
the years ended December 31:           

(b)   
   With the help of an independent pension consultant, a range of potential expected rates of return, economic conditions, historical performance relative to assumed rates of
return and asset allocation, and peer group LTROR information are used in developing the plan assumptions for its expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. The Company determined its 2011 expected long-term rates of return reflect current
economic conditions and plan assets.      

(c)   
   Determined on a liability weighted basis.      

*   
   Not applicable      
         Investment Policies and
Asset Allocation      In establishing its investment policies and asset allocation strategies, the Company considers expected returns
and the volatility associated with different strategies. An independent consultant performs modeling that projects numerous outcomes using a broad range of possible scenarios, including a mix of possible rates of inflation and economic growth.
Starting with current economic information, the model bases its projections on past relationships between inflation, fixed income rates and equity returns when these types of economic conditions have existed over the previous 30 years, both in the
U.S. and in foreign countries.       Generally, based on historical performance of the various investment asset classes,
investments in equities have outperformed other investment classes but are subject to higher volatility. While an asset allocation including debt securities and other assets generally has lower volatility and may provide protection in a declining
interest rate environment, it limits the pension plans  long-term up-side potential. Given the pension plans  investment horizon and the financial viability of the Company to meet its funding objectives, the Committee has determined that
an asset allocation strategy investing principally in global equities diversified among various domestic and international equity categories is appropriate. The target asset allocation for the Company s qualified pension plans at
December 31, 2011 is 45 percent passively managed global equities, 25 percent actively managed global equities, 10 percent domestic mid-small cap equities, 5 percent emerging markets equities, 5 percent real estate equities, and 10 percent long
term debt securities. The target asset allocation at December 31, 2010 was 55 percent domestic large cap equities, 19 percent domestic mid cap equities, 6 percent domestic small cap equities and 20 percent international equities.   
  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, plan assets of the qualified pension plans included asset management arrangements with related parties
totaling $95 million and $512 million, respectively.      Under a contractual agreement with U.S. Bancorp Asset Management,
Inc. an affiliate of the Company, certain plan assets are lent to qualified borrowers on a short-term basis in exchange for investment fee income. These borrowers may collateralize the loaned securities with either cash or non-cash securities. Cash
collateral held at December 31, 2011 and 2010 totaled $12 million and $232 million, respectively, with corresponding obligations to return the cash collateral of $20 million and $240 million, respectively.   
  Per authoritative accounting guidance, the Company groups plan assets into a three-level hierarchy for valuation techniques used to
measure their fair value based on whether the valuation inputs are observable or unobservable. Refer to Note 21 for further discussion on these levels.      The assets of the qualified pension plans include investments in equity and U.S. Treasury securities whose fair values are determined based on quoted prices in active markets and are classified within
Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. The qualified pension plans also invest in collective investment and mutual funds whose fair values are determined using the net asset value provided by the administrator of the fund and as a result are
classified as Level 2. In addition, the qualified pension plans invest in long-term debt securities that are valued using third party pricing services and are classified as Level 2. The qualified pension plan invests in a money market mutual fund
with cash collateral from its securities lending arrangement, whose fair value is determined based on quoted prices in markets that are less active and therefore is classified as Level 2. Additionally, the qualified pension plan has investments in
limited partnership interests and debt   

securities whose fair values are determined by the Company by analyzing the limited partnerships  audited financial statements and by averaging the prices obtained from independent pricing
services, respectively. These securities are classified as Level 3.          The
following table summarizes the plan investment assets measured at fair value at December 31:           

(a)   
   Total investment assets of the pension plans exclude obligations to return cash collateral to qualified borrowers of $20 million and $240 million at December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively, under security lending arrangements.      
       The following table summarizes the changes in fair value for all plan investment assets measured at fair value using
significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the years ended December 31:           

2011  

2010  

(Dollars in Millions)  

Debt  
  Securities   

Other  

Debt  
  Securities   

Other  

Balance at beginning of period   

$  
  8  

$  
  6  

$  
  7  

$  
  6  

Unrealized gains (losses) relating to assets still held at end of year   

(9  
  )   

3  

Purchases, sales, principal payments, issuances, and settlements   

(1  
  )   

9  

(2  
  )   

Balance at end of period   

$  
  7  

$  
  6  

$  
  8  

$  
  6  

The following benefit payments are expected to be paid from the retirement plans for the years ended December 31:   

(a)   
   Net of retiree contributions and before Medicare Part D subsidy.      

NOTE 18     
          Stock-Based Compensation       
       As part of its employee and director compensation programs, the
Company may grant certain stock awards under the provisions of the existing stock compensation plans, including plans assumed in acquisitions. The plans provide for grants of options to purchase shares of common stock at a fixed price equal to the
fair value of the underlying stock at the date of grant. Option grants are generally exercisable up to ten years from the date of grant. In addition, the plans provide for grants of shares of common stock or stock units that are subject to
restriction on transfer prior to vesting. Most stock and unit awards vest over three to five years and are subject to forfeiture if certain vesting requirements are not met. Stock incentive plans of acquired companies are generally terminated at the
merger closing dates. Participants under such plans receive the Company s common stock, or options to buy the Company s stock, based on the conversion terms of the various merger agreements. At December 31, 2011, there were
65 million shares (subject to adjustment for forfeitures) available for grant under various plans.            Stock Option Awards        The following is a summary of stock options outstanding and exercised
under various stock options plans of the Company:           

(a)   
   Options cancelled include both non-vested (i.e., forfeitures) and vested options.      

(b)   
   Outstanding options include stock-based awards that may be forfeited in future periods. The impact of the estimated forfeitures is reflected in compensation expense.
     
       Stock-based compensation expense is based on the estimated fair
value of the award at the date of grant or modification. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, requiring the use of subjective assumptions. Because employee stock options
have characteristics that differ from those of traded options, including vesting provisions and trading limitations that impact their liquidity, the determined value used to measure compensation expense may vary from their actual fair value. The
following table includes the weighted average estimated fair value and assumptions utilized by the Company for newly issued grants:       

Expected stock volatility is based on several factors including the historical
volatility of the Company s stock, implied volatility determined from traded options and other factors. The Company uses historical data to estimate option exercises and employee terminations to estimate the expected life of options. The
risk-free interest rate for the expected life of the options is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect on the date of grant. The expected dividend yield is based on the Company s expected dividend yield over the life of the options.
         The following summarizes certain stock option activity of the Company:

To satisfy option exercises, the Company predominantly uses treasury stock.      Additional information regarding stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2011, is as follows:       

Restricted Stock and Unit Awards        A summary of the status of the Company s restricted shares of stock and unit awards is presented below:       

(a)   
   Includes maximum number of shares to be received by participants under awards that are based on the achievement of certain future performance criteria by the Company.
     
   The total fair value of shares vested was $72 million, $44 million, and $12 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Stock-based compensation expense was $118 million, $113 million and $89 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. On an after-tax basis, stock-based compensation was $73 million, $70 million and $55 million for 2011, 2010, and
2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, there was $156 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share-based arrangements granted under the plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
period of 2.4 years as compensation expense.   

The components of income tax expense were:       

A reconciliation of expected income tax expense at the federal statutory rate of 35 percent to the Company s applicable income tax
expense follows:           

The tax effects of fair value adjustments on
securities available-for-sale, derivative instruments in cash flow hedges, pension and post-retirement plans and certain tax benefits related to stock options are recorded directly to shareholders  equity as part of other comprehensive income
(loss).      In preparing its tax returns, the Company is required to interpret complex tax laws and regulations and utilize income
and cost allocation methods to determine its taxable income. On an ongoing basis, the Company is subject to examinations by federal, state, local and foreign taxing authorities that may give rise to differing interpretations of these complex laws,
regulations and methods. Due to the nature of the examination process, it generally takes years before these examinations are completed and matters are resolved. Included in earnings for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were changes in income tax expense and
associated liabilities related to the resolution of various state income tax examinations which cover varying years from 2001 through 2008 in different states. The resolution of these cycles was the result of negotiations held between the Company
and representatives of various taxing authorities throughout the examinations. Federal tax examinations for all years ending through December 31, 2006, are completed and resolved. The Company s tax returns for the years ended December 31,
2007 and 2008 are under examination by the Internal Revenue Service, and during 2011, the Internal Revenue Service began its examination of the Company s tax returns for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010. The years open to
examination by state and local government authorities vary by jurisdiction.       
  A reconciliation of the changes in the federal, state and foreign unrecognized tax position balances are summarized as follows:   

The total amount of unrecognized tax positions that, if recognized, would impact the
effective income tax rate as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, were $220 million, $253 million and $202 million, respectively. The Company classifies interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax positions as a component of income tax
expense. At December 31, 2011, the Company s uncertain tax position balances included $47 million in accrued interest. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 the Company recorded approximately $(2) million, $(6) million
and $13 million, respectively, in interest on unrecognized tax positions.      The remainder of the Company s unrecognized tax
positions relate principally to the timing of deductions for losses on various securities and debt obligations. The Company expects the conclusion of examinations and other developments in 2012 will likely result in a significant decrease in these
uncertain tax positions.      Deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflect the tax effect of estimated temporary differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for the same items for income tax reporting purposes.       
  The significant components of the Company s net deferred tax asset (liability) as of December 31 were:   

The Company has established a valuation allowance
to offset deferred tax assets related to state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards which are subject to various limitations under the respective income tax laws and some of which may expire unused. The Company has approximately $423 million
of federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards which expire at various times through 2023. Management has determined a valuation reserve is not required for most of the remaining deferred tax assets because it is more likely than not
these assets could be realized through carry back to taxable income in prior years, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences and future taxable income.      At December 31, 2011, retained earnings included approximately $102 million of base year reserves of acquired thrift institutions, for which no deferred federal income tax liability has been
recognized. These base year reserves would be recaptured if the Company s banking subsidiaries cease to qualify as a bank for federal income tax purposes. The base year reserves also remain subject to income tax penalty provisions that, in
general, require recapture upon certain stock redemptions of, and excess distributions to, stockholders.   

NOTE 20 
          
    Derivative Instruments       
   The Company recognizes all derivatives in the consolidated balance sheet at fair value as other assets or liabilities. On the date the
Company enters into a derivative contract, the derivative is designated as either a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability ( fair value hedge  a hedge of a forecasted transaction or the variability of cash flows to be
paid related to a recognized asset or liability ( cash flow hedge  a hedge of the volatility of an investment in foreign operations driven by changes in foreign currency exchange rates ( net investment hedge  or a designation
is not made as it is a customer-related transaction, an economic hedge for asset/liability risk management purposes or another stand-alone derivative created through the Company s operations ( free-standing derivative ).   
  Of the Company s $54.7 billion of total notional amount of asset and liability management positions at December 31, 2011,
$14.1 billion was designated as a fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge. When a derivative is designated as a fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge, the Company performs an assessment, at inception and, at a minimum, quarterly
thereafter, to determine the effectiveness of the derivative in offsetting changes in the value or cash flows of the hedged item(s).         Fair Value Hedges    These derivatives are primarily interest rate swaps that hedge the change in fair value related to interest rate changes of
underlying fixed-rate debt and junior subordinated debentures. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges, and changes in the fair value of the hedged items, are recorded in earnings. All fair value hedges were highly
effective for the year ended December 31, 2011, and the change in fair value attributed to hedge ineffectiveness was not material.   
     Cash Flow Hedges    These derivatives
are interest rate swaps that are hedges of the forecasted cash flows from the underlying variable-rate loans and debt. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) until
expense from the cash flows of the hedged items is realized. If a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge is terminated or ceases to be highly effective, the gain or loss in other comprehensive income (loss) is amortized to earnings over the
period the forecasted hedged transactions impact earnings. If a hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable, hedge accounting is ceased and any gain or loss included in other comprehensive income (loss) is reported in earnings immediately,
unless the forecasted transaction is at least reasonably possible of occurring, whereby the amounts within other comprehensive income (loss) remain. At December 31, 2011, the Company had $489 million (net-of-tax) of realized and unrealized
losses on derivatives classified as cash flow hedges recorded in other comprehensive income (loss), compared with $414 million (net-of-tax) at December 31, 2010. The estimated amount to be reclassified from other comprehensive income
(loss) into earnings during the next 12 months is a loss of $124 million (net-of-tax). This amount includes gains and losses related to hedges that were terminated early for which the forecasted transactions are still probable. All cash flow
hedges were highly effective for the year ended December 31, 2011, and the change in fair value attributed to hedge ineffectiveness was not material.         Net Investment Hedges    The Company uses forward commitments to sell specified amounts
of certain foreign currencies to hedge the volatility of its investment in foreign operations driven by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The ineffectiveness on all net investment hedges was not material for the year ended
December 31, 2011.         Other Derivative Positions    The Company enters into free-standing derivatives to mitigate interest rate risk and for other risk management purposes. These derivatives include forward commitments to sell TBAs and other
commitments to sell residential mortgage loans, which are used to economically hedge the interest rate risk related to residential mortgage loans held for sale. The Company also enters into U.S. Treasury futures, options on U.S. Treasury
futures contracts, interest rate swaps and forward commitments to buy TBAs to economically hedge the change in the fair value of the Company s MSRs. The Company also enters into foreign currency forwards to economically hedge remeasurement
gains and losses the Company recognizes on foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. In addition, the Company acts as a seller and buyer of interest rate derivatives and foreign exchange contracts for its customers. To mitigate the market
and liquidity risk associated with these customer derivatives, the Company enters into similar offsetting positions with broker-dealers. The Company also has derivative contracts that are created through its operations, including commitments to
originate mortgage loans held for sale and certain derivative financial guarantee contracts.      For additional information on the
Company s purpose for entering into derivative transactions and its overall risk management strategies, refer to  Management Discussion and Analysis   Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate and Other Risks  which is
incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

The following table provides information on the fair value of the Company s derivative positions as of
December 31:           

Note:   
   The fair value of asset and liability derivatives are included in Other assets and Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, respectively.

(a)   
   Represents netting of derivative asset and liability balances, and related collateral, with the same counterparty subject to master netting agreements. Authoritative
accounting guidance permits the netting of derivative receivables and payables when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists between the Company and a derivative counterparty. A master netting agreement is an agreement between two
counterparties who have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provide for the net settlement of contracts through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on or termination of any one contract. At December 31,
2011, the amount of cash and money market investments collateral posted by counterparties that was netted against derivative assets was $88 million and the amount of cash collateral posted by the Company that was netted against derivative
liabilities was $1.7 billion. At December 31, 2010, the amount of cash and money market investments collateral posted by counterparties that was netted against derivative assets was $55 million and the amount of cash collateral posted by the Company
that was netted against derivative liabilities was $936 million.      
   The following table summarizes the asset and liability management derivative positions of the Company:   

The following table summarizes the customer-related derivative positions of the Company:   

(a)   
   Reflects the net of long and short positions.      
   The table below shows the effective portion of the gains (losses) recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) and the gains (losses)
reclassified from other comprehensive income (loss) into earnings (net-of-tax) for the years ended December 31:       

(a)   
   Gains (Losses) reclassified from other comprehensive income (loss) into interest income on loans and interest expense on long-term debt.      

The table below shows the gains (losses) recognized in earnings for fair value hedges, other economic hedges
and the customer-related positions for the years ended December 31:           

Location of Gains (Losses)  
  Recognized in Earnings   
        
  Gains (Losses) Recognized in Earnings  

(Dollars in Millions)  

2011  

2010  

2009  

Asset and Liability Management Positions    

Fair value hedges (a)   

Interest rate contracts   
        
  Other noninterest income  
        
  $  
  (36  
  )   
      
  $  
  (31  
  )   
      
  $  
  (27  
  )    
 
    Foreign exchange cross-currency swaps   
        
  Other noninterest income  

(69  
  )   

(193  
  )   

115  

Other economic hedges   

Interest rate contracts   

Futures and forwards   
        
  Mortgage banking revenue  

23  

831  

184  

Purchased and written options   
        
  Mortgage banking revenue  

456  

425  

300  

Receive fixed/pay floating swaps   
        
  Mortgage banking revenue  

518  

Pay fixed/receive floating swaps   
        
  Mortgage banking revenue  

1  

Foreign exchange forward contracts   
        
  Commercial products revenue  

(81  
  )   

(16  
  )   

(46  
  )    
 
    Equity contracts   
        
  Compensation expense  

1  

1  

(22  
  )    
 
    Credit contracts   
        
  Other noninterest income/expense  

(6  
  )   

29  

Customer-Related Positions    

Interest rate contracts   

Receive fixed/pay floating swaps   
        
  Other noninterest income  

302  

201  

(658  
  )    
 
    Pay fixed/receive floating swaps   
        
  Other noninterest income  

(317  
  )   

(196  
  )   

696  

Purchased and written options   
        
  Other noninterest income  

1  

(1  
  )    
 
    Foreign exchange rate contracts   

Forwards, spots and swaps   
        
  Commercial products revenue  

53  

49  

49  

Purchased and written options   
        
  Commercial products revenue  

1  

1  

Derivatives are subject to credit risk associated
with counterparties to the derivative contracts. The Company measures that credit risk based on its assessment of the probability of counterparty default and includes that risk within the fair value of the derivative. The Company manages
counterparty credit risk through diversification of its derivative positions among various counterparties, by entering into master netting agreements and, where possible, by requiring collateral agreements. These collateral agreements require the
counterparty to post, on a daily basis, collateral (typically cash) equal to the Company s net derivative receivable. For highly-rated counterparties, the agreements may include minimum dollar posting thresholds, but allow for the Company to
call for immediate, full collateral coverage when credit-rating thresholds are triggered by counterparties.      The Company s
collateral agreements are bilateral and, therefore, contain provisions that require collateralization of the Company s net liability derivative positions. Required collateral coverage is based on certain net liability thresholds and contingent
upon the Company s credit rating from two of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. If the Company s credit rating were to fall below credit ratings thresholds established in the collateral agreements, the
counterparties to the derivatives could request immediate full collateral coverage for derivatives in net liability positions. The aggregate fair value of all derivatives under collateral agreements that were in a net liability position at
December 31, 2011, was $1.9 billion. At December 31, 2011, the Company had $1.7 billion of cash posted as collateral against this net liability position.       

NOTE 21 
          
    Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities       
   The Company uses fair value measurements for the initial recording of certain assets and liabilities, periodic remeasurement of certain
assets and liabilities, and disclosures. Derivatives, trading and available-for-sale investment securities, certain mortgage loans held for sale ( MLHFS ) and MSRs are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Additionally, from time to
time, the Company may be required to record at fair value other assets on a nonrecurring basis, such as loans held for sale, loans held for investment and certain other assets. These nonrecurring fair value adjustments typically involve application
of lower-of-cost-or-fair value accounting or impairment write-downs of individual assets.      Fair value is defined as the
exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
A fair value measurement reflects all of the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability,   

including assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset, and the risk of nonperformance.   
  The Company groups its assets and liabilities measured at fair value into a three-level hierarchy for valuation techniques used to measure
financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value. This hierarchy is based on whether the valuation inputs are observable or unobservable. These levels are:       

Level 1   Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 1 includes U.S. Treasury and exchange-traded instruments.

Level 2   Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that
are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 2 includes debt securities that are traded less frequently than
exchange-traded instruments and which are typically valued using third party pricing services; derivative contracts whose value is determined using a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or
corroborated by observable market data; and MLHFS whose values are determined using quoted prices for similar assets or pricing models with inputs that are observable in the market or can be corroborated by observable market data.

Level 3   Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or
liabilities. Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair
value requires significant management judgment or estimation. This category includes MSRs, certain debt securities, including the Company s SIV-related securities and non-agency mortgage-backed securities, and certain derivative contracts.
        When the Company changes its valuation inputs for measuring financial assets and financial liabilities at
fair value, either due to changes in current market conditions or other factors, it may need to transfer those assets or liabilities to another level in the hierarchy based on the new inputs used. The Company recognizes these transfers at the end of
the reporting period that the transfers occur. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, there were no significant transfers of financial assets or financial liabilities between the hierarchy levels, except for the transfer of
non-agency mortgage-backed securities from Level 2 to Level 3 in the first quarter of 2009, as discussed below.      The following
section describes the valuation methodologies used by the Company to measure financial assets and liabilities at fair value and for estimating fair value for financial instruments not recorded at fair value as required under disclosure guidance
related to the fair value of financial instruments. In addition, for financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value, the following section includes an indication of the level of the fair value hierarchy in which the assets or liabilities
are classified. Where appropriate, the description includes information about the valuation models and key inputs to those models. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, there were no significant changes to the valuation techniques used by the Company to
measure fair value.         Cash and Cash Equivalents    The carrying value of cash, amounts due from banks, federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements was assumed to approximate fair value.   
     Investment Securities    When quoted
market prices for identical securities are available in an active market, these prices are used to determine fair value and these securities are classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Level 1 investment securities are predominantly
U.S. Treasury securities.      For other securities, quoted market prices may not be readily available for the specific securities.
When possible, the Company determines fair value based on market observable information, including quoted market prices for similar securities, inactive transaction prices, and broker quotes. These securities are classified within Level 2 of the
fair value hierarchy. Level 2 valuations are provided by a third party pricing service. The Company reviews the valuation methodologies utilized by the pricing service and reviews the security level prices provided by the pricing service against
management s expectation of fair value, based on changes in various benchmarks and market knowledge from recent trading activity. Additionally, the Company validates the fair value provided by the pricing services by comparing them to recent
observable market trades (where available), broker provided quotes, or other independent secondary pricing sources. Prices obtained from the pricing service are adjusted if they are found to be inconsistent with observable market data. Level 2
investment securities are predominantly agency mortgage-backed securities, certain other asset-backed securities, municipal securities, corporate debt securities, and perpetual preferred securities.   
  The fair value of securities for which there are no market trades, or where trading is inactive as compared to normal market activity, are
classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The Company determines the fair value of these   

securities using a cash flow methodology and incorporating observable market information, where available. Cash flow methodologies and other market valuation techniques involving management
judgment use assumptions regarding housing prices, interest rates and borrower performance. Inputs are refined and updated to reflect market developments. The primary valuation drivers of these securities are the prepayment rates, default rates and
default severities associated with the underlying collateral, as well as the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the projected cash flows. Level 3 fair values, including the assumptions used, are subject to an independent internal
review, including a comparison to fair values provided by third party pricing services, where available. Securities classified within Level 3 include non-agency mortgage-backed securities, non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities, certain
asset-backed securities, certain collateralized debt obligations and collateralized loan obligations, certain corporate debt securities and SIV-related securities. Beginning in the first quarter of 2009, due to the limited number of trades of
non-agency mortgage-backed securities and lack of reliable evidence about transaction prices, the Company began determining the fair value of these securities using a cash flow methodology and incorporating observable market information, where
available. The use of a cash flow methodology resulted in the Company transferring some non-agency mortgage-backed securities to Level 3 in the first quarter of 2009. This transfer did not impact earnings and was not significant to
shareholders  equity of the Company or the carrying amount of the securities.          The following table shows the valuation assumption ranges for Level 3 available-for-sale non-agency mortgage-backed securities:   

(a)   
   Prime securities are those designated as such by the issuer or those with underlying asset characteristics and/or credit enhancements consistent with securities designated as
prime.      
          Certain mortgage
loans held for sale    MLHFS measured at fair value, for which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist, are initially valued at the transaction price and
are subsequently valued by comparison to instruments with similar collateral and risk profiles. MLHFS are classified within Level 2. Included in mortgage banking revenue was a $15 million net gain, a $125 million net loss and a
$206 million net gain, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, from the changes to fair value of these MLHFS under fair value option accounting guidance. Changes in fair value due to instrument specific credit
risk were immaterial. Interest income for MLHFS is measured based on contractual interest rates and reported as interest income in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Electing to measure MLHFS at fair value reduces certain timing differences and
better matches changes in fair value of these assets with changes in the value of the derivative instruments used to economically hedge them without the burden of complying with the requirements for hedge accounting.   
     Loans    The loan portfolio includes
adjustable and fixed-rate loans, the fair value of which was estimated using discounted cash flow analyses and other valuation techniques. The expected cash flows of loans considered historical prepayment experiences and estimated credit losses for
nonperforming loans and were discounted using current rates offered to borrowers of similar credit characteristics. Generally, loan fair values reflect Level 3 information.         Mortgage servicing rights    MSRs are valued using a cash flow methodology and third
party prices, if available. Accordingly, MSRs are classified within Level 3. The Company determines fair value by estimating the present value of the asset s future cash flows using market-based prepayment rates, discount rates, and other
assumptions validated through comparison to trade information, industry surveys, and independent third party valuations. Risks inherent in MSRs valuation include higher than expected prepayment rates and/or delayed receipt of cash flows. Refer to
Note 10 for further information on MSR valuation assumptions.         Derivatives    The majority of derivatives held by the Company are executed over-the-counter and are valued using standard cash flow, Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo valuation techniques. The models incorporate inputs,
depending on the type of derivative, including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates and volatility. In addition, all derivative values   

incorporate an assessment of the risk of counterparty nonperformance, measured based on the Company s evaluation of credit risk as well as external assessments of credit risk, where
available. In its assessment of nonperformance risk, the Company considers its ability to net derivative positions under master netting agreements, as well as collateral received or provided under collateral support agreements. The majority of these
derivatives are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as the significant inputs to the models are observable. An exception to the Level 2 classification is certain derivative transactions for which the risk of
nonperformance cannot be observed in the market. These derivatives are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. In addition, commitments to sell, purchase and originate mortgage loans that meet the requirements of a derivative,
are valued by pricing models that include market observable and unobservable inputs. Due to the significant unobservable inputs, these commitments are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.   
     Deposit Liabilities    The fair value
of demand deposits, savings accounts and certain money market deposits is equal to the amount payable on demand. The fair value of fixed-rate certificates of deposit was estimated by discounting the contractual cash flow using current market rates.
        Short-term
Borrowings    Federal funds purchased, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, commercial paper and other short-term funds borrowed have floating rates or short-term maturities.
The fair value of short-term borrowings was determined by discounting contractual cash flows using current market rates.         Long-term Debt    The fair value for most long-term debt was determined by discounting contractual cash flows using current market rates. Junior
subordinated debt instruments were valued using market quotes.         Loan Commitments, Letters of
Credit and Guarantees    The fair value of commitments, letters of credit and guarantees represents the estimated costs to terminate or otherwise settle the obligations with a third
party. The fair value of residential mortgage commitments is estimated based on observable and unobservable inputs. Other loan commitments, letters of credit and guarantees are not actively traded, and the Company estimates their fair value based on
the related amount of unamortized deferred commitment fees adjusted for the probable losses for these arrangements.   

The following table summarizes the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring
basis:           

The following table presents the changes in fair value for all assets and liabilities measured at fair value
on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the years ended December 31:       

(a)   
   Approximately $(31) million included in securities gains (losses) and $56 million included in interest income.      

(b)   
   Included in mortgage banking revenue.      

(c)   
   Approximately $716 million included in other noninterest income and $834 million included in mortgage banking revenue.      

(d)   
   Approximately $262 million included in other noninterest income and $(645) million included in mortgage banking revenue.      

(e)   
   Approximately $(91) million included in securities gains (losses) and $61 million included in interest income.      

(f)   
   Approximately $632 million included in other noninterest income and $795 million included in mortgage banking revenue.      

(g)   
   Approximately $483 million included in other noninterest income and $(801) million included in mortgage banking revenue.      

(h)   
   Approximately $(361) million included in securities gains (losses) and $31 million included in interest income.      

(i)   
   Approximately $(1.4) billion included in other noninterest income and $611 million included in mortgage banking revenue.      

(j)   
   Approximately $(630) million included in other noninterest income and $(698) million included in mortgage banking revenue.      

Additional detail of purchases, sales, principal payments, issuances and settlements for assets and
liabilities classified within Level 3 for the year ended December 31, 2011, was as follows:           

(a)   
   Represents MSRs capitalized during the period      
   The Company is also required periodically to measure certain other financial assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These
measurements of fair value usually result from the application of lower-of-cost-or-fair value accounting or write-downs of individual assets.   
  The following table summarizes the adjusted carrying values and the level of valuation assumptions for assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring
basis as of December 31:           

(a)   
   Represents the carrying value of loans for which adjustments were based on the fair value of the collateral, excluding loans fully charged-off.      

(b)   
   Primarily represents the fair value of foreclosed properties that were measured at fair value based on an appraisal or broker price opinion of the collateral subsequent to
their initial acquisition.      
   The following table summarizes losses recognized related to nonrecurring fair value measurements of individual assets or portfolios for
the years ended December 31:           

(a)   
   Represents write-downs of loans which were based on the fair value of the collateral, excluding loans fully charged-off.      

(b)   
   Primarily represents related losses of foreclosed properties that were measured at fair value subsequent to their initial acquisition.      
     Fair Value Option        The
following table summarizes the differences between the aggregate fair value carrying amount of MLHFS for which the fair value option has been elected and the aggregate unpaid principal amount that the Company is contractually obligated to receive at
maturity as of December 31:           

Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial
Instruments    The following table summarizes the estimated fair value for financial instruments as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and includes financial instruments that are not
accounted for at fair value. In accordance with disclosure guidance related to fair values of financial instruments, the Company did not include assets and liabilities that are not financial instruments, such as the value of goodwill, long-term
relationships with deposit, credit card, merchant processing and trust customers, other purchased intangibles, premises and equipment, deferred taxes and other liabilities.   
      The estimated fair values of the Company s financial instruments as of December
31, are shown in the table below:           

(a)   
   Balance excludes mortgages held for sale for which the fair value option under applicable accounting guidance was elected.      
   The fair value of unfunded commitments, standby letters of credit and other guarantees is approximately equal to their
carrying value. The carrying value of unfunded commitments and standby letters of credit was $381 million and $353 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The carrying value of other guarantees was $359 million and $330 million at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.       

NOTE 22  
          
    Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities       
     Commitments to Extend Credit        Commitments to extend credit are legally binding and generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses. The contractual amount represents the Company s exposure to credit loss, in
the event of default by the borrower. The Company manages this credit risk by using the same credit policies it applies to loans. Collateral is obtained to secure commitments based on management s credit assessment of the borrower. The
collateral may include marketable securities, receivables, inventory, equipment and real estate. Since the Company expects many of the commitments to expire without being drawn, total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent the
Company s future liquidity requirements. In addition, the commitments include consumer credit lines that are cancelable upon notification to the consumer.        Letters of Credit        Standby letters of credit are commitments the Company issues to guarantee
the performance of a customer to a third party. The guarantees frequently support public and private borrowing arrangements, including commercial paper issuances, bond financings and other similar transactions. The Company issues commercial letters
of credit on behalf of customers to ensure payment or collection in connection with trade transactions. In the event of a customer s nonperformance, the Company s credit loss exposure is the same as in any extension of credit, up to the
letter s contractual amount. Management assesses the borrower s credit to determine the necessary collateral, which may include marketable securities, receivables, inventory, equipment and real estate. Since the conditions requiring the
Company to fund letters of credit may not occur, the Company expects its liquidity requirements to be less than the total outstanding commitments. The maximum potential future payments guaranteed by the Company under standby letter of credit
arrangements at December 31, 2011, were approximately $19.2 billion with a weighted-average term of approximately 22 months. The estimated fair value of standby letters of credit was approximately $97 million at December 31, 2011.

The contract or notional amounts of unfunded commitments to extend credit and letters of
credit at December 31, 2011, were as follows:           

(a)   
   Primarily cancelable at the Company s discretion.      
     Lease Commitments        Rental
expense for operating leases totaled $291 million in 2011, $277 million in 2010 and $253 million in 2009. Future minimum payments, net of sublease rentals, under capitalized leases and noncancelable operating leases with initial or
remaining terms of one year or more, consisted of the following at December 31, 2011:           

Guarantees        Guarantees are
contingent commitments issued by the Company to customers or other third parties. The Company s guarantees primarily include parent guarantees related to subsidiaries  third party borrowing arrangements; third party performance guarantees
inherent in the Company s business operations, such as indemnified securities lending programs and merchant charge-back guarantees; indemnification or buy-back provisions related to certain asset sales; and contingent consideration arrangements
related to acquisitions. For certain guarantees, the Company has recorded a liability related to the potential obligation, or has access to collateral to support the guarantee or through the exercise of other recourse provisions can offset some or
all of the maximum potential future payments made under these guarantees.        Third Party Borrowing
Arrangements      The Company provides guarantees to third parties as a part of certain subsidiaries  borrowing arrangements,
primarily representing guaranteed operating or capital lease payments or other debt obligations with maturity dates extending through 2013. The maximum potential future payments guaranteed by the Company under these arrangements were approximately
$436 million at December 31, 2011.         Commitments from Securities Lending      The Company participates in securities lending activities by acting as the customer s agent involving the loan of securities. The
Company indemnifies customers for the difference between the market value of the securities lent and the market value of the collateral received. Cash collateralizes these transactions. The maximum potential future payments guaranteed by the Company
under these arrangements were approximately $9.2 billion at December 31, 2011, and represented the market value of the securities lent to third parties. At December 31, 2011, the Company held assets with a market value of $9.4 billion as
collateral for these arrangements.         Asset Sales      The Company has provided guarantees to certain third parties in connection with the sale or syndication of certain assets, primarily loan
portfolios and tax credits. These guarantees are generally in the form of asset buy-back or make-whole provisions that are triggered upon a credit event or a change in the tax-qualifying status of the related projects, as applicable, and remain in
effect until the loans are collected or final tax credits are realized, respectively. The maximum potential future payments guaranteed by the Company under these arrangements were approximately $2.3 billion at December 31, 2011, and represented
the proceeds received from the buyer or the guaranteed portion in these transactions where the buy-back or make-whole provisions have not yet expired. At December 31, 2011, the Company had reserved $79 million for potential losses related to the
sale or syndication of tax credits.       The maximum potential future payments do not include loan sales where the Company
provides standard representations and warranties to the buyer against losses related to loan underwriting documentation defects that may have existed at the time of sale that generally are identified after the occurrence of a triggering event such
as delinquency. For these types of loan sales, the maximum potential future payments is generally the unpaid principal balance of loans sold measured at the end of the current reporting period. Actual losses will be significantly less than the
maximum exposure, as only a fraction of loans sold will have a representation and warranty breach, and any losses on repurchase would generally be mitigated by any collateral held against the loans.   

The Company regularly sells loans to government sponsored enterprises ( GSEs ) as
part of its mortgage banking activities. The Company provides customary representation and warranties to the GSEs in conjunction with these sales. These representations and warranties generally require the Company to repurchase assets if it is
subsequently determined that a loan did not meet specified criteria, such as a documentation deficiency or rescission of mortgage insurance. If the Company is unable to cure or refute a repurchase request, the Company is generally obligated to
repurchase the loan or otherwise reimburse the counterparty for losses. At December 31, 2011, the Company had reserved $160 million for potential losses from representation and warranty obligations. The Company s reserve reflects
management s best estimate of losses for representation and warranty obligations. The Company s reserving methodology uses current information about investor repurchase requests, and assumptions about defect rate, concur rate, repurchase
mix, and loss severity, based upon the Company s most recent loss trends. The Company also considers qualitative factors that may result in anticipated losses differing from historical loss trends, such as loan vintage, underwriting
characteristics and macroeconomic trends.      The following table is a rollforward of the Company s representation and warranty reserve:

As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company had $105 million and $165 million,
respectively, of unresolved representation and warranty claims from the GSEs. The Company does not have a significant amount of unresolved claims from investors other than the GSEs.        Merchant Processing      The Company,
through its subsidiaries, provides merchant processing services. Under the rules of credit card associations, a merchant processor retains a contingent liability for credit card transactions processed. This contingent liability arises in the event
of a billing dispute between the merchant and a cardholder that is ultimately resolved in the cardholder s favor. In this situation, the transaction is  charged-back  to the merchant and the disputed amount is credited or otherwise
refunded to the cardholder. If the Company is unable to collect this amount from the merchant, it bears the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder.       A cardholder, through its issuing bank, generally has until the latter of up to four months after the date the transaction is processed or the receipt of the product or service to present a charge-back to
the Company as the merchant processor. The absolute maximum potential liability is estimated to be the total volume of credit card transactions that meet the associations  requirements to be valid charge-back transactions at any given time.
Management estimates that the maximum potential exposure for charge-backs would approximate the total amount of merchant transactions processed through the credit card associations for the last four months. For the last four months this amount
totaled approximately $74.3 billion. In most cases, this contingent liability is unlikely to arise, as most products and services are delivered when purchased and amounts are refunded when items are returned to merchants. However, where the product
or service is not provided until a future date ( future delivery ), the potential for this contingent liability increases. To mitigate this risk, the Company may require the merchant to make an escrow deposit, may place maximum volume
limitations on future delivery transactions processed by the merchant at any point in time, or may require various credit enhancements (including letters of credit and bank guarantees). Also, merchant processing contracts may include event triggers
to provide the Company more financial and operational control in the event of financial deterioration of the merchant.      The
Company s primary exposure to future delivery is related to merchant processing for airline companies. The Company currently processes card transactions in the United States, Canada and Europe for these merchants. In the event of liquidation of
these merchants, the Company could become financially liable for refunding tickets purchased through the credit card associations under the charge-back provisions. Charge-back risk related to these merchants is evaluated in a manner similar to
credit risk assessments and, as such, merchant processing contracts contain various provisions to protect the Company in the event of default. At December 31, 2011, the value of airline tickets purchased to be delivered at a future date was
$4.6 billion. The Company held collateral of $438 million in escrow deposits, letters of credit and indemnities from financial institutions, and liens on various assets. With respect to future delivery risk for other merchants, the Company
held $14 million of merchant escrow deposits as collateral. In addition to specific collateral or other credit enhancements, the Company maintains a liability for its implied guarantees associated with future delivery. At December 31, 2011, the
liability was $64 million primarily related to these airline processing arrangements.   

In the normal course of business, the Company has unresolved charge-backs. The Company
assesses the likelihood of its potential liability based on the extent and nature of unresolved charge-backs and its historical loss experience. At December 31, 2011, the Company held $107 million of merchant escrow deposits as collateral and
had a recorded liability for potential losses of $12 million.        Contingent Consideration
Arrangements      The Company has contingent payment obligations related to certain business combination transactions. Payments are
guaranteed as long as certain post-acquisition performance-based criteria are met or customer relationships are maintained. At December 31, 2011, the maximum potential future payments required to be made by the Company under these arrangements
was approximately $4 million. If required, the majority of these contingent payments are payable within the next 12 months.    
    Minimum Revenue Guarantees      In the normal course of business, the Company may enter into revenue share agreements with third party business partners who generate customer referrals or provide marketing or other services related to
the generation of revenue. In certain of these agreements, the Company may guarantee that a minimum amount of revenue share payments will be made to the third party over a specified period of time. At December 31, 2011, the maximum potential
future payments required to be made by the Company under these agreements were $31 million and the Company had recorded a related liability of $20 million.         Tender Option Bond Program Guarantee      As
discussed in Note 8, the Company sponsors a municipal bond securities tender option bond program and consolidates the program s entities on its consolidated balance sheet. The Company provides financial performance guarantees related to the
program s entities. At December 31, 2011, the Company guaranteed $5.3 billion of borrowings of the program s entities, included on the consolidated balance sheet in short-term borrowings. The Company also included on its consolidated
balance sheet the related $5.4 billion of available-for-sale investment securities serving as collateral for this arrangement.         Other Guarantees and Commitments      The Company has also made other financial performance
guarantees and commitments related to the operations of its subsidiaries. At December 31, 2011, the maximum potential future payments guaranteed or committed by the Company under these arrangements were approximately $3.1 billion and the
Company had recorded a related liability of $20 million.         Other Contingent Liabilities     
    Visa Restructuring and Card Association
Litigation      The Company s payment services business issues and acquires credit and debit card transactions through the
Visa U.S.A. Inc. card association or its affiliates (collectively  Visa ). In 2007, Visa completed a restructuring and issued shares of Visa Inc. common stock to its financial institution members in contemplation of its initial public
offering ( IPO ) completed in the first quarter of 2008 (the  Visa Reorganization ). As a part of the Visa Reorganization, the Company received its proportionate number of shares of Visa Inc. common stock, which were subsequently
converted to Class B shares of Visa Inc. ( Class B shares ). The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have been named as defendants along with Visa U.S.A. Inc. ( Visa U.S.A. ) and MasterCard International
(collectively, the  Card Associations ), as well as several other banks, in antitrust lawsuits challenging the practices of the Card Associations (the  Visa Litigation ). Visa U.S.A. member banks have a contingent obligation to
indemnify Visa Inc. under the Visa U.S.A. bylaws (which were modified at the time of the restructuring in October 2007) for potential losses arising from the Visa Litigation. The indemnification by the Visa U.S.A. member banks has no specific
maximum amount. The Company has also entered into judgment and loss sharing agreements with Visa U.S.A. and certain other banks in order to apportion financial responsibilities arising from any potential adverse judgment or negotiated settlements
related to the Visa Litigation.       In 2007 and 2008, Visa announced settlement agreements relating to certain of the Visa
Litigation matters. Visa U.S.A. member banks remain obligated to indemnify Visa Inc. for potential losses arising from the remaining Visa Litigation. Using proceeds from its IPO and through reductions to the conversion ratio applicable to the
Class B shares held by Visa U.S.A. member banks, Visa Inc. funds an escrow account for the benefit of member financial institutions to fund the expenses of the Visa Litigation, as well as the members  proportionate share of any judgments
or settlements that may arise out of the Visa Litigation. The receivable related to the escrow account is classified in other liabilities as a direct offset to the related Visa Litigation contingent liability. The Company recognized gains of $51
million in 2011, $72 million in 2010 and $39 million in 2009, related to Visa Inc. s funding of the escrow account and resulting reduction in the conversion ratio applicable to the Class B shares. The amount recognized in 2011 was net of an
additional $58 million increase to the Company s liability related to the remaining   

Visa Litigation matters. At December 31, 2011, the carrying amount of the Company s liability related to the remaining Visa Litigation matters, net of its share of the escrow fundings,
was zero. The remaining Class B shares held by the Company will be eligible for conversion to Class A shares, and thereby marketable, upon settlement of the Visa Litigation.        Checking Account Overdraft Fee Litigation      The Company is a defendant in three separate cases primarily challenging the Company s daily ordering of debit transactions posted to customer checking accounts for the period from 2003 to 2010. The
plaintiffs have requested class action treatment; however, no class has been certified. The court has denied a motion by the Company to dismiss these cases. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses against these matters, including class
certification. No specific damages claim has been made, and based on facts and circumstances, the Company believes the potential range of loss would not be material.         Other      During the second quarter of
2011, the Company and its two primary banking subsidiaries entered into Consent Orders with U.S. federal banking regulators regarding the Company s residential mortgage servicing and foreclosure processes. The banking regulators have
notified the Company of civil money penalties related to the Consent Orders, however, these penalties are not significant.       Other federal and state governmental authorities have reached a settlement agreement in principle with five major financial institutions regarding their mortgage origination, servicing, and foreclosure
activities. Those governmental authorities contacted other financial institutions, including the Company, to discuss their potential participation in a settlement. The Company has not agreed to any settlement at this point, however if a settlement
were reached it would likely include an agreement to comply with specified servicing standards, and settlement payments to governmental authorities as well as a monetary commitment that could be satisfied under various loan modification programs (in
addition to the programs the Company already has in place). The Company has accrued $130 million with respect to these and related matters.      The Company is subject to various other litigation, investigations and legal and administrative cases and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of its businesses. Due to their complex nature, it
may be years before some matters are resolved. While it is impossible to ascertain the ultimate resolution or range of financial liability with respect to these contingent matters, the Company believes that the aggregate amount of such liabilities
will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.   

NOTE 23      
          U.S. Bancorp (Parent Company)       
     Condensed Balance Sheet         

Condensed Statement of Income         

Condensed Statement of Cash Flows     

Transfer of funds (dividends, loans or advances)
from bank subsidiaries to the Company is restricted. Federal law requires loans to the Company or its affiliates to be secured and generally limits loans to the Company or an individual affiliate to 10 percent of each bank s unimpaired capital
and surplus. In the aggregate, loans to the Company and all affiliates cannot exceed 20 percent of each bank s unimpaired capital and surplus.      Dividend payments to the Company by its subsidiary banks are subject to regulatory review and statutory limitations and, in some instances, regulatory approval. The approval of the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency is required if total dividends by a national bank in any calendar year exceed the bank s net income for that year combined with its retained net income for the preceding two calendar years, or if the bank s
retained earnings are less than zero. Furthermore, dividends are restricted by the Comptroller of the Currency s minimum capital constraints for all national banks. Within these guidelines, all bank subsidiaries have the ability to pay
dividends without prior regulatory approval. The amount of dividends available to the parent company from the bank subsidiaries at December 31, 2011, was approximately $6.6 billion.   

NOTE 24  
          
    Subsequent Events       
   The Company has evaluated the impact of events that have occurred subsequent to December 31, 2011 through the date the
consolidated financial statements were filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Based on this evaluation, other than as recorded or disclosed within these consolidated financial statements and related notes, the Company has
determined none of these events were required to be recognized or disclosed.   

U.S. Bancorp    
    Consolidated Balance Sheet Five Year Summary (Unaudited)    

*   
   Not meaningful      

U.S. Bancorp    
    Consolidated Statement of Income   Five-Year Summary (Unaudited)    

U.S. Bancorp    
   Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)        

U.S. Bancorp    
   Supplemental Financial Data (Unaudited)        

(a)   
   Defined as total common shares less common stock held in treasury at December 31.      

(b)   
   Based on number of common stock shareholders of record at December 31.           Stock Price Range and Dividends         
    The common stock of U.S. Bancorp is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, under the ticker symbol "USB." At January 31,
2012, there were 52,466 holders of record of the Company's common stock.        Stock Performance Chart     

The following chart compares the cumulative total shareholder return on the Company's common stock during the five years ended December 31, 2011, with the
cumulative total return on the Standard   Poor's 500 Index and the KBW Bank Index. The comparison assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2006, in the Company's common stock and in each of the foregoing indices and assumes the reinvestment of
all dividends. The comparisons in the graph are based upon historical data and are not indicative of, nor intended to forecast, future performance of the Company s common stock.  

U.S. Bancorp    
     Consolidated Daily Average Balance Sheet and Related Yields and Rates (a) (Unaudited)     

*   
   Not meaningful      

(a)   
   Interest and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent.      

(b)   
   Interest income and rates on loans include loan fees. Nonaccrual loans are included in average loan balances.      

Company Information    
           General Business
Description    U.S. Bancorp is a multi-state financial services holding company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. U.S. Bancorp was incorporated in Delaware in 1929 and
operates as a financial holding company and a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. U.S. Bancorp provides a full range of financial services, including lending and depository services, cash management, foreign
exchange and trust and investment management services. It also engages in credit card services, merchant and ATM processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and leasing.      U.S. Bancorp s banking subsidiaries are engaged in the general banking business, principally in domestic markets. The subsidiaries range in size from $53 million to $236 billion in
deposits and provide a wide range of products and services to individuals, businesses, institutional organizations, governmental entities and other financial institutions. Commercial and consumer lending services are principally offered to customers
within the Company s domestic markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations and to large national customers focusing on specific targeted industries. Lending services include traditional credit products as well as credit card services,
leasing financing and import/export trade, asset-backed lending, agricultural finance and other products. Depository services include checking accounts, savings accounts and time certificate contracts. Ancillary services such as foreign exchange,
treasury management and receivable lock-box collection are provided to corporate customers. U.S. Bancorp s bank and trust subsidiaries provide a full range of asset management and fiduciary services for individuals, estates, foundations,
business corporations and charitable organizations.      U.S. Bancorp s non-banking subsidiaries primarily offer
investment and insurance products to the Company s customers principally within its markets, and mutual fund processing services to a broad range of mutual funds.   
  Banking and investment services are provided through a network of 3,085 banking offices principally operating in the
Midwest and West regions of the United States. The Company operates a network of 5,053 ATMs and provides 24-hour, seven day a week telephone customer service. Mortgage banking services are provided through banking offices and loan production offices
throughout the Company s markets. Consumer lending products may be originated through banking offices, indirect correspondents, brokers or other lending sources, and a consumer finance division. The Company is also one of the largest providers
of Visa      corporate and purchasing card services and corporate trust services in the United States. A
wholly-owned subsidiary, Elavon, Inc. ( Elavon ), provides merchant processing services directly to merchants and through a network of banking affiliations. Affiliates of Elavon provide similar merchant services in Canada, Mexico, Brazil
and segments of Europe. The Company also provides trust services in Europe. These foreign operations are not significant to the Company.      On a full-time equivalent basis, as of December 31, 2011, U.S. Bancorp employed 62,529 people.         Risk Factors    The following factors may adversely affect the Company s business,
financial results or stock price.        Industry Risk Factors            Difficult business and economic conditions may continue to adversely affect the financial services industry     The Company s business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and abroad. Although, the domestic and global economies generally have increasingly
stabilized from the dramatic downturn experienced in 2008 and 2009, and the financial markets have generally improved, business activities across a range of industries continue to face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and
the lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Heightened credit levels have further increased these difficulties. A continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company s
business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of the Company s common stock. Additionally, certain European countries have experienced credit deterioration primarily due to excessive debt levels,
poor economic conditions, and fiscal disorder. Deterioration in economic conditions in Europe could slow the recovery of the domestic economy or negatively impact the Company s borrowers or other counterparties that have direct or indirect
exposure to Europe. Further, dramatic declines in the housing and commercial real estate markets over the past several years, with falling real estate prices, increasing foreclosures and high unemployment, continue to negatively impact the credit
performance of real estate related loans and have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant write-downs of asset values by the Company and other financial institutions. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek
additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Additional negative market developments may further erode consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in
payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates. As was the case in 2008 and 2009, such developments could increase the Company s charge-offs and   

provision for credit losses. Continuing economic deterioration that affects household or corporate incomes could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services. A
worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the lingering effects of the difficult market conditions experienced by the Company and others in the financial services industry.          Recently passed and proposed legislation and rulemaking may adversely affect the Company     The United States government and the Company s regulators have recently passed and proposed legislation and rules that impact the Company, and the Company expects to continue to face increased
regulation. These laws and regulations may affect the manner in which the Company does business and the products and services that it provides, affect or restrict the Company s ability to compete in its current businesses or its ability to
enter into or acquire new businesses, reduce or limit the Company s revenue or impose additional fees, assessments or taxes on the Company, intensify the regulatory supervision of the Company and the financial services industry, and adversely
affect the Company s business operations or have other negative consequences.      The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act was signed into law in 2010 and mandates the most wide-ranging overhaul of financial industry regulation in decades. This legislation, among other things, establishes a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad
authority to administer and enforce a new federal regulatory framework of consumer financial regulation, changes the base for deposit insurance assessments, introduces regulatory rate-setting for interchange fees charged to merchants for debit card
transactions, enhances the regulation of consumer mortgage banking, limits the pre-emption of state laws applicable to national banks, and excludes certain instruments currently included in determining the Company s Tier 1 regulatory
capital ratio. Many of the legislation s provisions have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require rulemaking by various regulatory agencies. Accordingly, the Company cannot currently quantify the ultimate
impact of this legislation and the related future rulemaking, but expects that the legislation will have a detrimental impact on revenues and expenses, require the Company to change certain of its business practices, intensify the regulatory
supervision of the Company and the financial services industry, increase the Company s capital requirements and impose additional assessments and costs on the Company, and otherwise adversely affect the Company s business.   
      Other changes in the laws, regulations and policies governing financial services companies could
alter the Company s business environment and adversely affect operations     The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the
United States. Its fiscal and monetary policies determine in a large part the Company s cost of funds for lending and investing and the return that can be earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the Company s net
interest margin. Federal Reserve Board policies can also materially affect the value of financial instruments that the Company holds, such as debt securities, certain mortgage loans held for sale and mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ). Its
policies also can affect the Company s borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans or satisfy their obligations to the Company. Changes in policies of the Federal Reserve Board are beyond the
Company s control and the impact of changes in those policies on the Company s activities and results of operations can be difficult to predict.      The Company and its bank subsidiaries are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole.
Congress and state legislatures and federal and state agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes in statutes, regulations or policies could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable
ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products that the Company offers and/or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. The Company cannot predict whether any of this potential
legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it or any regulations would have on the Company s financial condition or results of operations.          The Company s lending businesses and the value of the loans and debt securities it holds may be adversely affected by economic conditions,
including a reversal or slowing of the current moderate recovery. Downward valuation of debt securities could also negatively impact the Company s capital position     Given the high
percentage of the Company s assets represented directly or indirectly by loans, and the importance of lending to its overall business, weak economic conditions are likely to have a negative impact on the Company s business and results of
operations. This could adversely impact loan utilization rates as well as delinquencies, defaults and customer ability to meet obligations under the loans. This is particularly the case during the period in which the aftermath of recessionary
conditions continues and the positive effects of economic recovery appear to be slow to materialize and unevenly spread among the Company s customers.      Further, weak economic conditions would likely have a negative impact on the Company s business, its ability to serve its customers, and its results of operations. Such conditions are likely to lead
to increases in the number of borrowers who become delinquent or default or otherwise demonstrate a decreased ability to meet their obligations under their loans. This   

would result in higher levels of nonperforming loans, net charge-offs, provision for credit losses and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. The value to the Company of other assets such
as investment securities, most of which are debt securities or other financial instruments supported by loans, similarly would be negatively impacted by widespread decreases in credit quality resulting from a weakening of the economy.   
      The Company could experience an unexpected inability to obtain needed liquidity     The Company s liquidity could be constrained by an unexpected inability to access the capital markets due to a variety of market dislocations or interruptions. If the Company is unable to meet its
funding needs on a timely basis, its business would be adversely affected. The Company s credit rating is important to its liquidity. A reduction in the Company s credit rating could adversely affect its liquidity and competitive position,
increase its funding costs or limit its access to the capital markets.          Loss of customer
deposits could increase the Company s funding costs     The Company relies on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding. The Company competes with banks and other
financial services companies for deposits. If the Company s competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, the Company s funding costs may increase, either because the Company raises its rates to avoid losing deposits or because the
Company loses deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs reduce the Company s net interest margin and net interest income. In addition, the Company s bank customers could take their money out of the
bank and put it in alternative investments. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return
tradeoff. When customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, the Company may lose a relatively low cost source of funds, increasing the Company s funding costs and reducing the Company s net interest income.
         The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect the
Company     The Company s ability to engage in routine funding or settlement transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other domestic or
foreign financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different counterparties, and the Company routinely executes and
settles transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions
about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions and impact the Company s predominately United States-based businesses or
the less significant merchant processing and trust businesses it operates in foreign countries. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of the Company s counterparty or client. In addition, the
Company s credit risk may be further increased when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due the Company. There is
no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect the Company s results of operations.          The financial services industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could intensify and adversely affect the Company s financial results     The Company operates in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, as well as continued industry consolidation
which may increase in connection with current economic and market conditions. This consolidation may produce larger, better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are capable of offering a wider array of financial products and
services at more competitive prices. The Company competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions, investment companies, credit card companies,
and a variety of other financial services and advisory companies. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. Many of the Company s
competitors have fewer regulatory constraints, and some have lower cost structures. Also, the potential need to adapt to industry changes in information technology systems, on which the Company and financial services industry are highly dependent,
could present operational issues and require capital spending.          The Company continually
encounters technological change     The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and
services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address customer needs by using
technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company s operations. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and
services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with   

technological change affecting the financial services industry could negatively affect the Company s revenue and profit.          Improvements in economic indicators disproportionately affecting the financial services industry may lag         improvements in the general economy     Should the stabilization of the
U.S. economy continue, the improvement of certain economic indicators, such as unemployment and real estate asset values and rents, may nevertheless continue to lag behind the overall economy. These economic indicators typically affect certain
industries, such as real estate and financial services, more significantly. Furthermore, financial services companies with a substantial lending business, like the Company s, are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make debt
service payments on loans. Should unemployment or real estate asset values fail to recover for an extended period of time, the Company could be adversely affected.          Changes in consumer use of banks and changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect the Company s financial
results     Technology and other changes now allow many consumers to complete financial transactions without using banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly
without going through a bank. This process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as  disintermediation,  could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. In
addition, changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect the Company s operations, and the Company may be unable to timely develop competitive new products and services in response to these changes that are accepted by
new and existing customers.          Changes in interest rates could reduce the Company s
net interest income     The operations of financial institutions such as the Company are dependent to a large degree on net interest income, which is the difference between interest
income from loans and investments and interest expense on deposits and borrowings. An institution s net interest income is significantly affected by market rates of interest, which in turn are affected by prevailing economic conditions, by the
fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and by the policies of various regulatory agencies. Like all financial institutions, the Company s balance sheet is affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Volatility in interest rates
can also result in the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments. Direct investments, such as U.S. Government and corporate securities and other investment vehicles (including mutual funds) generally pay higher
rates of return than financial institutions, because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements.        Company Risk Factors
           The Company s allowance for loan losses may not cover actual
losses     When the Company loans money, or commits to loan money, it incurs credit risk, or the risk of losses if its borrowers do not repay their loans. Like all financial institutions,
the Company reserves for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The amount of the Company s allowance for loan losses is based on its historical loss experience
as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with its loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. The stress on the United States
economy and the local economies in which the Company does business may be greater or last longer than expected, resulting in, among other things, greater than expected deterioration in credit quality of the loan portfolio, or in the value of
collateral securing those loans. In addition, the process the Company uses to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic
predictions might impair the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. The Company also makes loans to borrowers where it does not
have or service the loan with the first lien on the property securing its loan. For loans in a junior lien position, the Company may not have access to information on the position or performance of the first lien when it is held and serviced by a
third party and this may adversely affect the accuracy of the loss estimates for loans of these types. Increases in the Company s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses
could materially and adversely affect its financial results.          The Company may suffer
increased losses in its loan portfolio despite its underwriting practices     The Company seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting
practices. These practices generally include: analysis of a borrower s credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers; and verification of liquid
assets. Although the Company believes that its underwriting criteria are, and historically have been, appropriate for the various kinds of loans it makes, the Company has already incurred high levels of losses on loans that have met these criteria,
and may continue to experience higher than expected losses depending on economic factors and consumer behavior. In addition, the Company s ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the models and approaches it
uses to select, manage, and underwrite its customers become less predictive of future behaviors. Finally, the Company may have higher credit risk, or   

experience higher credit losses, to the extent its loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral. For example, the Company s
credit risk and credit losses can increase if borrowers who engage in similar activities are uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions, or by regulation, such as regulation related to climate change. Continued
deterioration in economic conditions or real estate values in states or regions where the Company has relatively larger concentrations of residential or commercial real estate could result in significantly higher credit costs. For example, at
December 31, 2011, 21.3 percent of the Company s commercial real estate loans and 11.7 percent of its residential mortgages were secured by collateral in California. Continued deterioration in real estate values and underlying economic
conditions in California could result in significantly higher credit losses to the Company.   
      The Company faces increased risk arising out of its mortgage lending and servicing
businesses     During 2011, the Company and its two primary banking subsidiaries, entered into consent orders with various regulatory authorities as a result of an interagency horizontal
review of the foreclosure practices of the 14 largest mortgage servicers in the United States. The consent orders mandated certain changes to the Company s mortgage servicing and foreclosure processes. The Company has made significant progress
in complying with the consent orders. In addition to the interagency examination by U.S. federal banking regulators, the Company has received inquiries from other governmental, legislative and regulatory authorities on this topic, has
cooperated, and continues to cooperate, with these inquiries. These inquiries may lead to other administrative, civil or criminal proceedings, possibly resulting in remedies including fines, penalties, restitution, or alterations in the
Company s business practices. Additionally, reputational damage arising from the consent orders or from other inquiries and industry-wide publicity could also have an adverse effect upon the Company s existing mortgage business and could
reduce future business opportunities.      In addition to governmental or regulatory investigations, the Company, like other
companies with residential mortgage origination and servicing operations, faces the risk of class actions and other litigation arising out of these operations. The Company has reserved for these matters, but the ultimate resolution could exceed
those reserves.          Changes in interest rates can reduce the value of the Company s
mortgage servicing rights and mortgages held for sale, and can make its mortgage banking revenue         volatile from quarter to
quarter, which can reduce its         earnings     The Company has a
portfolio of MSRs, which is the right to service a mortgage loan collect principal, interest and escrow amounts for a fee. The Company initially carries its MSRs using a fair value measurement of the present value of the estimated future
net servicing income, which includes assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. As interest rates fall, prepayments tend to increase as borrowers
refinance, and the fair value of MSR s can decrease, which in turn reduces the Company s earnings.      An increase in
interest rates tends to lead to a decrease in demand for mortgage loans, reducing the Company s income from loan originations. Although revenue from the Company s MSRs may increase at the same time through increases in fair value, this
offsetting revenue effect, or  natural hedge,  is not perfectly correlated in amount or timing. The Company typically uses derivatives and other instruments to hedge its mortgage banking interest rate risk, but this hedging activity may
not always be successful. The Company could incur significant losses from its hedging activities, and there may be periods where it elects not to hedge its mortgage banking interest rate risk. As a result of these factors, mortgage banking revenue
can experience significant volatility.          Maintaining or increasing the Company s
market share may depend on lowering prices and market acceptance of new products and services     The Company s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt its products and
services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. Lower prices can reduce the Company s net interest margin and revenues from its fee-based products and services. In
addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services, could require the Company to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt the Company s existing products and services. Also, these and other capital
investments in the Company s businesses may not produce expected growth in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. The Company might not be successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of its
products and services, or developing and maintaining loyal customers.          The Company relies
on its employees, systems and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect its operations     The Company operates in many different businesses in
diverse markets and relies on the ability of its employees and systems to process a   

high number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from the Company s operations, including, but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of
the Company, unauthorized access to its computer systems, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements and
business continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business
decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. Third parties with which the Company does business could also be sources of operational risk to the Company, including risks relating to breakdowns or
failures of those parties  systems or employees. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, the Company could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action and suffer
damage to its reputation.      If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in the Company s
possession were to be mishandled or misused, the Company could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. This mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if the information were erroneously provided to
parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of the Company s systems, employees, or counterparties, or where the information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.   
      The change in residual value of leased assets may have an adverse impact on the Company s
financial results     The Company engages in leasing activities and is subject to the risk that the residual value of the property under lease will be less than the Company s
recorded asset value. Adverse changes in the residual value of leased assets can have a negative impact on the Company s financial results. The risk of changes in the realized value of the leased assets compared to recorded residual values
depends on many factors outside of the Company s control, including supply and demand for the assets, condition of the assets at the end of the lease term, and other economic factors.          Negative publicity could damage the Company s reputation and adversely impact its business and financial results     Reputation risk, or the risk to the Company s business, earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in the Company s business and increased substantially because of the financial
crisis beginning in 2008. The reputation of the financial services industry in general has been damaged as a result of the financial crisis and other matters affecting the financial services industry, including mortgage foreclosure issues. Negative
public opinion about the financial services industry generally or the Company specifically could adversely affect the Company s ability to keep and attract customers, and expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action. Negative
publicity can result from the Company s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and
related disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Because most of the Company s businesses operate under the
 U.S. Bank  brand, actual or alleged conduct by one business can result in negative publicity about other businesses the Company operates. Although the Company takes steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with customers and
other constituencies, the Company, as a large diversified financial services company with a high industry profile, is inherently exposed to this risk.          The Company s reported financial results depend on management s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and
estimates     The Company s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. The
Company s management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management s judgment regarding the most
appropriate manner to report the Company s financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances,
yet might result in the Company s reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.      Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting the Company s financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are
uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include: the allowance for credit losses; estimations of fair value; the valuation
of purchased loans and related indemnification assets; the valuation of MSRs; the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets; and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, the Company may be required to
do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on its goodwill and other intangible

asset balances; or significantly increase its accrued taxes liability. For more information, refer to  Critical Accounting Policies  in this Annual Report.   
      Changes in accounting standards could materially impact the Company s financial
statements     From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company s
financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised
standard retroactively, resulting in the Company s restating prior period financial statements.          Acquisitions may not produce revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels or within timeframes originally anticipated and may result in unforeseen integration difficulties and dilution to existing
shareholders     The Company regularly explores opportunities to acquire financial services businesses or assets and may also consider opportunities to acquire other banks or financial
institutions. The Company cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions.      There can be no assurance that the
Company s acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results, including results related to expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition.
Integration efforts could divert management s attention and resources, which could adversely affect the Company s operations or results. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss of key
employees, disruption of the Company s business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect the Company s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the
acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected.      The Company must generally receive federal regulatory approval before it can acquire a bank or bank holding company. The Company cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required
regulatory approvals will be granted. The Company may be required to sell banks or branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approval.      Future acquisitions could be material to the Company and it may issue additional shares of stock to pay for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders  ownership interests.
         If new laws were enacted that restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries
to share information about customers, the Company s financial results could be negatively affected     The Company s business model depends on sharing information among the
family of companies owned by U.S. Bancorp to better satisfy the Company s customer needs. Laws that restrict the ability of the companies owned by U.S. Bancorp to share information about customers could negatively affect the
Company s revenue and profit.          The Company s business could suffer if the
Company fails to attract and retain skilled people     The Company s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people
in most activities the Company engages in can be intense. The Company may not be able to hire the best people or to keep them. Recent strong scrutiny of compensation practices has resulted and may continue to result in additional regulation and
legislation in this area as well as additional legislative and regulatory initiatives, and there is no assurance that this will not cause increased turnover or impede the Company s ability to retain and attract the highest caliber employees.
         The Company relies on other companies to provide key components of the Company s
business infrastructure     Third party vendors provide key components of the Company s business infrastructure, such as internet connections, network access and mutual fund
distribution. While the Company has selected these third party vendors carefully, it does not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing the Company their services for any reason
or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect the Company s ability to deliver products and services to the Company s customers and otherwise to conduct its business. Replacing these third party vendors could also
entail significant delay and expense.          The Company has risk related to legal
proceedings     The Company is involved in judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising from its business activities. The Company establishes reserves for
legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. The Company may still incur legal costs for a matter even if it has not established a reserve. In addition, the actual cost of resolving
a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. The ultimate resolution of any pending or future legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect the Company s
results of operations and financial condition.   

The Company is exposed to risk of environmental
liability when it takes title to properties     In the course of the Company s business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, the Company could be
subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Company may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in
connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In
addition, if the Company is the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, it may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If the Company
becomes subject to significant environmental liabilities, its financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.   
      The Company s business and financial performance could be adversely affected, directly or
indirectly, by disasters, by terrorist activities or by international hostilities     Neither the occurrence nor the potential impact of disasters, terrorist activities or international
hostilities can be predicted. However, these occurrences could impact the Company directly (for example, by interrupting the Company s systems, which could prevent the Company from obtaining deposits, originating loans and processing and
controlling its flow of business, causing significant damage to the Company s facilities or otherwise preventing the Company from conducting business in the ordinary course), or indirectly as a result of their impact on the Company s
borrowers, depositors, other customers, suppliers or other counterparties (for example, by damaging properties pledged as collateral for the Company s loans or impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans). The Company could
also suffer adverse consequences to the extent that disasters, terrorist activities or international hostilities affect the financial markets or the economy in general or in any particular region. These types of impacts could lead, for example, to
an increase in delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults that could result in the Company experiencing higher levels of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provisions for credit losses.   
  The Company s ability to mitigate the adverse consequences of these occurrences is in part dependent on the quality of the
Company s resiliency planning, and the Company s ability, if any, to anticipate the nature of any such event that occurs. The adverse impact of disasters, terrorist activities or international hostilities also could be increased to the
extent that there is a lack of preparedness on the part of national or regional emergency responders or on the part of other organizations and businesses that the Company transacts with, particularly those that it depends upon, but has no control
over. Additionally, the nature and level of natural disasters may be exacerbated by global climate change.          The Company s information systems may experience interruptions or breaches in security     The Company relies heavily on communications and
information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions to its accounting, deposit, loan and other systems, and could adversely affect its customer
relationships. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of these possible events, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur,
that it will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of the Company s systems could damage its reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny, or
expose it to civil litigation and possible financial liability.          The Company relies on
dividends from its subsidiaries for its liquidity needs     The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its bank subsidiaries and non-bank subsidiaries. The Company receives
a significant portion of its cash from dividends paid by its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Company s stock and interest and principal on its debt. Various federal and state laws and
regulations limit the amount of dividends that its bank subsidiaries and certain of its non-bank subsidiaries may pay to the Company without regulatory approval. Also, the Company s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a
subsidiary s liquidation or reorganization is subject to prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors, except to the extent that any of the Company s claims as a creditor of that subsidiary may be recognized.   
      The Company has non-banking businesses that are subject to various risks and
uncertainties     The Company is a diversified financial services company, and the Company s business model is based on a mix of businesses that provide a broad range of products and
services delivered through multiple distribution channels. In addition to banking, the Company provides payment services, investments, mortgages and corporate and personal trust services. Although the Company believes its diversity helps lessen the
effect of downturns in any one segment of its industry, it also means the Company s earnings could be subject to various specific risks and uncertainties related to these non-banking businesses.   
      The Company s stock price can be volatile     The Company s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including: actual or anticipated variations in the Company s quarterly operating results; recommendations by
securities analysts; significant acquisitions or business combinations; strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or the Company s   

competitors; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; new technology used or services offered by the Company s competitors;
news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, as well as
interest rate changes, currency fluctuations, or unforeseen events such as terrorist attacks could cause the Company s stock price to decrease regardless of the Company s operating results.   

Executive Officers    
         Richard K. Davis       Mr. Davis is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Davis, 54, has served as Chairman of U.S. Bancorp since December 2007, Chief Executive Officer since
December 2006 and President since October 2004. He also served as Chief Operating Officer from October 2004 until December 2006. Mr. Davis has held management positions with the Company since joining Star Banc Corporation, one of its
predecessors, in 1993 as Executive Vice President.       Jennie P. Carlson       Ms. Carlson is Executive Vice President, Human Resources, of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Carlson, 51, has served in this position since January 2002. Until that time, she served as Executive Vice
President, Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of U.S. Bancorp since the merger of Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February 2001. From 1995 until the merger, she was General Counsel and Secretary of Firstar Corporation
and Star Banc Corporation.       Andrew Cecere       Mr. Cecere is Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Cecere, 51, has served in this position since February 2007. Until that time, he served as Vice Chairman, Wealth
Management and Securities Services of U.S. Bancorp since the merger of Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February 2001. Previously, he had served as an executive officer of the former U.S. Bancorp, including as Chief Financial
Officer from May 2000 through February 2001.       Terrance R. Dolan       Mr. Dolan is Vice Chairman, Wealth Management and Securities Services, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Dolan, 50, has served in this position since July 2010. From September 1998 to July 2010,
Mr. Dolan served as U.S. Bancorp s Controller. He additionally held the title of Executive Vice President from January 2002 until June 2010 and Senior Vice President from September 1998 until January 2002.   
   Richard C. Hartnack       Mr. Hartnack is Vice
Chairman, Consumer and Small Business Banking, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hartnack, 66, has served in this position since April 2005, when he joined U.S. Bancorp. Prior to joining U.S. Bancorp, he served as Vice Chairman of Union Bank
of California from 1991 to 2005 with responsibility for Community Banking and Investment Services.       Richard J. Hidy    
  Mr. Hidy is Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hidy, 49, has served in this position since 2005. From
2003 until 2005, he served as Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel of U.S. Bancorp, having served as Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel of U.S. Bancorp and Firstar Corporation since 1999.   
   Joseph C. Hoesley       Mr. Hoesley is Vice
Chairman, Commercial Real Estate, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hoesley, 57, has served in this position since June 2006. From June 2002 until June 2006, he served as Executive Vice President and National Group Head of Commercial Real Estate at
U.S. Bancorp, having previously served as Senior Vice President and Group Head of Commercial Real Estate since joining U.S. Bancorp in 1992.   

Pamela A. Joseph       Ms. Joseph is Vice Chairman, Payment Services, of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Joseph, 52, has served in this position since December 2004. Since November 2004, she has been Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of Elavon Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp. Prior to that time, she had been President and Chief Operating Officer of Elavon Inc. since February 2000.       Howell D. McCullough III       Mr. McCullough is Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer
of U.S. Bancorp and Head of U.S. Bancorp s Enterprise Revenue Office. Mr. McCullough, 55, has served in these positions since September 2007. From July 2005 until September 2007, he served as Director of Strategy and Acquisitions
of the Payment Services business of U.S. Bancorp. He also served as Chief Financial Officer of the Payment Services business from October 2006 until September 2007. From March 2001 until July 2005, he served as Senior Vice President and
Director of Investor Relations at U.S. Bancorp.       Lee R. Mitau       Mr. Mitau is Executive Vice President and General Counsel of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Mitau, 63, has served in this position since 1995. Mr. Mitau also serves as Corporate Secretary. Prior to
1995 he was a partner at the law firm of Dorsey   Whitney LLP.       P.W. Parker       Mr. Parker is Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Parker, 55, has served in this position since October 2007. From March 2005 until October 2007, he
served as Executive Vice President of Credit Portfolio Management of U.S. Bancorp, having served as Senior Vice President of Credit Portfolio Management of U.S. Bancorp since January 2002.   
   Richard B. Payne, Jr.       Mr. Payne is Vice
Chairman, Wholesale Banking, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Payne, 64, has served in this position since November 2010, when he assumed the additional responsibility for Commercial Banking at U.S. Bancorp. From July 2006, when he joined
U.S. Bancorp, until November 2010, Mr. Payne served as Vice Chairman, Corporate Banking at U.S. Bancorp. Prior to joining U.S. Bancorp, he served as Executive Vice President for National City Corporation in Cleveland, with
responsibility for Capital Markets, from 2001 to 2006.       Jeffry H. von Gillern       Mr. von Gillern is Vice Chairman, Technology and Operations Services, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. von Gillern, 46, has served in this position since July 2010. From April 2001, when he joined
U.S. Bancorp, until July 2010, Mr. von Gillern served as Executive Vice President of U.S. Bancorp, additionally serving as Chief Information Officer from July 2007 until July 2010.   

Directors    
         Richard K. Davis  1      ,6  
          Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer    
  U.S. Bancorp      Minneapolis, Minnesota
      Douglas M. Baker, Jr.  3      ,6  
          Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    
  Ecolab Inc.      (Cleaning and sanitizing products)
     St. Paul, Minnesota   
   Y. Marc Belton  3      ,4        
   Executive Vice President, Global Strategy,    
   Growth and Marketing Innovation       General
Mills, Inc.      (Consumer food products)   
  Minneapolis, Minnesota       Victoria
Buyniski Gluckman  2      ,4            Retired
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer       United Medical Resources, Inc.,      a wholly owned subsidiary of      UnitedHealth Group Incorporated   
  (Healthcare benefits administration)   
  Cincinnati, Ohio       Arthur D.
Collins, Jr.  1      ,2,5        
   Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer       Medtronic, Inc.      (Medical device and technology)   
  Chicago, Illinois       Roland A.
Hernandez  3      ,4        
   Founding Principal and Chief Executive Officer       Hernandez Media Ventures      (Media)      Pasadena, California       Joel W. Johnson  3      ,6  
          Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    
  Hormel Foods Corporation      (Consumer food
products)      Scottsdale, Arizona       Olivia F. Kirtley  1      ,3,5            Business Consultant       (Consulting)      Louisville, Kentucky       Jerry W. Levin  1      ,2,5  
          Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    
  Wilton Brands Inc.      (Consumer products) and
      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer       JW Levin Partners LLC      (Private investment and advisory)   
  New York, New York       David B.
O Maley  2      ,5        
   Executive Chairman and Retired President    
   and Chief Executive Officer       Ohio
National Financial Services, Inc.      (Insurance)      Cincinnati, Ohio       O dell M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H.  1      ,3,4        
   President       Cincinnati State Technical and
Community College      (Higher Education)   
  Cincinnati, Ohio       Richard G.
Reiten  2      ,3            Retired
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer       Northwest Natural Gas Company      (Natural gas utility)      Portland, Oregon   
   Craig D. Schnuck  4      ,6        
   Former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer       Schnuck Markets, Inc.      (Food retail)      St. Louis, Missouri       Patrick T. Stokes  1      ,2,6  
          Former Chairman and Former Chief Executive Officer    
  Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc.      (Consumer
products)      St. Louis, Missouri       Doreen Woo Ho  4      ,6            President       San Francisco Port Commission   
  (Government)      San Francisco, California
          1. Executive Committee    
   2. Compensation and Human Resources Committee        3. Audit
Committee        4. Community Reinvestment and Public Policy Committee        5. Governance Committee        6. Risk Management Committee    

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 9
 d261300dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

EXHIBIT 21        SUBSIDIARIES OF U.S. BANCORP        (JURISDICTIONS OF ORGANIZATION SHOWN IN
PARENTHESES)       1003 College Station, LLC (Delaware)      101 Belmont Avenue, Inc. (Illinois)      1021 Anniston, Inc. (Illinois)   
  111 Tower Investors, Inc. (Minnesota)      126
Luciana, Inc. (Illinois)      1380-1390 Pear Avenue, LLC (California)      1409 Webb Street, Inc. (Illinois)      14707 Colfax, Inc. (Illinois)   
  1717 Ninth Street, Inc. (Illinois)      17351 W.
Sunset Blvd., Inc. (Illinois)      180 North Robertson, LLC (California)      1823 Southpark, LLC (Delaware)      1900-2200 Powell Street, LLC (California)   
  2045 Myrtle House, LLC (Arizona)      212 Keech
Street, Inc. (Illinois)      235 Pharr Road, Inc. (Illinois)      2490 Moriah, Inc. (Illinois)      273 W Alpine Street Apartments LLC (California)   
  275 Columbiana, Inc. (Illinois)      2800 McCulloch
Blvd. LLC (California)      295 Concord, Inc. (Illinois)      300 S. Euclid Street LLC (California)      30643-30685 Union City Blvd., Inc. (California)   
  310 Brentwood, Inc. (Illinois)      329 Front
Street, Inc. (Illinois)      367 Genesee, Inc. (Illinois)      3812-3825 Branding Iron Place, LLC (California)      40 South Main Street Corporation (Illinois)
     4110 Midland, LLC (Delaware)      445
South Street, Inc. (Illinois)      4696 San Felipe Road, LLC (California)      4905 Waco, LLC (Delaware)      632 Lindero Canyon LLC (California)   
  689 North Capitol Avenue, LLC (California)      910
NE Third Avenue, Inc. (Illinois)      928-950 Hornblend, LLC (California)      Access Mortgage Solutions, LLC (Delaware)   

Allen Street, Corp. (Illinois)      Andover Hospitality, Inc. (Illinois)      Arbors/Havenwood Holdings, Inc. (Illinois)   
  Armada Ontario Development LLC (California)   
  Armour Boulevard Property, Inc. (Illinois)   
  Azusa Monrovia Holdings, LLC (California)   
  Bannings Homes, LLC (California)      Barstow
Holdings, LLC (California)      BEG Homes, LLC (California)      Bremerton Suites, Corp. (Illinois)      Brooks Avenue Holdings, Inc. (Illinois)   
  Canterbury Crossing, Inc. (Illinois)      Cavender
Financial, Inc. (Illinois)      CC 223 Andover Park East Tukwila, LLC (Washington)      CC 3150 Touti Joliet, LLC (Illinois)      CC Merrillville, LLC (Indiana)   
  C est La Vie, Inc. (Minnesota)      CF Title
Co. (Delaware)      Cheyenne Court, Inc. (Illinois)      College Avenue/Willow Ventures, Inc. (Illinois)      Daimler Title Co. (Delaware)   
  DCT Burnet Townhomes, LLC (California)      Downtown
Mall Associates Limited Partnership (Minnesota)      DRH Investment, Inc. (California)      DSL Service Company (California)      Eclipse Funding, LLC (Delaware)   
  Elan Life Insurance Company, Inc. (Arizona)   
  Elavon Canada Company (Canada)      Elavon Do Brasil
Solucoes De Pagamento S.A. (Brazil)      Elavon European Holdings B.V. (Netherlands)      Elavon European Holdings C.V. (Netherlands)      Elavon Financial Services Limited (Ireland)
     Elavon Latin American Holdings, LLC (Delaware)      Elavon Merchant Services Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. (Mexico)      Elavon Mexico Holding Company, S.A.
de C.V. (Mexico)      Elavon Operations Company, S. de R.I. de C.V. (Mexico)      Elavon Puerto Rico, Inc. (Puerto Rico)      Elavon Services Company, S. de R.I. de C.V. (Mexico)
     Elavon, Inc. (Georgia)      EuroConex
Belgium BVBA (Belgium)      EuroConex GB Ltd. (United Kingdom)      EuroConex Technologies Limited (Ireland)   

Evans   17th Street, LLC (Wyoming)      Fairfield Financial Group, Inc. (Illinois)      First Bank LaCrosse Building Corp. (Wisconsin)
     First LaCrosse Properties (Wisconsin)   
  Firstar Capital Corporation (Ohio)      Firstar
Development, LLC (Delaware)      Firstar Realty, L.L.C. (Illinois)      Firstar Trade Services Corporation (Wisconsin)      Fixed Income Client Solutions, LLC (Delaware)
     Forecom Challenger, Inc. (Illinois)   
  Forecom Properties, Inc. (Minnesota)      Galaxy
Funding, Inc. (Delaware)      Gregory Street Properties, Inc. (Illinois)      GTLT, Inc. (Delaware)      Harvard Avenue Property, LLC (Georgia)   
  HOF Financial I, LLC (Delaware)      Holdings at
Cedar Post, Inc. (Illinois)      Holyoke Financial, Inc. (Illinois)      Homewood/Flossmoor Office Properties, Inc. (Illinois)      Hooper Real Estate Holdings, LLC
(California)      Hotel Eleven New Member, LLC (Delaware)      Housing Capital Company (Minnesota)      HPM, Inc. (Montana)   
  HTD Leasing LLC (Delaware)      HVT, Inc. (Delaware)
     Jackson Street Holdings, Inc. (Illinois)      Key Merchant Services, LLC (Delaware)      Lilac Ranch Development LLC (California)   
  LM Orlando Hospitality, Inc. (Illinois)      Long
Beach 4th Place LLC (California)      Mandalay Bay Development LLC (California)      Marcella Holdings, Inc. (Illinois)      Marketplace Retail Associates, LLC (California)   
  MB-DVR Town Center Associates, LLC (California)   
  MBS-UI Sub-CDE XVI, LLC (Delaware)      Meade Court,
Inc. (Illinois)      Mercantile Mortgage Financial Company (Illinois)      Midwest Indemnity Inc. (Vermont)      Mississippi Valley Life Insurance Company (Arizona)   
  Mitchell Development, LLC (California)      MMCA
Lease Services, Inc. (Delaware)      MMH Property Holdings, LLC (Delaware)   

Morse/Oakley Property, Inc. (Illinois)      MS Homes, LLC (California)      Murrieta Apartments, LLC (California)   
  New Cottonwood Holdings, LLC (California)      NFC
Sahara Corporation (Nevada)      NILT, Inc. (Delaware)      North Pullman 111th, Inc. (Illinois)      North Pullman Maryland, Inc. (Illinois)   
  North Pullman Properties, Inc. (Illinois)      North
Pullman Woodlawn, Inc. (Illinois)      Northwest Boulevard, Inc. (Minnesota)      NuMaMe, LLC (Delaware)      Old 215 Frontage Road LLC (California)   
  On Iowa Street Associates LLC (California)      One
Eleven Investors LLC (Delaware)      Ontario Area 23 Homes, LLC (California)      Ontario Area 8 Development LLC (California)      Ontario West Haven Development LLC (California)
     Orange Avenue Homes, LLC (California)   
  P.I.B., Inc. (Minnesota)      Pacific-Odyssey
Development LLC (California)      Palmdale 1000 Development LLC (California)      Park Bank Initiatives, Inc. (Illinois)      Park National Deferred Exchange Corporation (Illinois)
     Park West Properties, Inc. (Illinois)   
  Parkside Financial, Inc. (Illinois)      Plainsboro
Financial, Inc. (Illinois)      Plaza Towers Holdings, LLC (Minnesota)      Polaris Mart LLC (California)      Pomona Financial Services, Inc. (California)   
  Portage Properties, Inc. (Illinois)      Portland
Tower Investors LLC (Delaware)      Pullman Park Development, LLC (Illinois)      Pullman Park Investment Fund I, LLC (Missouri)      Pullman Transformation, Inc. (Delaware)
     Quasar Distributors, LLC (Wisconsin)   
  Rampart Hospitality, Inc. (Illinois)      RBC
Community Development Sub 3, LLC (Delaware)      Redwood Capital Finance Company, LLC (Delaware)   
  Rio Vista Property, LLC (California)      RIVT, Inc.
(Delaware)      Roosevelt Texas Holdings, Inc. (Missouri)   

Ross Ranch Development LLC (California)      RTRT, Inc. (Delaware)      SA California Group, Inc. (Minnesota)   
  SA Challenger, Inc. (Minnesota)      SA Group PGI
7 8, Inc. (Minnesota)      SA Group Properties, Inc. (Minnesota)      SA Ladd Tower, LLC (Delaware)      SA PGA, LLC (Delaware)   
  San Jacinto Property Holdings LLC (California)   
  SCR Crossing, Inc. (Illinois)      Silver Oaks
Homes, LLC (California)      Sixth   Redwood LLC (California)      South Carolina Crossing Holdings, Inc. (Illinois)      South Central Mortgage Solutions, LLC
(Delaware)      Southbridge Financial, Inc. (Illinois)      Sycada Holdings Company (Delaware)      Syncada, LLC (Delaware)   
  Tanglewood Hospitality Venture, Inc. (Illinois)   
  Tanglewood Management Services, Inc. (Illinois)   
  Tarquad Corporation (Missouri)      The Miami Valley
Insurance Company (Arizona)      Tiburon Communities Acquisition, LLC (Delaware)      TMTT, Inc. (Delaware)      Trails 96 Development LLC (California)   
  Turner Empire Development LLC (California)   
  Tuscany Woods Holdings, Inc. (Illinois)      U.S.
Bancorp Advantage LLC (Minnesota)      U.S. Bancorp Asset Management, Inc. (Delaware)      U.S. Bancorp Community Development Corporation (Minnesota)      U.S. Bancorp Community Investment
Corporation (Delaware)      U.S. Bancorp Construction Funding, Inc. (Minnesota)      U.S. Bancorp Foundation (Minnesota)      U.S. Bancorp Fund Services, LLC (Wisconsin)   
  U.S. Bancorp Government Leasing and Finance, Inc. (Minnesota)      U.S. Bancorp Insurance and Investments, Inc. (Wyoming)      U.S. Bancorp Insurance Company, Inc.
(Vermont)      U.S. Bancorp Insurance Services of Montana, Inc. (Montana)      U.S. Bancorp Insurance Services, LLC (Wisconsin)      U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc. (Delaware)
     U.S. Bancorp Missouri Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Fund, LLC (Missouri)      U.S. Bancorp Mortgage Professionals, LLC (Delaware)      U.S. Bancorp National Account Services LLC
(Delaware)   

U.S. Bancorp Service Providers LLC (Delaware)      U.S. Bancorp Title Services, Inc. (Wisconsin)      U.S. Bank National Association (a nationally
chartered banking association)      U.S. Bank National Association ND (a nationally chartered banking association)   
  U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association (a nationally chartered banking association)      U.S. Bank Trust National Association (a nationally chartered banking association)      U.S. Bank Trust
National Association SD (a nationally chartered banking association)      U.S. Bank Trustees Limited (United Kingdom)   
  USB Advantage Investment, LLC (Delaware)      USB
Americas Holdings Company (Delaware)      USB Capital Resources, Inc. (Delaware)      USB Capital VIII (Delaware)      USB Capital IX (Delaware)   
  USB Capital X (Delaware)      USB Capital XI
(Delaware)      USB Capital XII (Delaware)   
  USB Capital XIII (Delaware)      USB European
Holdings Company (Delaware)      USB Funding LLC (Delaware)      USB Global Investments, LLC (Delaware)      USB Leasing LLC (Delaware)   
  USB Leasing LT (Delaware)      USB Lending Support
Services, LLC (Delaware)      USB Netherlands B.V. (Netherlands)      USB Realty Corp. (Delaware)      USB Trade Services Limited (Hong Kong)   
  USBCDE, LLC (Delaware)      USBIS Credit Insurance
Services, Inc. (Montana)      Village Green Homes, LLC (California)      Villagio Property Holdings, LLC (California)      Voyager Fleet Systems, Inc. (Delaware)   
  VT Inc. (Alabama)      Warren   Devonshire LLC
(California)      West 47th Street Corporation (Illinois)      Westford Street Ventures, Inc. (Illinois)      Westmont Financial, Inc. (Illinois)   
  WMF Mortgage Services, LLC (Delaware)      Yucaipa
Retail Development, LLC (California)   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 10
 d261300dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG

![CDATA[Consent of Ernst   Young]]  

Exhibit 23       Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm      We consent to the incorporation by
reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of U.S. Bancorp of our reports dated      February 23, 2012, with respect to the consolidated financial
statements of U.S. Bancorp and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of U.S. Bancorp, included in the 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders of U.S. Bancorp.      We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:       
    of our reports dated February 23, 2012, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of U.S. Bancorp and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of U.S. Bancorp, included in the 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders of U.S. Bancorp, which is incorporated by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of U.S. Bancorp for the year ended
December 31, 2011.       

/s/     Ernst   Young LLP    
    Minneapolis, Minnesota      February 23, 2012   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 11
 d261300dex24.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

Power of Attorney 

Exhibit 24        U.S. BANCORP       Power of Attorney   
  KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each of the undersigned directors of U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Richard K. Davis, Andrew Cecere and Lee R. Mitau, and each of them, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead in any and
all capacities, to sign one or more Annual Reports for the Company s fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 on Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or such other form as any such attorney-in-fact may deem necessary
or desirable, any amendments thereto, and all additional amendments thereto, each in such form as they or any one of them may approve, and to file the same with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done so that such Annual Report shall comply with the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the applicable Rules and Regulations adopted or issued pursuant thereto, as fully and to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them or their substitute or resubstitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has set his or her hand this 17th day of January, 2012.       

/s/    Douglas M. Baker, Jr.  

/s/    Jerry W. Levin   
 
  Douglas M. Baker, Jr.  

Jerry W. Levin   

/s/    Y. Marc Belton  

/s/    David B. O Maley   
 
  Y. Marc Belton  

David B. O Maley   

/s/    Victoria Buyniski Gluckman  

/s/    O dell M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H.   
 
  Victoria Buyniski Gluckman  

O dell M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H.   

/s/    Arthur D. Collins, Jr.  

/s/    Richard G. Reiten   
 
  Arthur D. Collins, Jr.  

Richard G. Reiten   

/s/    Roland A. Hernandez   

/s/    Craig D. Schnuck   
 
  Roland A. Hernandez  

Craig D. Schnuck   

/s/    Joel W. Johnson  

/s/    Patrick T. Stokes   
 
  Joel W. Johnson  

Patrick T. Stokes   

/s/    Olivia F. Kirtley  

/s/    Doreen Woo Ho   
 
  Olivia F. Kirtley  

Doreen Woo Ho   

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 12
 d261300dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATE OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Certificate of Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.1        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        RULE 13a-14(a) UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934       I, Richard K. Davis, certify that:       

(1)  
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of U.S. Bancorp;         

(2)  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

(3)  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

(4)  
  The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a)  
  designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

(5)  
  The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.         

/ S /    R ICHARD  K. D AVIS    

Richard K. Davis   
 
  Dated: February 23, 2012  

Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 13
 d261300dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATE OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Certificate of Chief Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.2        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        RULE 13a-14(a) UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934       I, Andrew Cecere, certify that:       

(1)  
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of U.S. Bancorp;         

(2)  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

(3)  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

(4)  
  The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a)  
  designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

(5)  
  The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.         

/ S /    A NDREW  C ECERE    

Andrew Cecere   
 
  Dated: February 23, 2012  

Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 14
 d261300dex32.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER & CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

![CDATA[Certification of Chief Executive Officer   Chief Financial Officer]]  

EXHIBIT 32        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), do hereby certify that:   
  (1) The Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 (the  Form 10-K ) of the Company fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) The information contained in the Form 10-K fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.       

/ S /    R ICHARD  K.
D AVIS    

/ S /    A NDREW 
C ECERE     

Richard K. Davis  

Andrew Cecere   
 
   Chief Executive Officer   

Chief Financial Officer    

Dated: February 23, 2012  

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 15
 usb-20111231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 16
 usb-20111231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 17
 usb-20111231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 18
 usb-20111231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 19
 usb-20111231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 20
 usb-20111231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

