<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20130215_10-K_edgar_data_14272_0001193125-13-061678_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>26319315</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1593562</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5976924</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>6548647</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>7678553</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3803881</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>164</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>32</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-13-061678.hdr.sgml : 20130219
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20130215085525
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-13-061678
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		37
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20121231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20130215
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20130215

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BRISTOL MYERS SQUIBB CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000014272
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				220790350
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-01136
		FILM NUMBER:		13617609

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		345 PARK AVE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10154
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2125464000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		345 PARK AVE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10154

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BRISTOL MYERS CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19891012

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-13-061678.txt : 20130219

10-K
 1
 d450621d10k.htm
 10-K

10-K 

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549         
        FORM 10-K
             
   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012    
    Commission File Number 1-1136    
         
   BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)         

Delaware   
     
   22-0790350    
 
   (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)   
     
   (IRS Employer Identification No.)    
     345 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10154    
   (Address of principal executive offices)        Telephone: (212) 546-4000        Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     

Common Stock, $0.10 Par Value   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    

$2 Convertible Preferred Stock, $1 Par Value   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None    
         
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post
such files).    Yes       No        
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of
this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.             Indicate by check mark whether
the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting
company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.      

Large accelerated filer        
      
    Accelerated filer        
      
    Non-accelerated filer        
      
    Smaller reporting company         
    Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act).    Yes         No        
  The aggregate market value of the 1,676,515,493 shares of voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant,
computed by reference to the closing price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 30, 2012) was approximately $60,270,731,973.
Bristol-Myers Squibb has no non-voting common equity. At February 1, 2013, there were 1,637,354,662 shares of common stock outstanding.      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: Portions of the Proxy Statement for the registrant s Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held May 1, 2013 are incorporated by reference into Part III
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.           

PART I    

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS.          General    
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, the Company, we, our or us) was incorporated under
the laws of the State of Delaware in August 1933 under the name Bristol-Myers Company, as successor to a New York business started in 1887. In 1989, Bristol-Myers Company changed its name to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company as a result of a merger. We
are engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of biopharmaceutical products on a global basis.      Over the last few years, we executed our strategy to transform into a next generation biopharmaceutical company. This transformation encompassed all areas of our business and operations. As part of this
strategy, we have divested our non-pharmaceutical businesses, implemented our acquisition and licensing strategy known as the  string-of-pearls , and executed our productivity transformation initiative (PTI). Our divestitures included
Medical Imaging in January 2008, ConvaTec in August 2008, and Mead Johnson in December 2009. Our acquisition and licensing transactions included Kosan Biosciences, Inc. in June 2008, Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) in September 2009, ZymoGenetics, Inc.
(ZymoGenetics) in October 2010, Amira Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amira) in September 2011, Inhibitex, Inc. (Inhibitex) in February 2012, and Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amylin) in August 2012 as well as several license and other collaboration
arrangements. We continue to review our cost structure with the intent to maintain a modernized, efficient, and robust balance between building competitive advantages, securing innovative products and planning for the future.   
  We operate in one segment BioPharmaceuticals. For additional information about business segments, see  Item 8. Financial
Statements Note 2. Business Segment Information.       We compete with other worldwide research-based drug companies,
smaller research companies and generic drug manufacturers. Our products are sold worldwide, primarily to wholesalers, retail pharmacies, hospitals, government entities and the medical profession. We manufacture products in the United States (U.S.),
Puerto Rico and in 6 foreign countries.      The percentage of total net sales by significant region were as follows:   
   
     Products       Our pharmaceutical products include chemically-synthesized drugs, or small molecules, and an increasing portion of products produced from biological processes (typically involving recombinant DNA
technology), called  biologics.  Small molecule drugs are typically administered orally, e.g., in the form of a pill or tablet, although other drug delivery mechanisms are used as well. Biologics are typically administered to patients
through injections or by infusion. Most of our revenues come from products in the following therapeutic classes: cardiovascular; virology, including human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; oncology; neuroscience; immunoscience; and metabolics.
     In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product s commercial value is usually realized during the
period in which the product has market exclusivity. Our business is focused on innovative biopharmaceutical products, and we rely on patent rights and various forms of regulatory protection to maintain the market exclusivity of our products. In the
U.S., the European Union (EU) and some other countries, when these patent rights and other forms of exclusivity expire and generic versions of a medicine are approved and marketed, there are often substantial and rapid declines in the sales of the
original innovative product. For further discussion of patent rights and regulatory forms of exclusivity, see   Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity  below. For further discussion of the impact of generic competition on our
business, see    Generic Competition   below.      The following chart shows our key products together with
the year in which the earliest basic exclusivity loss (patent rights or data exclusivity) occurred or is currently estimated to occur in the U.S., the EU, Japan and Canada. We also sell our pharmaceutical products in other countries; however, data
is not provided on a country-by-country basis because individual country sales are not   
         2   

significant outside the U.S., the EU, Japan, China and Canada. In many instances, the basic exclusivity loss date listed below is the expiration date of the patent that claims the active
ingredient of the drug or the method of using the drug for the approved indication, if there is only one approved indication. In some instances, the basic exclusivity loss date listed in the chart is the expiration date of the data exclusivity
period. In situations where there is only data exclusivity without patent protection, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical trial data to obtain marketing approval prior to the expiration of data exclusivity.
     We estimate the market exclusivity period for each of our products for the purposes of business planning only. The length of
market exclusivity for any of our products is impossible to predict with certainty because of the complex interaction between patent and regulatory forms of exclusivity and the inherent uncertainties regarding patent litigation. There can be no
assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in the estimate or that the exclusivity will be limited to the estimate.   
  The following schedule presents net sales of our key products and estimated basic exclusivity loss in the U.S., EU, Japanese, Chinese and
Canadian markets:       
    Note: The currently estimated earliest year of basic exclusivity loss includes any
statutory extensions of exclusivity that have been granted. In some instances, we may be able to obtain an additional six months exclusivity for a product based on the pediatric extension. In certain other instances, there may be later-expiring
patents that cover particular forms or compositions of the drug, as well as methods of manufacturing or methods of using the drug. Such patents may sometimes result in a favorable market position for our products, but product exclusivity cannot be
predicted or assured. Under the U.S. healthcare law enacted in 2010, qualifying biologic products will receive 12 years of data exclusivity before a biosimilar can enter the market, as described in more detail in   Intellectual Property
and Product Exclusivity  below.       

*  
    Indicates brand names of products which are trademarks not owned or wholly owned by BMS. Specific trademark ownership information is included on
page 119.      

++  
    We do not currently market the product in the country or region indicated.      

--  
    There is uncertainty about China s exclusivity laws which has resulted in generic competition in the China market.

(a)  
    References to the EU throughout this Form 10-K include all 27 member states of the European Union during the year ended December 31, 2012.
Basic patent applications have not been filed in all 27 current member states for all of the listed products. In some instances, the date of basic exclusivity loss will be different in various EU member states. For those EU countries where the basic
patent was not obtained, there may be data protection available.      

(b)  
    Data exclusivity in the EU expired in July 2008. In most of the major markets within Europe, the product has national patents, expiring in 2013,
which specifically claim the bisulfate form of clopidogrel. However, generic and alternate salt forms of clopidogrel bisulfate are marketed and compete with  Plavix*  throughout the EU.      

(c)  
    Our rights to commercialize  Abilify*  (aripiprazole) in the U.S. terminate in 2015.      

(d)  
    Our rights to commercialize  Abilify*  in the EU terminate in 2014.      

(e)  
    Exclusivity period is based on regulatory data protection.      

(g)  
    Exclusivity period relates to the  Sustiva  brand and does not include exclusivity related to any combination therapy. The composition of
matter patent for efavirenz in the U.S. expires in 2013, but a method of use patent for the treatment of HIV infection expires in 2014. Pediatric exclusivity has been granted, which provides an additional six month period of exclusivity added to the
term of the patents listed in the Orange Book.      

(h)  
    Exclusivity period relates to the  Sustiva  brand and does not include exclusivity related to any combination therapy. Market exclusivity for
 Sustiva  is expected to expire in 2013 in countries in the EU. Data exclusivity for  Sustiva  expired in the EU in 2009.      

(i)  
    In February 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware invalidated the composition of matter patent covering  Baraclude , which
was scheduled to expire in 2015. We may face generic competition with this product beginning in 2013.      

(j)  
    Biologic product approved under a Biologics License Application (BLA). Data exclusivity in the U.S. expires in 2016. There is no patent that
specifically claims the composition of matter of cetuximab, the active ingredient in  Erbitux* . Our rights to commercialize cetuximab terminate in 2018.      

(k)  
    Exclusivity period is based on regulatory data protection.      

(m)  
    Exclusivity period is based on method of use patent. The composition of matter patent has expired.      

(n)  
    Exclusivity period is based on formulation patents.      
         3   

Below is a summary of the indication, intellectual property position, product partner, if any, and
third-party manufacturing arrangements, if any, for each of the above products in the U.S. and, where applicable, the EU, Japan and Canada.       

Plavix*    
      
     Plavix  *  (clopidogrel bisulfate) is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, which is approved for protection against fatal or non-fatal heart attack or
stroke in patients with a history of heart attack, stroke, peripheral arterial disease or acute coronary syndrome.    

Clopidogrel bisulfate was codeveloped and is jointly marketed with Sanofi. In October 2012, BMS and Sanofi announced a restructuring of their alliance
following the loss of exclusivity of  Plavix*  and  Avapro* / Avalide*  in many major markets. For more information about our alliance with Sanofi and the restructuring of it, see   Strategic Alliances and
Collaborations  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.     

The composition of matter patent in the U.S. expired on May 17, 2012.    

In the EU, regulatory data exclusivity protection expired in July 2008. In most of the major markets within Europe,  Plavix*  benefits from national
patents, expiring in 2013, which specifically claim the bisulfate form of clopidogrel. However, generic and alternative salt forms of clopidogrel bisulfate are marketed and compete throughout the EU.    

We obtain our bulk requirements for clopidogrel bisulfate from Sanofi. Prior to January 1, 2013, both the Company and Sanofi finished the product in our own
respective facilities. Effective January 1, 2013, the Company will no longer finish clopidogrel bisulfate in our facilities.    

Avapro* / Avalide*    
      
     Avapro* / Avalide*  (irbesartan/irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide) is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of
hypertension and diabetic nephropathy.    

Irbesartan was codeveloped and jointly marketed with Sanofi until the end of 2012. In October 2012, BMS and Sanofi announced a restructuring of their alliance
following the loss of exclusivity of  Plavix*  and  Avapro* / Avalide*  in many major markets. For more information about our alliance with Sanofi and the restructuring of it, see   Strategic Alliances and
Collaborations  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.     

The composition of matter patent in the U.S. expired on March 30, 2012 and expires in most countries in the EU in 2012 through 2013. Data exclusivity in the
EU expired in August 2007 for  Avapro*  and in October 2008 for  Avalide* . The composition of matter patent expired in Canada in March 2011.    

Irbesartan is manufactured by both the Company and Sanofi. We manufacture our bulk requirements for irbesartan and finish  Avapro* / Avalide*  in
our facilities. For  Avalide* , we purchase bulk requirements for hydrochlorothiazide from a third-party. With the alliance restructuring, BMS s manufacturing obligations will phase out with Sanofi assuming all the Company s
manufacturing and supply obligations of irbesartan products at the end of 2015.    

Eliquis    
      
     Eliquis  (apixaban) is an oral Factor Xa inhibitor targeted at stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation and the
prevention and treatment of venous thromboembolic (VTE) disorders. It is currently approved in the EU, Canada and Japan for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF) with one or more
risk factors and for use in VTE prevention in adult patients who have undergone elective hip or knee surgery. In December 2012, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved  Eliquis  to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in
patients with NVAF.         Apixaban was discovered
internally and is part of our alliance with Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer). For more information about our alliance with Pfizer, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.   
      The composition of matter patent covering apixaban in
the U.S. expires in February 2023(excluding potential patent term extensions) and in the EU it expires in 2022. We have applied for supplementary protection certificates. Some of these supplementary protection certificates have been granted and
expire in 2026. Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2021. The composition of matter patent expires in Canada in 2022.      
  Apixaban is manufactured by both the Company and a third-party. The product is then finished in our facilities.    

Abilify*    
      
     Abilify*  (aripiprazole) is an atypical antipsychotic agent for adult patients with schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and major depressive disorder.
 Abilify*  also has pediatric uses in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, among others.    
 
         4   

We have a global commercialization agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), except in Japan, China, Taiwan, North Korea, South Korea, the
Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia, Pakistan and Egypt. For more information about our arrangement with Otsuka, see   Strategic Alliances and Collaborations  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and
Collaborations.     

The basic U.S. composition of matter patent covering aripiprazole and the term of the current  Abilify*  agreement expire in April 2015 (including the
granted patent term extension and six month pediatric extension).    

A composition of matter patent is in force in Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France, Italy, the Netherlands, Romania, Sweden, Switzerland, Spain and
Denmark. The original expiration date of 2009 has been extended to 2014 by grant of a supplementary protection certificate in all of the above countries except Romania and Denmark. Data exclusivity and the rights to commercialize in the EU expire in
2014. Data exclusivity in Canada expires in 2017.    

We obtain our bulk requirements for aripiprazole from Otsuka. Both the Company and Otsuka finish the product in our own respective
facilities.    

Reyataz    
      
     Reyataz  (atazanavir sulfate) is a protease inhibitor for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).    

We developed atazanavir under a worldwide license from Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation (Novartis) for which a royalty is paid based on a percentage of net
sales. We are entitled to promote  Reyataz  for use in combination with  Norvir*  (ritonavir) under a non-exclusive license agreement with Abbott Laboratories, as amended, for which a royalty is paid based on a percentage of net sales. We
have a licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead) to develop and commercialize a fixed-dose combination containing  Reyataz  and one of Gilead s compounds in development.    

Market exclusivity for  Reyataz  is expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S., Canada and China and 2019 in the
major EU member countries and Japan. Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2014.         We manufacture our bulk requirements for atazanavir and finish the product in our facilities.    

Sustiva Franchise    
      
     Sustiva  (efavirenz) is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV. The  Sustiva Franchise  includes  Sustiva ,
an antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV, and as well as bulk efavirenz which is included in the combination therapy  Atripla*  (efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), a once-daily single
tablet three-drug regimen combining our  Sustiva  and Gilead s  Truvada*  (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate).  Atripla*  is the first complete Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy treatment product for HIV
available in the U.S. in a fixed-dose combination taken once daily. Fixed-dose combinations contain multiple medicines formulated together and help simplify HIV therapy for patients and providers. For more information about our arrangement with
Gilead, see   Strategic Alliances and Collaborations  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.     

Rights to market efavirenz in the U.S., Canada, the UK, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy and Spain are licensed from Merck   Co., Inc. for a royalty based
on a percentage of net sales.    

The composition of matter patent for efavirenz in the U.S. expires in 2013, but a method of use patent for the treatment of HIV infection expires in 2014,
with an additional six month period of pediatric exclusivity added to the term of these patents.    

Market exclusivity for  Sustiva  is expected to expire in 2013 in countries in the EU and Canada. Data exclusivity for  Sustiva  expired in the EU
in 2009. We do not, but another company does, market efavirenz in Japan. Certain  Atripla*  patents are the subject of patent litigation in the U.S. At this time, the U.S. patents covering efavirenz composition of matter and method of use have
not been challenged. The EU patent for efavirenz is the subject of litigation in the Netherlands, Germany and the UK. For more information about these litigation matters, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 21. Legal
Proceedings and Contingencies.     

We obtain our bulk requirements for efavirenz from third parties and produce finished goods in our facilities. We supply our third parties  bulk
efavirenz to Gilead, who is responsible for producing the finished  Atripla*  product.    

Baraclude    
      
     Baraclude  (entecavir) is a potent and selective inhibitor of hepatitis B virus that was approved by the FDA for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B
infection.  Baraclude  was discovered and developed internally. It has also been approved and is marketed in over 50 countries outside of the U.S., including China, Japan and the
EU.     
         5   

In February 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware invalidated the composition of matter patent
covering  Baraclude , which was scheduled to expire in 2015. We may face generic competition with this product beginning in 2013. For more information about this patent litigation matter, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 21.
Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.       
  The composition of matter patent expires in the EU between 2011 and 2016 and in Japan in 2016. The composition of matter patent expired in
Canada in 2011. There is uncertainty about China s exclusivity laws which has resulted in generic competition in the China market.      
  Entecavir is manufactured by both the company and a third-party. The product is then finished in our facilities.    

Erbitux  *    
      
     Erbitux*  (cetuximab) is an IgG1 monoclonal antibody designed to exclusively target and block the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR), which is
expressed on the surface of certain cancer cells in multiple tumor types as well as some normal cells.  Erbitux* , a biological product, is approved for the treatment in combination with irinotecan for the treatment of patients with
EGFR-expressing metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) who have failed an irinotecan-based regimen and as monotherapy for patients who are intolerant of irinotecan. The FDA also approved  Erbitux*  for use in the treatment of squamous cell
carcinoma of the head and neck. Specifically,  Erbitux*  was approved for use in combination with radiation therapy, for the treatment of locally or regionally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck and, as a single agent, for
the treatment of patients with recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck for whom prior platinum-based therapy has failed. The FDA also approved  Erbitux*  for first-line recurrent locoregional or metastatic head and
neck cancer in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy with 5-Fluorouracil.    

Erbitux*  is marketed in North America by us under an agreement with ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone), the predecessor company of ImClone LLC, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly). We share copromotion rights to  Erbitux*  with Merck KGaA in Japan under a codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement signed in October 2007 with ImClone, Merck KGaA and Merck
Serono Japan.  Erbitux*  received marketing approval in Japan in July 2008 for use in treating patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer. For a description of our alliance with ImClone, see   Strategic Alliances and
Collaborations  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.     

Data exclusivity in the U.S. expires in 2016. There is no patent that specifically claims the composition of matter
of cetuximab, the active molecule  Erbitux* .  Erbitux*  has been approved by the FDA and other health authorities for monotherapy, for which there is no use patent. The use of  Erbitux*  in combination with an anti-neoplastic agent
is approved by the FDA. Such combination use is claimed in a granted U.S. patent that expires in 2018 (including the granted patent term extension). The inventorship of this use patent was challenged by three researchers from Yeda Research and
Development Company Ltd. (Yeda). Pursuant to a settlement agreement executed and announced in December 2007 by ImClone, Sanofi and Yeda to end worldwide litigation related to the use patent, Sanofi and Yeda granted ImClone a worldwide license under
the use patent. Data exclusivity in Japan and Canada expire in 2016.         Yeda has the right to license the use patent to others. Yeda s license of the patent to third parties could result in product competition for  Erbitux*  that might not otherwise occur. We are
unable to assess whether and to what extent any such competitive impact will occur or to quantify any such impact. However, Yeda has granted Amgen Inc. (Amgen) a license under the use patent. Amgen received FDA approval to market an EGFR-product
that competes with  Erbitux* .    

We obtain our finished goods requirements for cetuximab for use in North America from Lilly. Lilly manufactures bulk requirements for cetuximab in its own
facilities and filling and finishing is performed by a third-party for which BMS has oversight responsibility. For a description of our supply agreement with Lilly, see   Manufacturing and Quality Assurance 
below.    

Sprycel    
      
     Sprycel  (dasatinib) is a multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved for treatment of adults with all phases of chronic myeloid leukemia with
resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including  Gleevec*  (imatinib mesylate), and for the treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy. In 2010,
the FDA approved  Sprycel  for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in chronic phase.     
         6   

Sprycel  was internally discovered and is part of our strategic alliance with Otsuka. For more information
about our alliance with Otsuka, see   Strategic Alliances and Collaborations  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.   
      A patent term extension has been granted in the U.S.
extending the term on the basic composition of matter patent covering dasatinib until June 2020. Dasatinib is the subject of patent litigation in the U.S. For more information about this litigation matter, see  Item 8. Financial
Statements Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.  In the U.S., orphan drug exclusivity expires in 2013, which protects the product from generic applications for the currently approved orphan indications only.  
      In the majority of the EU countries, we have a
composition of matter patent covering dasatanib that expires in April 2020 (excluding potential term extensions). The composition of matter patent expires in 2021 in Japan and in 2020 in Canada and China.  
      We manufacture our bulk requirements for dasatinib and
finish the product in our facilities.    

Yervoy    
      
     Yervoy  (ipilimumab), a biological product, is a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with
unresectable (inoperable) or metastatic melanoma. Ipilimumab was approved in the U.S. in March 2011 and in the EU in July 2011. It is currently also being studied for other indications including lung cancer as well as adjuvant melanoma and
hormone-refractory prostate cancer. For more information, about research and development of  Yervoy , see   Research and Development  below.  
       Yervoy  was discovered by Medarex and codeveloped
by the Company and Medarex, which is now our subsidiary.         We own a patent covering ipilimumab as composition of matter that currently expires in 2022 in the U.S. and 2020 in the EU (excluding potential patent term extensions) and 2020 in Canada. Data exclusivity
expires in 2023 in the U.S. and 2021 in the EU.      
  We obtain bulk ipilimumab from a third-party manufacturer and finish the product at a third party facility.    

Orencia    
      
     Orencia  (abatacept), a biological product, is a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity targeted initially at adult patients with moderate
to severe rheumatoid arthritis, who have had an inadequate response to certain currently available treatments. Abatacept is available in both an intravenous formulation and beginning in 2011, a subcutaneous formulation in the U.S.  Orencia  was
discovered and developed internally.    

We have a series of patents covering abatacept and its method of use. In the U.S., a patent term extension has been
granted for one of the composition of matter patents, extending the term of the U.S. patent to 2019. In the majority of the EU countries, we have a patent covering abatacept that expires in 2012. We have applied for supplementary protection
certificates and also pediatric extension of the supplementary protection certificates for protection until 2017. Some of these protection certificates have been granted.  
      Data exclusivity expires in 2014 in Canada, 2017 in the
U.S. and EU and 2018 in Japan.         We obtain bulk
abatacept from a third-party manufacturer and also manufacture bulk at own facility. We finish the product in our facilities for both formulations.    

Nulojix    
      
     Nulojix  (belatacept), a biological product, is a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity for the
prevention of kidney transplant rejection. It was approved and launched in the U.S. in June 2011, and approved in the EU in June 2011 and launched in July 2011. Belatacept was internally discovered and developed.  
      We own a patent covering belatacept as composition of
matter that expires in April 2023 in the U.S. and May 2021 in the EU.         Data exclusivity expires in the U.S. in June 2023 and in the EU in June 2021.      
  We manufacture our bulk requirements for belatacept and finish the products in our facilities.    

Onglyza / Kombiglyze    
      
     Onglyza  (saxagliptin), a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, is an oral compound indicated for the treatment of
type 2 diabetes as an adjunct to diet and exercise.          Kombiglyze  (saxagliptin and metformin hydrochloride extended-release) is approved in the U.S. as a combination product indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in
adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus when treatment with both saxagliptin and metformin is appropriate.  Komboglyze  (saxagliptin and metformin immediate-release) is approved in the EU as a combination product indicated as an adjunct to diet
and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled on their maximally tolerated dose of metformin alone or those already being treated with the combination of saxagliptin and metformin as
separate tablets. In this document unless specifically noted, we refer to both  Kombiglyze  and  Komboglyze  as  Kombiglyze .     
         7   

Onglyza  was internally discovered by the
Company and  Kombiglyze  was codeveloped by the Company and AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca). We have a worldwide (except Japan) codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement with AstraZeneca for saxagliptin. For more information about our
arrangement with AstraZeneca and with Otsuka for Japan, see   Strategic Alliances and Collaborations  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.   
      We own a patent covering saxagliptin as composition of
matter that expires in March 2021 in the U.S., the EU and Canada. Market exclusivity in China expires in 2016.    

We manufacture our bulk requirements for saxagliptin in our facilities. We obtain the bulk metformin for  Kombiglyze  from a third party. Both
the Company and AstraZeneca finish  Onglyza  in their own facilities. The Company finishes  Kombiglyze  in its own facility.    

Byetta*    
      
     Byetta* (exenatide) is a twice daily glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.  Byetta*  was acquired
from our Amylin acquisition in August 2012.  Byetta*  was internally discovered by Amylin, now a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. We have a worldwide development and commercialization agreement with AstraZeneca for  Byetta* . We
also have an agreement with Lilly regarding the termination of their collaboration for the global development and commercialization of  Byetta*  and  Bydureon* . The Company and Lilly are in the process of transferring the rights to the
Company and AstraZeneca. For more information about our arrangement with AstraZeneca, see   Strategic Alliances and Collaborations  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and
Collaborations.     

The composition of matter patent covering exenatide has expired. The method of use patent expires in 2016 in the U.S.
Data exclusivity expires in 2016 in Europe, 2018 in Japan and 2019 in Canada.         We obtain the bulk requirements for exenatide from third parties. Manufacturing and finishing also takes place in third party facilities.    

Bydureon*    
      
     Bydureon*  (exenatide extended-release for injectable suspension) is a once-weekly GLP-1 receptor agonist for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
 Bydureon*  was acquired from our Amylin acquisition in August 2012.  Bydureon*  was internally discovered by Amylin, now a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. We have a worldwide development and commercialization agreement with
AstraZeneca for  Bydureon* . For more information about our arrangement with AstraZeneca, see   Strategic Alliances and Collaborations  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and
Collaborations.     

The formulation patents expire in 2025 in the U.S. Data exclusivity expires in 2021 in Europe and 2020 in
Japan.         The bulk requirements for exenatide
are obtained from third parties and the microspheres manufacturing process required for the extended release formulation is performed by the Company. We finish the product in our facilities.    

Forxiga    
      
     Forxiga  (dapagliflozin) is an oral sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) for the treatment of
diabetes.         It was approved in the EU in
November 2012 as an adjunct to diet and exercise in combination with other glucose-lowering medicinal products, including insulin, or as a monotherapy in metformin-intolerant patients and is currently in the registrational review process in the U.S.
For further discussion, See  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Product and Pipeline Developments.   Forxiga  was internally discovered and we have a worldwide
codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement with AstraZeneca for dapagliflozin.    

We own a patent covering dapagliflozin as composition of matter that expires in October 2020 in the U.S. and May 2023
in the EU.         We manufacture the bulk
requirements for dapagliflozin and finish the product in our own facilities.    
 
         8   

Research and Development       We invest heavily in research and development (R D) because we believe it is critical to our long-term competitiveness. We have major R D facilities in Princeton, Hopewell and New Brunswick, New
Jersey, and Wallingford, Connecticut. Pharmaceutical research and development is also carried out at various other facilities throughout the world, including in Belgium, the UK, India and other sites in the U.S. We supplement our internal drug
discovery and development programs with alliances and collaborative agreements. These agreements bring new products into the pipeline and help us remain on the cutting edge of technology in the search for novel medicines. In drug development, we
engage the services of physicians, hospitals, medical schools and other research organizations worldwide to conduct clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of new products. Management continues to emphasize leadership, innovation,
productivity and quality as strategies for success in our research and development activities.      We concentrate our
biopharmaceutical research and development efforts in the following disease areas with significant unmet medical need: affective (psychiatric) disorders, Alzheimer s/dementia, cardiovascular, diabetes, hepatitis, HIV/Acquired Immunodeficiency
Syndrome (AIDS), oncology, immunologic disorders and fibrotic disease. We also continue to analyze and may selectively pursue promising leads in other areas. In addition to discovering and developing new molecular entities, we look for ways to
expand the value of existing products through new indications and formulations that can provide additional benefits to patients.      In order for a new drug to reach the market, industry practice and government regulations in the U.S., the EU and most foreign countries provide for the determination of a drug s effectiveness and
safety through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. The clinical development of a potential new drug includes Phase I, Phase II and Phase III clinical trials that have been designed specifically to support a new drug application for
a particular indication, assuming the trials are successful.      Phase I clinical trials involve a small number of healthy
patients or patients suffering from the indicated disease to test for safety and proper dosing. Phase II clinical trials involve a larger patient population to investigate side effects, efficacy, and optimal dosage of the drug candidate. Phase III
clinical trials are conducted to confirm Phase II results in a significantly larger patient population over a longer term and to provide reliable and conclusive data regarding the safety and efficacy of a drug candidate.   
  The R D process typically takes thirteen years or longer, with nearly three years often spent in Phase III, or late-stage,
development. We consider our R D programs in Phase III, or late-stage development, to be our significant R D programs. These programs include both investigational compounds in Phase III development for initial indications and marketed
products that are in Phase III development for additional indications or formulations.      Drug development is time consuming,
expensive and risky. On average, only about one in 10,000 chemical compounds discovered by pharmaceutical industry researchers proves to be both medically effective and safe enough to become an approved medicine. Drug candidates can fail at any
stage of the process, and even late-stage product candidates sometimes fail to receive regulatory approval. According to the KMR Group, based on industry success rates from 2007-2011, approximately 95% of the compounds that enter Phase I development
fail to achieve regulatory approval. The failure rate for compounds that enter Phase II development is approximately 88% and for compounds that enter Phase III development, it is approximately 46%.   
  Total research and development expenses include the costs of discovery research, preclinical development, early- and late-clinical
development and drug formulation, as well as post-commercialization and medical support of marketed products, proportionate allocations of enterprise-wide costs, and other appropriate costs. Research and development spending was $3.9 billion in
2012, $3.8 billion in 2011 and $3.6 billion in 2010 and includes payments under third-party collaborations and contracts. At the end of 2012, we employed approximately 8,000 people in R D activities, including a substantial number of physicians,
scientists holding graduate or postgraduate degrees and higher-skilled technical personnel.      We manage our R D programs on
a portfolio basis, investing resources in each stage of research and development from early discovery through late-stage development. We continually evaluate our portfolio of R D assets to ensure that there is an appropriate balance of
early-stage and late-stage programs to support the future growth of the Company. Spending on our late-stage development programs represents approximately 30-40% of our annual R D expenses. No individual investigational compound or marketed
product represented 10% or more of our R D expenses in any of the last three years.   
         9   

Listed below are several late-stage investigational compounds that we have in Phase III
clinical trials for at least one potential indication. Whether or not any of these or our other investigational compounds ultimately becomes one of our marketed products depends on the results of clinical studies, the competitive landscape of the
potential product s market and the manufacturing processes necessary to produce the potential product on a commercial scale, among other factors. However, as noted above, there can be no assurance that we will seek regulatory approval of any of
these compounds or that, if such approval is sought, it will be obtained. There is also no assurance that a compound that is approved will be commercially successful. At this stage of development, we cannot determine all intellectual property issues
or all the patent protection that may, or may not, be available for these investigational compounds. The patent coverage highlighted below includes only patent term extensions that have been granted.   

Asunaprevir   
      
    Asunaprevir is an oral small molecule NS3 protease inhibitor in Phase III development (which commenced in 2012) for the treatment of hepatitis C virus infection.
We own a patent covering asunaprevir as a composition of matter that expires in 2027 in the U.S.    

Daclatasvir   
      
    Daclatasvir is an oral small molecule NS5A replication complex inhibitor in Phase III development (which commenced in 2011) for the treatment of hepatitis C
virus infection. We own a patent covering daclatasvir as a composition of matter that expires in 2027 in the U.S.    

Peginterferon lambda   
      
    Peginterferon lambda is a novel type 3 interferon in Phase III development (which commenced in 2012) for hepatitis C virus infection. We own a patent covering
peginterferon lambda as a composition of matter that expires in 2024 in the U.S.    

Elotuzumab   
      
    Elotuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody being investigated as an anticancer treatment, which was discovered by PDL BioPharma and became part of the Facet
Biotech Corporation (Facet) spin-off. Facet was subsequently acquired by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) and became part of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie) following a spin-off from Abbott. Elotuzumab is part of our alliance with AbbVie. It is in Phase III trials
(which commenced in 2011) in multiple myeloma. AbbVie owns a patent covering elotuzumab as a composition of matter that expires in 2026 in the U.S.    

Nivolumab   
      
    Nivolumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds to the programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1) on T and NKT cells. It is being investigated as an anticancer
treatment. It is in Phase III trials (which commenced in 2012) in non small cell lung cancer, renal cell cancer and melanoma. We own a patent covering nivolumab as a composition of matter that expires in 2027 in the U.S.    

Metreleptin   
      
    Metreleptin was acquired as part of the Amylin acquisition and is being co-developed with AstraZeneca. Metreleptin is a protein in development for the treatment
of lipodystrophy and is currently in the registrational process. We own a patent covering metreleptin as a composition of matter that expires in 2016 in the U.S. Data exclusivity in the U.S. will expire 12 years after regulatory
approval.    
    During 2012, we provided notice of the termination of our global codevelopment and cocommercialization
arrangement for necitumumab (IMC-11F8), a fully human monoclonal antibody being investigated as an anticancer treatment, which was discovered by ImClone and is part of the alliance between the Company and Lilly, with all rights returning to Lilly.
The termination is effective May 2014, though we and Lilly may terminate earlier.      During 2012, we terminated our development
program for brivanib, which was in Phase III trials as an anti-cancer treatment with potential use in hepatocellular carcinoma and colorectal cancer.   
         10   

The following table lists potential additional indications and/or formulations of key
marketed products that are in Phase III development or currently under regulatory review:       

Key marketed product    
      
     Potential indication and/or formulation     

Eliquis    
      
  Additional indication for VTE treatment   

Reyataz    
      
  Pediatric extension   

Baraclude    
      
  Pediatric extension   

Erbitux*    
      
  Additional indication in esophageal cancer   

Yervoy    
      
    Additional indications in adjuvant melanoma, prostate cancer, non-small cell lung cancer and small cell lung cancer  
      Additional indication in first-line metastatic melanoma in the
EU    

Orencia    
      
    Additional indication in lupus nephritis      
  Additional formulation (subcutaneous) in Japan    

Onglyza    
      
  Additional use in cardiovascular risk reduction and pediatric extension   

Bydureon*    
      
  Dual chamber pen and weekly suspension   

Forxiga    
      
  Fixed dose combination with metformin   
    The following key developments are currently expected to occur during 2013 with respect to our
significant pipeline programs. The outcome and timing of these expected developments are dependent upon a number of factors including, among other things, the availability of data, the outcome of certain clinical trials, acceptance of presentations
at certain medical meetings and/or actions by health authorities. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update this information, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.   

Eliquis    
      
    Data available from Phase III study in VTE treatment    

Daclatasvir    
      
  Data available from Phase III hepatitis C virus infection combination studies   

Asunaprevir    
      
  Data available from Phase III hepatitis C virus infection combination studies   

Sprycel    
      
    Data available from Phase III study in prostate cancer      
  Four year data available in first line CML    

Yervoy    
      
  Data available from Phase III study in prostate cancer   

Orencia    
      
  Phase III start in psoriatic arthritis   

Nulojix    
      
  Five year data available from Phase III studies in the prevention of kidney transplant rejection   

Onglyza    
      
  Data available from cardiovascular risk reduction study   

Bydureon*    
      
  Planned submission of dual chamber pen in the U.S. and Europe   

Forxiga    
      
    Planned resubmission in the U.S. for the treatment of type 2 diabetes  
      Data available from Phase III blood pressure studies  
      Two year data available from Phase III studies in diabetic patients with history of
cardiovascular disease    

Metreleptin    
      
  Planned U.S. submission for the treatment of lipodystrophy   
 
         11   

Strategic Alliances and Collaborations    
  We enter into strategic alliances and collaborations with third parties that transfer rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell
pharmaceutical products that are owned by other parties. These alliances and collaborations include licensing arrangements, codevelopment and comarketing agreements, copromotion arrangements and joint ventures. Such alliances and arrangements reduce
the risk of incurring all research and development expenses for compounds that do not lead to revenue-generating products. However, profitability on alliance products are generally lower because profits from alliance products are shared with our
alliance partners. We actively pursue such arrangements and view alliances as an important complement to our own discovery and development activities.      Each of our strategic alliances and arrangements with third parties who own the rights to manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products contain customary early termination provisions typically
found in agreements of this kind and are generally based on the other party s material breach or bankruptcy (voluntary or involuntary) and product safety concerns. The amount of notice required for early termination generally ranges from
immediately upon notice to 180 days after receipt of notice. Termination immediately upon notice is generally available where the other party files a voluntary bankruptcy petition or if a material safety issue arises with a product such that the
medical risk/benefit is incompatible with the welfare of patients to continue to develop or commercialize this product. Termination upon 30 to 90 days notice is generally available where an involuntary bankruptcy petition has been filed (and has not
been dismissed) or a material breach by the other party has occurred (and not been cured). A number of alliance agreements also permit the collaborator or us to terminate without cause, typically exercisable with substantial advance written notice
and often exercisable only after a specified period of time has elapsed after the collaboration agreement is signed. Our strategic alliances and arrangements typically do not otherwise contain provisions that provide the other party the right to
terminate the alliance on short notice.      In general, we do not retain any rights to a product brought to an alliance by
another party or to the other party s intellectual property after an alliance terminates. The loss of rights to one or more products that are marketed and sold by us pursuant to a strategic alliance arrangement could be material to our results
of operations and cash flows, and, in the case of  Plavix*  or  Abilify* , could be material to our financial condition and liquidity. As is customary in the pharmaceutical industry, the terms of our strategic alliances and arrangements
generally are co-extensive with the exclusivity period and may vary on a country-by-country basis.      Our most significant
current alliances and arrangements for both currently marketed products and investigational compounds are described below.        Current
Marketed Products In-Licensed         Sanofi  In September 2012, BMS and Sanofi restructured the terms of the
codevelopment and cocommercialization agreements discussed below. Effective as of January 1, 2013, subject in certain countries to the receipt of regulatory approvals, Sanofi will assume the worldwide operations of the alliance with the
exception of  Plavix*  for the U.S. and Puerto Rico. The alliance for  Plavix*  in these two markets will continue unchanged through December 2019 under the same terms as in the original alliance arrangements. BMS will return to Sanofi its
rights and receive quarterly royalties from January 1, 2013 until December 31, 2018 and a terminal payment from Sanofi of $200 million at the end of 2018. All ongoing disputes between the companies have been resolved, including a one-time
payment of $80 million by BMS to Sanofi related to the  Avalide*  supply disruption in the U.S. in 2011 (accrued for in 2011).      Pursuant to the Master Restructuring Agreement, the Company will, through various mechanisms depending on the territory, return to Sanofi its rights for clopidogrel and irbesartan in all markets with the
exception of clopidogrel in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, where the Company will continue to act as the operating partner and own a 50.1% majority controlling interest. All currently existing local arrangements in Territory A and Territory B (with the
exception of clopidogrel in the U.S. and Puerto Rico), will be terminated by mutual agreement. No products will continue to be sold through such local country entities in these territories. In addition, Sanofi will assume all marketing
authorizations for the products, to the extent currently held by the Company or any of its affiliates. As a result, Sanofi will assume control of all activities relating to the distribution, commercialization and medical affairs of clopidogrel and
irbesartan in these regions.      Pursuant to the Master Restructuring Agreement and related alliance agreements, Sanofi will
assume the Company s manufacturing and supply obligations of irbesartan products at the end of 2015. The Company does not manufacture bulk clopidogrel and will no longer finish clopidogrel products in its facilities. The Company will retain
rights to the intellectual property developed by the alliance necessary to fulfill its continuing obligations under the alliance arrangements.      Under the Master Restructuring Agreement and related alliance agreements, the alliance will remain in effect through December 2018 until Sanofi s payment of the terminal fee, with the exception of
the U.S. and Puerto Rico, where the alliance will remain in effect through December 2019.      We had agreements with Sanofi for
the codevelopment and cocommercialization of  Avapro* / Avalide*  and  Plavix* .  Avapro* / Avalide*  is copromoted in certain countries outside the U.S. under the tradename  Aprovel* / Coaprovel*  and comarketed
in certain countries outside the U.S. by us under the tradename  Karvea* / Karvezide* .  Plavix*  was copromoted in certain countries outside the U.S. under the tradename  Plavix*  and comarketed in certain countries outside the
U.S. by us under the tradename  Iscover* .   
         12   

Prior to 2013, the worldwide alliance operated under the framework of two geographic
territories, one covering certain European and Asian countries, referred to as Territory A, and one covering the U.S., Puerto Rico, Canada, Australia and certain Latin American countries, referred to as Territory B. Territory B was managed by two
separate sets of agreements: one for  Plavix*  in the U.S. and Puerto Rico and both products in Australia, Mexico, Brazil, Colombia and Argentina and a separate set of agreements for  Avapro* / Avalide*  in the U.S. and Puerto Rico
only. Within each territory, a territory partnership existed to supply finished product to each country within the territory and to manage or contract for certain central expenses such as marketing, research and development and royalties. Countries
within Territories A and B were structured so that our local affiliate and Sanofi s local affiliate either comarket separate brands (i.e., each affiliate operated independently and competed with the other by selling the same product under
different trademarks), or copromoted a single brand (i.e., the same product under the same trademark).      Within Territory A,
the comarketing countries include Germany, Spain, Italy (irbesartan only), Greece and China (clopidogrel bisulfate only). We sold  Iscover*  and  Karvea* / Karvezide*  and Sanofi sold  Plavix*  and
 Aprovel* / Coaprovel*  in these countries, except China, where we retained the right to, but did not currently comarket  Iscover* . The Company and Sanofi copromoted  Plavix*  and  Aprovel* / Coaprovel*  in France, the
UK, Belgium, Netherlands, Switzerland and Portugal. In addition, the Company and Sanofi copromoted  Plavix*  in Austria, Italy, Ireland, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Taiwan, South Korea and Hong Kong, and  Aprovel* / Coaprovel* 
in certain French export countries. In 2010 and prior, the Company and Sanofi also copromoted  Plavix*  in Singapore. Sanofi acted as the operating partner for Territory A and owned a 50.1% financial controlling interest in this territory. Our
ownership interest in this territory was 49.9%. We accounted for the investment in partnership entities in Territory A under the equity method and recognized our share of the results in equity in net income of affiliates. Our share of net income
from these partnership entities before taxes was $201 million in 2012, $298 million in 2011 and $325 million in 2010.      Within
Territory B, the Company and Sanofi copromoted  Plavix*  and  Avapro* / Avalide*  in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. The other Territory B countries, Australia, Mexico, Brazil, Colombia (clopidogrel bisulfate only) and Argentina
were comarketing countries. We act as the operating partner for Territory B and owned a 50.1% majority controlling interest in this territory. As such, we consolidated all partnership results in Territory B and recognized Sanofi s share of the
results as net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of taxes, which was $531 million in 2012, $1,536 million in 2011 and $1,394 million in 2010.      We recognized net sales in Territory B and Territory A comarketing countries of $3.1 billion in 2012, $8.0 billion in 2011 and $7.8 billion in 2010.   
  The territory partnerships were governed by a series of committees with enumerated functions, powers and responsibilities. Each territory
had two senior committees which have final decision-making authority with respect to that territory as to the enumerated functions, powers and responsibilities within their jurisdictions.   
  The alliance arrangements may be terminated by Sanofi or us, either in whole or in any affected country or Territory, depending on the
circumstances, in the event of (i) voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy or insolvency, which in the case of involuntary bankruptcy continues for 60 days or an order or decree approving same continues unstayed and in effect for 30 days;
(ii) a material breach of an obligation under a major alliance agreement that remains uncured for 30 days following notice of the breach except where commencement and diligent prosecution of cure has occurred within 30 days after notice;
(iii) deadlocks of one of the senior committees which render the continued commercialization of the product impossible in a given country or Territory; (iv) an increase in the combined cost of goods and royalty which exceeds a specified
percentage of the net selling price of the product; or (v) a good faith determination by the terminating party that commercialization of a product should be terminated for reasons of patient safety.   
  In the case of each of these termination rights, the agreements included provisions for the termination of the relevant alliance with
respect to the applicable product in the applicable country or territory or, in the case of a termination due to bankruptcy or insolvency or material breach, both products in the applicable territory. Each of these termination procedures was
slightly different; however, in all events, we could lose all rights to either or both products, as applicable, in the relevant country or territory even in the case of a bankruptcy or insolvency or material breach where we are not the defaulting
party.      For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Sanofi, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3.
Alliances and Collaborations.        Otsuka  We maintain a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka to
codevelop and copromote  Abilify*  (the  Abilify*  Agreement), excluding certain Asia Pacific countries. In April 2009, the Company and Otsuka agreed to extend the U.S. portion of the commercialization and manufacturing agreement until the
expected loss of product exclusivity in April 2015. The contractual share of  Abilify*  net sales recognized by the Company pursuant to the extension was 58% in 2010, 53.5% in 2011 and 51.5% in 2012.   
  In the UK, Germany, France and Spain, the Company receives 65% of third-party net sales. In these countries and the U.S., third-party
customers are invoiced by the Company on behalf of Otsuka and alliance revenue is recognized when  Abilify*  is shipped and all risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to third party customers. We also have an exclusive right to sell
 Abilify*  in other countries in Europe, the Americas and a number of countries in Asia. In these countries we recognize 100% of the net sales.   
         13   

Under the terms of the  Abilify*  Agreement, as amended, we purchase the product from
Otsuka and perform finish manufacturing for sale by us or Otsuka to third-party customers. Under the terms of the extension agreement, we paid Otsuka $400 million, which is amortized as a reduction of net sales through the extension period. The
unamortized balance is included in other assets. Otsuka receives a royalty based on 1.5% of total U.S. net sales, which is included in cost of products sold. Otsuka is responsible for 30% of the U.S. expenses related to the commercialization of
 Abilify*  from 2010 through 2012. BMS also receives additional reimbursement from Otsuka for sales force costs incurred by BMS in excess of requirements specified in the agreement. Reimbursements are netted principally in marketing, selling
and administrative and advertising and product promotion expenses.      The  Abilify*  Agreement expires in April 2015 in the
U.S. and in June 2014 in all EU countries. In each other country where we have the exclusive right to sell  Abilify* , the agreement expires on the later of April 20, 2015 or loss of exclusivity in any such country.   
  Beginning January 1, 2013, BMS will receive the following percentages of U.S. annual net sales. Net sales will be initially
recognized at 35% and adjusted to reflect the actual level of net sales in 2013:       
    The U.S. commercialization agreement was amended in October 2012, requiring Otsuka to assume full
responsibility for providing and funding all sales force efforts effective January 2013. In consideration BMS paid Otsuka $27 million in January 2013, and will be responsible for funding certain operating expenses up to $82 million in 2013, $56
million in 2014 and $8 million in 2015. In the EU, Otsuka will reimburse BMS for its sales force effort provided through March 31, 2013. Beginning April 1, 2013 Otsuka will assume responsibility for providing and funding sales force
effort.      The U.S. portion of the  Abilify*  Agreement and the Oncology Agreement described below include a
change-of-control provision if we are acquired. If the acquiring company does not have a competing product to  Abilify* , then the new company will assume the  Abilify*  Agreement (as amended) and the Oncology Agreement as it currently
exists. If the acquiring company has a product that competes with  Abilify* , Otsuka can elect to request the acquiring company to choose whether to divest  Abilify*  or the competing product. In the scenario where  Abilify*  is
divested, Otsuka would be obligated to acquire our rights under the  Abilify*  Agreement (as amended) at a price according to a predetermined schedule. The agreements also provide that in the event of a generic competitor to  Abilify* , we
have the option of terminating the  Abilify*  April 2009 amendment (with the agreement as previously amended remaining in force). If we were to exercise such option then either (i) we would receive a payment from Otsuka according to a
pre-determined schedule and the Oncology Agreement would terminate at the same time or (ii) the Oncology Agreement would continue for a truncated period according to a pre-determined schedule.   
  Early termination of the  Abilify*  Agreement is immediate upon notice in the case of (i) voluntary bankruptcy, (ii) where
minimum payments are not made to Otsuka, or (iii) first commercial sale has not occurred within three months after receipt of all necessary approvals, 30 days where a material breach has occurred (and not been cured or commencement of cure has
not occurred within 90 days after notice of such material breach) and 90 days in the case where an involuntary bankruptcy petition has been filed (and has not been dismissed). In addition, termination is available to Otsuka upon 30 days notice in
the event that we were to challenge Otsuka s patent rights or, on a market-by-market basis, in the event that we were to market a product in direct competition with  Abilify* . Upon termination or expiration of the  Abilify* 
Agreement, we do not retain any rights to  Abilify* .      We recognized net sales for  Abilify*  of $2.8 billion in
2012 and $2.8 billion in 2011 and $2.6 billion in 2010. In addition to the $400 million extension payment in 2009, total upfront, milestone and other licensing payments made to Otsuka under the  Abilify*  Agreement through 2012 were $217
million.      For a discussion of our Oncology Agreement with Otsuka, see    Current Marketed Products Internally
Discovered   below. For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Otsuka, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.    
   Lilly  We have an EGFR commercialization agreement with Lilly through Lilly s subsidiary ImClone for the codevelopment and
copromotion of  Erbitux*  and necitumumab (IMC-11F8) in the U.S., Canada and Japan. For more information on the agreement with respect to necitumumab, see    Investigational Compounds Under Development In-Licensed  
below. Under the EGFR agreement, with respect to  Erbitux*  sales in North America, Lilly receives a distribution fee based on a flat rate of 39% of net sales in North America, plus reimbursement of certain royalties paid by Lilly, and the
Company and Lilly share one half of the profits and losses evenly in Japan with Merck KgaA receiving the other half of the profits and losses in Japan. The parties share royalties payable to third parties pursuant to a formula set forth in the
commercialization agreement. We purchase all of our North American commercial requirements for bulk  Erbitux*  from Lilly. The agreement expires as to  Erbitux*  in North America in September 2018.   
         14   

Early termination is available based on material breach and is effective 60 days after
notice of the material breach (and such material breach has not been cured or commencement of cure has not occurred), or upon six months notice from us if there exists a significant concern regarding a regulatory or patient safety issue that would
seriously impact the long-term viability of the product. Upon termination or expiration of the alliance, we do not retain any rights to  Erbitux* .      We share codevelopment and copromotion rights to  Erbitux*  with Merck KGaA in Japan under an agreement signed in October 2007, and expiring in 2032, with Lilly, Merck KGaA and Merck Japan. Lilly has
the ability to terminate the agreement after 2018 if it determines that it is commercially unreasonable for it to continue.  Erbitux*  received marketing approval in Japan in July 2008 for the use of  Erbitux*  in treating patients with
advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer.      We recognized net sales for  Erbitux*  of $702 million in 2012, $691 million in 2011 and $662
million in 2010.      For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Lilly, see  Item 8. Financial
Statements Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.        Gilead  We have a joint venture with Gilead to develop and
commercialize  Atripla*  in the U.S., Canada and Europe. The Company and Gilead share responsibility for commercializing  Atripla*  in the U.S., Canada, throughout the EU and certain other European countries, and both provide funding and
field-based sales representatives in support of promotional efforts for  Atripla* . Gilead recognizes 100% of  Atripla*  revenues in the U.S., Canada and most countries in Europe. Our revenue for the efavirenz component is determined by
applying a percentage to  Atripla*  revenue to approximate revenue for the  Sustiva  brand. We recognized efavirenz revenues of $1.3 billion in 2012, $1.2 billion in 2011 and $1.1 billion in 2010 related to  Atripla*  net sales.
     The joint venture between the Company and Gilead will continue until terminated by mutual agreement of the parties or
otherwise as described below. In the event of a material breach by one party, the non-breaching party may terminate the joint venture only if both parties agree that it is both desirable and practicable to withdraw the combination product from the
markets where it is commercialized. At such time as one or more generic versions of a party s component product(s) appear on the market in the U.S., the other party will have the right to terminate the joint venture and thereby acquire all of
the rights to the combination product, both in the U.S. and Canada; however, for three years the terminated party will continue to receive a percentage of the net sales based on the contribution of bulk component(s) to  Atripla* , and otherwise
retains all rights to its own product(s).      In 2011, we entered into a licensing agreement with Gilead to develop and
commercialize a fixed-dose combination containing  Reyataz  and Gilead s cobicistat, a pharmacoenhancing or  boosting  agent currently in Phase III clinical trials that increases blood levels of certain HIV medicines to
potentially allow for one pill once daily dosing. Cobicstat is currently in the registrational process with the FDA.      For
further discussion of our strategic alliance with Gilead, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.         Current Marketed Products Internally Discovered     
   AstraZeneca  In January 2007, we entered into a worldwide (except for Japan) codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement with
AstraZeneca for  Onglyza  (the Saxagliptin Agreement) and dapagliflozin (the SGLT2 Agreement).  Kombiglyze  was codeveloped with AstraZeneca under the Saxagliptin Agreement. The exclusive rights to develop and sell  Onglyza  in Japan
were licensed to Otsuka in December 2006 and in June 2012 were assigned by Otsuka to Kyowa Hakko Kirin (KHK), which is described below under    Investigational Compounds Under Development Internally Discovered .    
  We manufacture  Onglyza  and  Kombiglyze  and, with certain limited exceptions, recognize net sales in most key markets. We
received $300 million in upfront, milestone and other licensing payments from AstraZeneca for meeting certain development and regulatory milestones on  Onglyza  and  Kombiglyze , and could receive up to an additional $300 million if all
sales-based milestones are met. The majority of costs under the initial development plans were paid by AstraZeneca and additional development costs are generally shared equally. We expense  Onglyza  and  Kombiglyze  development costs, net
of AstraZeneca s share, in research and development. The two companies jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy and share commercialization expenses and profits and losses equally on a global basis, excluding Japan.   
  Under the SGLT2 Agreement, we have received $250 million of upfront, milestone and other licensing payments from AstraZeneca, including
$80 million received in January 2013, and could receive up to $150 million more if all development and regulatory milestones for dapagliflozin are met and up to an additional $390 million if all sales-based milestones for dapagliflozin are met. The
majority of costs under the initial plans through 2009 were paid by AstraZeneca and any additional development costs will generally be shared equally except for Japan, where AstraZeneca bears substantially all of the development costs prior to
approval of the first indication. We expense dapagliflozin development costs, net of our alliance partner s share, in research and development. Under the SGLT2 Agreement, like with the Saxagliptin Agreement, the two companies will jointly
develop the clinical and marketing strategy and share commercialization expenses and profits and losses for dapagliflozin equally on a global basis, and we will manufacture dapagliflozin and, with certain limited exceptions, recognize net sales in
most key markets. With respect to Japan, AstraZeneca has operational and cost responsibility for all development and regulatory activities on behalf of the collaboration, related to certain trials. All other development costs are shared by the two
companies. The two companies will jointly market the product in Japan, sharing all commercialization expenses and activities and splitting profits and losses equally like in the rest of the world. We will also manufacture dapagliflozin and recognize
net sales in Japan, like in the rest of the world. Dapagliflozin is currently being studied in Phase II clinical trials in Japan.   
         15   

In August 2012, BMS and AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
AstraZeneca, entered into a collaboration regarding the worldwide development and commercialization of Amylin s portfolio of products, including  Bydureon* ,  Byetta* ,  Symlin* . The arrangement is based on the framework of the
existing diabetes alliance agreements for  Onglyza  and  Forxiga  discussed above, including the equal sharing of profits and losses arising from the collaboration. AstraZeneca has indicated its intent to establish equal governance rights
over certain key strategic and financial decisions regarding the collaboration pending required anti-trust approvals in certain international markets.      BMS received preliminary proceeds of $3.6 billion from AstraZeneca as consideration for entering into the collaboration during 2012, which was accounted for as deferred income and is amortized as a
reduction to cost of products sold on a pro-rata basis over the estimated useful lives of the related long-lived assets assigned in the purchase price allocation (primarily intangible assets with a weighted-average estimated useful life of 12 years
and property, plant and equipment with a weighted-average estimated useful life of 15 years). The net proceeds that BMS will receive from AstraZeneca as consideration for entering into the collaboration are subject to certain other adjustments
including the right to receive an additional $135 million when AstraZeneca exercises its option for equal governance rights.   
  BMS and AstraZeneca agreed to share in certain tax attributes related to the Amylin collaboration. The preliminary proceeds of $3.6
billion that BMS received from AstraZeneca included $207 million related to sharing of certain tax attributes.      For further
discussion of our strategic alliance with AstraZeneca, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations  and  Investigational Compounds Under Development   Internally Discovered.    
   Otsuka  Simultaneously with the extension of the  Abilify*  Agreement, in April 2009, the Company and Otsuka entered into an
Oncology Agreement for  Sprycel  and  Ixempra  (ixabepilone), which includes the U.S., Japan and the EU markets (the Oncology Territory). Beginning in 2010 through 2020, the collaboration fees that we will pay to Otsuka annually are the
following percentages of the aggregate net sales of  Sprycel  and  Ixempra  in the Oncology Territory:       
    During these periods, Otsuka will contribute (i) 20% of the first $175 million of certain commercial
operational expenses relating to the oncology products in the Oncology Territory, and (ii) 1% of such commercial operational expenses relating to the products in the Oncology Territory in excess of $175 million. Beginning in 2011, Otsuka
copromotes  Sprycel  in the U.S. and Japan and has exercised the right to copromote in the top five EU markets beginning in January 2012.      The Oncology Agreement expires with respect to  Sprycel  and  Ixempra  in 2020 and includes the same change-of-control provision if we were acquired as the  Abilify*  Agreement described
above.      For a discussion of our  Abilify*  Agreement with Otsuka, see    Current Marketed
Products In-Licensed   above. For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Otsuka, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.    
   Pfizer  The Company and Pfizer are parties to a worldwide codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement for  Eliquis , an
anticoagulant discovered by us for the prevention and treatment of atrial fibrillation and venous thromboembolic (VTE) disorders. Pfizer funds 60% of all development costs since January 2007 and we fund 40%. We have received $654 million in upfront,
milestone and other licensing payments from Pfizer to date, including $95 million received in February 2013 and could receive up to an additional $230 million from Pfizer if all development and regulatory milestones are met. The companies jointly
develop the clinical and marketing strategy of  Eliquis , and share commercialization expenses and profits and losses equally on a global basis.      For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Pfizer, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.    
         16   

Investigational Compounds Under Development In-Licensed     
   Lilly  In January 2010, the Company and Lilly restructured the EGFR commercialization agreement to provide for the codevelopment and
cocommercialization of necitumumab (IMC-11F8), a fully human antibody currently in Phase III development for non-small cell lung cancer. In November 2012, BMS provided notice of termination of the collaboration agreement with Lilly for necitumumab.
The termination is effective May 2014, though we and Lilly may terminate earlier.       AbbVie  In August 2008, we were
granted exclusive rights from Facet Biotech Corporation (now AbbVie) for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of elotuzumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody being investigated as treatment for multiple myeloma. Under the terms of the agreement,
we fund 80% of the development costs for elotuzumab. Upon commercialization, Abbott will share 30% of all profits and losses in the U.S., and will be paid tiered royalties outside of the U.S. We will be solely responsible for commercialization
of elotuzumab. In addition, Abbott may receive milestone payments from us based on certain regulatory events and sales thresholds, if achieved.        Investigational Compounds Under Development Internally Discovered         Otsuka  In January 2007, we granted Otsuka exclusive rights in Japan to develop and commercialize  Onglyza . Under that agreement, we are entitled to receive milestone payments based on certain
regulatory events, as well as sales-based payments following regulatory approval of  Onglyza  in Japan, and we retained rights to copromote  Onglyza  with Otsuka in Japan. Otsuka is responsible for all development costs in Japan. In June
2012, Otsuka assigned all rights to  Onglyza , with the exception of specific transition services, to KHK. As part of its consent to this assignment, BMS waives its rights to co-promote  Onglyza  in Japan. BMS will supply finished
saxagliptin to KHK.       AstraZeneca  As part of the collaboration with AstraZeneca, BMS and AstraZeneca are codeveloping
metreleptin for the treatment of lipodystrophy, which is currently in the registrational process in Japan. Metreleptin was acquired by BMS as part of the Amylin acquisition. Please see the AstraZeneca description under   Current Marketed
Products   Internally Discovered and   Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations  for more information regarding the collaboration.        Other Collaborations        In February 2013, BMS and Reckitt Benckiser
Group plc (RBL) agreed to enter into a license and three year collaboration regarding several over-the-counter-products sold primarily in Mexico and Brazil. The transaction is expected to close during the first or second quarter of 2013,
subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. In connection with the collaboration, RBL will be responsible for all sales, distribution, marketing and certain regulatory matters and BMS will be responsible for the exclusive
supply of the products. Upon expiration of the collaboration, RBL will have the right to purchase the remaining assets of the business held by BMS at a price determined based on a multiple of sales (plus the cost of any remaining inventory held
by BMS at that time). RBL would then assume all responsibility for the products, though RBL may extend the term of the supply agreement with BMS under certain circumstances. If the option is not exercised, all assets previously transferred to RBL
during the collaboration period revert back to BMS. BMS is expected to receive proceeds of $482 million at the start of the collaboration period which will be allocated to the license and other rights transferred to RBL and the written option.
     In February 2013, BMS and The Medicines Company entered into a global license and two year collaboration for
 Recothrom , a recombinant thrombin for use as a topical hemostat to control non-arterial bleeding during surgical procedures (previously acquired by BMS in connection with its acquisition of ZymoGenetics in 2010). The Medicines Company is
responsible for all sales, distribution, marketing and regulatory matters relating to  Recothrom,  and BMS is responsible for the exclusive supply of the product. BMS received an upfront payment of $115 million. The collaboration expires
February 2015 at which time The Medicines Company has the right to purchase the remaining assets of the business held by BMS at a price determined based on a multiple of sales (plus the carrying cost of the inventory). If the option is not
exercised, all assets previously transferred to The Medicines Company, during the collaboration period revert back to BMS.      In
addition to the strategic alliances described above, we have other in-licensing and out-licensing arrangements. With respect to in-licenses, we have agreements with Novartis for  Reyataz  among others. Based on our current expectations with
respect to the expiration of market exclusivity in our significant markets, the licensing arrangements with Novartis for  Reyataz  are expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S. and the EU and 2019 in Japan. For further discussion of market
exclusivity protection, including a chart showing net sales of key products together with the year in which basic exclusivity loss occurred or is expected to occur in the U.S., the EU, Japan and Canada, see   Products  above.
     We own certain compounds out-licensed to third parties for development and commercialization, including those obtained as a
result of our acquisitions of ZymoGenetics in October 2010 and Medarex in August 2009. We are entitled to receive milestone payments as these compounds move through the regulatory process and royalties based on product sales, if and when the
products are commercialized.   
         17   

Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity    
  We own or license a number of patents in the U.S. and foreign countries primarily covering our products. We have also developed many brand
names and trademarks for our products. We consider the overall protection of our patents, trademarks, licenses and other intellectual property rights to be of material value and act to protect these rights from infringement.   
  In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product s commercial value is usually realized during the period in
which the product has market exclusivity. A product s market exclusivity is generally determined by two forms of intellectual property: patent rights held by the innovator company and any regulatory forms of exclusivity to which the innovative
drug is entitled.      Patents are a key determinant of market exclusivity for most branded pharmaceuticals. Patents provide the
innovator with the right to exclude others from practicing an invention related to the medicine. Patents may cover, among other things, the active ingredient(s), various uses of a drug product, pharmaceutical formulations, drug delivery mechanisms
and processes for (or intermediates useful in) the manufacture of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the expiration dates of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which
may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, its scope of coverage and the availability of meaningful legal remedies in the country.      Market exclusivity is also sometimes influenced by regulatory intellectual property rights. Many developed countries provide certain non-patent incentives for the development of medicines. For example, in
the U.S., the EU, Japan, Canada and certain other markets, regulatory intellectual property rights are offered as incentives for research on medicines for rare diseases, or orphan drugs, and on medicines useful in treating pediatric patients. These
incentives can extend the market exclusivity period on a product beyond the patent term.      The U.S., EU, Japan, China and
Canada also each provide for a minimum period of time after the approval of a new drug during which the regulatory agency may not rely upon the innovator s data to approve a competitor s generic copy, or data protection. In some regions
such as China, however, it is questionable whether such data protection laws are enforceable. In certain markets where patent protection and other forms of market exclusivity may have expired, data protection can be of particular importance.
However, most regulatory forms of exclusivity do not prevent a competitor from gaining regulatory approval prior to the expiration of regulatory data exclusivity on the basis of the competitor s own safety and efficacy data on its drug, even
when that drug is identical to that marketed by the innovator.      Specific aspects of the law governing market exclusivity and
data protection for pharmaceuticals vary from country to country. The following summarizes key exclusivity rules in markets representing significant sales:       United States       In the U.S., most of our key products are protected by
patents with varying terms depending on the type of patent and the filing date. A significant portion of a product s patent life, however, is lost during the time it takes an innovative company to develop and obtain regulatory approval of a new
drug. As compensation at least in part for the lost patent term, the innovator may, depending on a number of factors, extend the expiration date of one patent up to a maximum term of five years, provided that the extension cannot cause the patent to
be in effect for more than 14 years from the date of drug approval.      A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical
in the U.S. must submit a complete set of safety and efficacy data to the FDA. If the innovative pharmaceutical is a chemical, the company files a New Drug Application (NDA). If the medicine is a biological product, a Biologics License Application
(BLA) is filed. The type of application filed affects regulatory exclusivity rights.        Chemical products     
  A competitor seeking to launch a generic substitute of a chemical innovative drug in the U.S. must file an abbreviated NDA (aNDA) with the
FDA. In the aNDA, the generic manufacturer needs to demonstrate only  bioequivalence  between the generic substitute and the approved NDA drug. The aNDA relies upon the safety and efficacy data previously filed by the innovator in its NDA.
     An innovator company is required to list certain of its patents covering the medicine with the FDA in what is commonly known
as the Orange Book. Absent a successful patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an aNDA until after the innovator s listed patents expire. However, after the innovator has marketed its product for four years, a generic manufacturer may file an
aNDA and allege that one or more of the patents listed in the Orange Book under an innovator s NDA is either invalid or not infringed. This allegation is commonly known as a Paragraph IV certification. The innovator then must decide whether to
file a patent infringement suit against the generic manufacturer. From time to time, aNDAs, including Paragraph IV certifications, are filed with respect to certain of our products. We evaluate these aNDAs on a case-by-case basis and, where
warranted, file suit against the generic manufacturer to protect our patent rights.   
         18   

In addition to benefiting from patent protection, certain innovative pharmaceutical products
can receive periods of regulatory exclusivity. A NDA that is designated as an orphan drug can receive seven years of exclusivity for the orphan indication. During this time period, neither NDAs nor aNDAs for the same drug product can be approved for
the same orphan use. A company may also earn six months of additional exclusivity for a drug where specific clinical trials are conducted at the written request of the FDA to study the use of the medicine to treat pediatric patients, and submission
to the FDA is made prior to the loss of basic exclusivity.      Medicines approved under a NDA can also receive several types of
regulatory data protection. An innovative chemical pharmaceutical is entitled to five years of regulatory data protection in the U.S., during which competitors cannot file with the FDA for approval of generic substitutes. If an innovator s
patent is challenged, as described above, a generic manufacturer may file its aNDA after the fourth year of the five-year data protection period. A pharmaceutical drug product that contains an active ingredient that has been previously approved in
an NDA, but is approved in a new formulation, but not for the drug itself, or for a new indication on the basis of new clinical trials, receives three years of data protection for that formulation or indication.   
    Biologic products     
  The U.S. healthcare legislation enacted in 2010 created an approval pathway for biosimilar versions of innovative biological products that
did not previously exist. Prior to that time, innovative biologics had essentially unlimited regulatory exclusivity. Under the new regulatory mechanism, the FDA can approve products that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative
biologics on the basis of less extensive data than is required by a full BLA. After an innovator has marketed its product for four years, any manufacturer may file an application for approval of a  biosimilar  version of the innovator
product. However, although an application for approval of a biosimilar may be filed four years after approval of the innovator product, qualified innovative biological products will receive 12 years of regulatory exclusivity, meaning that the FDA
may not approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative biological product was first approved by the FDA. The law also provides a mechanism for innovators to enforce the patents that protect innovative biological products and for
biosimilar applicants to challenge the patents. Such patent litigation may begin as early as four years after the innovative biological products is first approved by the FDA.      In the U.S., the increased likelihood of generic and biosimilar challenges to innovators  intellectual property has increased the risk of loss of innovators  market exclusivity. First, generic
companies have increasingly sought to challenge innovators  basic patents covering major pharmaceutical products. Second, statutory and regulatory provisions in the U.S. limit the ability of an innovator company to prevent generic and
biosimilar drugs from being approved and launched while patent litigation is ongoing. As a result of all of these developments, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for a particular product with certainty based solely on
the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity.       European Union    
  Patents on pharmaceutical products are generally enforceable in the EU and, as in the U.S., may be extended to compensate for the patent
term lost during the regulatory review process. Such extensions are granted on a country-by-country basis.      The primary route
we use to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the EU is through the  centralized procedure.  This procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes,
and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a
Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) with the European Medicines Agency (EMA). After the EMA evaluates the MAA, it provides a recommendation to the European Commission (EC) and the EC then approves or denies the MAA. It is also possible for new
chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the EU through a  mutual recognition procedure,  in which an application is made to a single member state, and if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national
procedure, then the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states.   
  After obtaining marketing authorization approval, a company must obtain pricing and reimbursement for the pharmaceutical product, which
is typically subject to member state law. In certain EU countries, this process can take place simultaneously while the product is marketed but in other EU countries, this process must be completed before the company can market the new product. The
pricing and reimbursement procedure can take months and sometimes years to complete.      Throughout the EU, all products for
which marketing authorizations have been filed after October/November 2005 are subject to an  8+2+1  regime. Eight years after the innovator has received its first community authorization for a medicinal product, a generic company may file
a marketing authorization application for that product with the health authorities. If the marketing authorization application is approved, the generic company may not commercialize the product until after either 10 or 11 years have elapsed from the
initial marketing authorization granted to the innovator. The possible extension to 11 years is available if the innovator, during the first eight years of the marketing authorization, obtains an additional indication that is of significant clinical
benefit in comparison with existing treatments. For products that were filed prior to October/November 2005, there is a 10-year period of data protection under the centralized procedures and a period of either six or 10 years under the mutual
recognition procedure (depending on the member state).   
         19   

In contrast to the U.S., patents in the EU are not listed with regulatory authorities.
Generic versions of pharmaceutical products can be approved after data protection expires, regardless of whether the innovator holds patents covering its drug. Thus, it is possible that an innovator may be seeking to enforce its patents against a
generic competitor that is already marketing its product. Also, the European patent system has an opposition procedure in which generic manufacturers may challenge the validity of patents covering innovator products within nine months of grant.
     In general, EU law treats chemically-synthesized drugs and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual
property and data protection. In addition to the relevant legislation and annexes related to biologic medicinal products, the EMA has issued guidelines that outline the additional information to be provided for biosimilar products, also known as
generic biologics, in order to review an application for marketing approval.       Japan    
  In Japan, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded eight years of data exclusivity for approved indications and dosage.
Patents on pharmaceutical products are enforceable. Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after data exclusivity and patent expirations. As in the U.S., patents in Japan may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the
regulatory review process.      In general, Japanese law treats chemically-synthesized and biologically-derived drugs the same
with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity.       China    
  In China, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded six years of data exclusivity for approved indications and dosage.
There is uncertainty about China s exclusivity laws which has resulted in generic competition in the China market. Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after data exclusivity and patent expirations. Currently, unlike the U.S.,
China has no patent term restoration to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory process.      In general,
Chinese law treats chemically-synthesized and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity.   
   Canada       In Canada as of
2006, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded eight years of data exclusivity for approved indications and dosage. Patents on pharmaceutical products are enforceable. Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after data
exclusivity and patent expirations. Currently, unlike the U.S., Canada has no patent term restoration to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process.   
  In Canada, biologics are generally treated the same as chemically-synthesized products with respect to patent rights and regulatory
exclusivity. Health Canada has issued draft guidance that outlines the additional information to be provided for Subsequent Entry Biologics, also known as biosimilar products or generic biologics, in order to review an application for marketing
approval.       Rest of the World       In countries outside of the U.S., the EU, Japan, China and Canada, there is a wide variety of legal systems with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity of pharmaceuticals. Most other
developed countries utilize systems similar to either the U.S. or the EU (e.g., Switzerland). Among developing countries, some have adopted patent laws and/or regulatory exclusivity laws, while others have not. Some developing countries have
formally adopted laws in order to comply with World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments, but have not taken steps to implement these laws in a meaningful way. Enforcement of WTO actions is a long process between governments, and there is no
assurance of the outcome. Thus, in assessing the likely future market exclusivity of our innovative drugs in developing countries, we take into account not only formal legal rights but political and other factors as well.   
   Marketing, Distribution and Customers       We promote the appropriate use of our products directly to healthcare professionals and providers such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, technologists, hospitals,
Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) and Managed Care Organizations (MCOs). We also provide information about the appropriate use of our products to consumers in the U.S. through direct-to-consumer print, radio, television, and digital advertising and
promotion. In addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public about our innovative medical research and corporate mission. For a discussion of the regulation of promotion and marketing of pharmaceuticals, see   Government
Regulation and Price Constraints  below.   
         20   

Through our field sales and medical organizations, we explain the risks and benefits of the
approved uses of our products to medical professionals. We work to gain access for our products on formularies and reimbursement plans (lists of recommended or approved medicines and other products), including Medicare Part D plans by providing
information about the clinical profiles of our products. Our marketing and sales of prescription pharmaceuticals is limited to the approved uses of the particular product, but we continue to develop scientific data and other information about our
products and provide such information in response to unsolicited inquiries from doctors, other medical professionals and managed care organizations.      Our operations include several marketing and sales organizations. Each product marketing organization is supported by a sales force, which may be responsible for selling one or more products. We also have
marketing organizations that focus on certain classes of customers such as managed care entities or certain types of marketing tools, such as digital or consumer communications. Our sales forces focus on communicating information about new products
or new uses, as well as established products, and promotion to physicians is increasingly targeted at physician specialists who treat the patients in need of our medicines.      Our products are sold principally to wholesalers, and to a lesser extent, directly to distributors, retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies. Gross sales to the three largest
pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. as a percentage of our global gross sales were as follows:       
    Our U.S. business has Inventory Management Agreements (IMAs) with substantially all of our direct
wholesaler and distributor customers that allow us to monitor U.S. wholesaler inventory levels and requires those wholesalers to maintain inventory levels that are no more than one month of their demand. The IMAs for our three largest wholesalers
expire on March 31, 2013, while the other IMAs expire on December 14, 2014, all subject to certain termination provisions. We have reached agreements in principal with our three largest wholesalers, subject to negotiation and execution of
final agreements, which would extend the termination dates of those IMAs to December 14, 2014, subject to certain termination provisions.      In a number of defined markets outside of the U.S., we have established a full scale distributor model to make medically necessary drugs available to patients. We continue to own the marketing
authorization and trademarks for these products, but have contracted the services of a full-service distributor to provide distribution and logistics; regulatory and pharmacovigilance; and sales, advertising and promotion for certain products. These
contracts clearly define terms and conditions, along with the services we will provide (such as supply through a firm order period). We monitor in-market sales and forecasts to ensure that reasonable inventory levels for all products for sale are
maintained to fully and continuously meet the demand for the products within the distributor s territory or responsibility. Sales in these distributor-based markets represented less than 1% of the Company s net sales in 2012.   
   Competition       The markets
in which we compete are generally broad based and highly competitive. We compete with other worldwide research-based drug companies, many smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus and generic drug manufacturers. Important
competitive factors include product efficacy, safety and ease of use, price and demonstrated cost-effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, product labeling, customer service and research and development of new products and processes. Sales of our
products can be impacted by new studies that indicate a competitor s product is safer or more effective for treating a disease or particular form of disease than one of our products. Our sales also can be impacted by additional labeling
requirements relating to safety or convenience that may be imposed on products by the FDA or by similar regulatory agencies in different countries. If competitors introduce new products and processes with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products
can be subject to progressive price reductions or decreased volume of sales, or both.       Generic Competition    
  One of the biggest competitive challenges that we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. In the U.S. and the EU, the
regulatory approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy of the innovator product. As a result, generic
pharmaceutical manufacturers typically invest far less in research and development than research-based pharmaceutical companies and therefore can price their products significantly lower than branded products. Accordingly, when a branded product
loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the product. Upon the expiration or loss of market exclusivity on a product, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short
period of time.   
         21   

The rate of sales decline of a product after the expiration of exclusivity varies by
country. In general, the decline in the U.S. market is more rapid than in most other developed countries, though we have observed rapid declines in a number of EU countries as well. Also, the declines in developed countries tend to be more rapid
than in developing countries. The rate of sales decline after the expiration of exclusivity has also historically been influenced by product characteristics. For example, drugs that are used in a large patient population (e.g., those prescribed by
key primary care physicians) tend to experience more rapid declines than drugs in specialized areas of medicine (e.g., oncology). Drugs that are more complex to manufacture (e.g., sterile injectable products) usually experience a slower decline than
those that are simpler to manufacture.      In certain countries outside the U.S., patent protection is weak or nonexistent and we
must compete with generic versions shortly after we launch our innovative products. In addition, generic pharmaceutical companies may introduce a generic product before exclusivity has expired, and before the resolution of any related patent
litigation. For more information about market exclusivity, see   Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity  above.      We believe our long-term competitive position depends upon our success in discovering and developing innovative, cost-effective products that serve unmet medical needs, together with our ability to
manufacture products efficiently and to market them effectively in a highly competitive environment.       Managed Care Organizations
      The growth of MCOs in the U.S. is also a major factor in the healthcare marketplace. Over half of the U.S. population now
participates in some version of managed care. MCOs can include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health-maintenance organizations, Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, alliances of hospitals and physicians and other
physician organizations. Those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, larger entities, thus enhancing their purchasing strength and importance to us.      To successfully compete for business with MCOs, we must often demonstrate that our products offer not only medical benefits but also cost advantages as compared with other forms of care. Most new products
that we introduce compete with other products already on the market or products that are later developed by competitors. As noted above, generic drugs are exempt from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy
and, as such, often have lower costs than brand-name drugs. MCOs that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics for this reason. Many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in
their healthcare programs. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in many cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be essentially equivalent to a brand-name drug. The substitution must
be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it.      Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its
sharply reduced usage in the MCO patient population. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete aggressively to have their products included. Where possible, companies compete for inclusion based upon unique features of their products, such as
greater efficacy, better patient ease of use or fewer side effects. A lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. Products that demonstrate fewer therapeutic advantages must compete for inclusion based primarily on price. We have been
generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on MCO formularies.       Government Regulation and Price
Constraints       The pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive global regulation by regional, country, state and local
agencies. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDC Act), other Federal statutes and regulations, various state statutes and regulations, and laws and regulations of foreign governments govern to varying degrees the testing, approval,
production, labeling, distribution, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information, and promotion of our products. The lengthy process of laboratory and clinical testing, data analysis, manufacturing, development, and regulatory
review necessary for required governmental approvals is extremely costly and can significantly delay product introductions in a given market. Promotion, marketing, manufacturing and distribution of pharmaceutical products are extensively regulated
in all major world markets. In addition, our operations are subject to complex Federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations. We anticipate that the laws and regulations affecting the manufacture and
sale of current products and the introduction of new products will continue to require substantial scientific and technical effort, time and expense as well as significant capital investments.   
  Of particular importance is the FDA in the U.S. It has jurisdiction over virtually all of our activities and imposes requirements
covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of our products. In many cases, FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new
products and bring them to market in the U.S.   
         22   

The FDA mandates that drugs be manufactured, packaged and labeled in conformity with current
Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) established by the FDA. In complying with cGMP regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in production, recordkeeping and quality control to ensure that products meet applicable
specifications and other requirements to ensure product safety and efficacy. The FDA periodically inspects our drug manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with applicable cGMP requirements. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory
requirements subjects us to possible legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product or voluntary recall of a product. Adverse experiences with the use of products must be reported to the FDA and could result in
the imposition of market restrictions through labeling changes or product removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy occur following approval.
     The Federal government has extensive enforcement powers over the activities of pharmaceutical manufacturers, including
authority to withdraw product approvals, commence actions to seize and prohibit the sale of unapproved or non-complying products, to halt manufacturing operations that are not in compliance with cGMPs, and to impose or seek injunctions, voluntary
recalls, civil, monetary and criminal penalties. Such a restriction or prohibition on sales or withdrawal of approval of products marketed by us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash
flows.      Marketing authorization for our products is subject to revocation by the applicable governmental agencies. In
addition, modifications or enhancements of approved products or changes in manufacturing locations are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals, which may or may not be received and which may be subject to a lengthy application
process.      The distribution of pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act (PDMA) as part of the
FDC Act, which regulates such activities at both the Federal and state level. Under the PDMA and its implementing regulations, states are permitted to require registration of manufacturers and distributors who provide pharmaceuticals even if such
manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. States are also permitted to adopt regulations limiting the distribution of product samples to licensed practitioners. The PDMA also imposes extensive licensing, personnel
recordkeeping, packaging, quantity, labeling, product handling and facility storage and security requirements intended to prevent the sale of pharmaceutical product samples or other product diversions.   
  The FDA Amendments Act of 2007 imposed additional obligations on pharmaceutical companies and delegated more enforcement authority to the
FDA in the area of drug safety. Key elements of this legislation give the FDA authority to (1) require that companies conduct post-marketing safety studies of drugs, (2) impose certain drug labeling changes relating to safety,
(3) mandate risk mitigation measures such as the education of healthcare providers and the restricted distribution of medicines, (4) require companies to publicly disclose data from clinical trials and (5) pre-review television
advertisements.      The marketing practices of all U.S. pharmaceutical manufacturers are subject to Federal and state healthcare
laws that are used to protect the integrity of government healthcare programs. The Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (OIG) oversees compliance with applicable Federal laws, in connection with the payment
for products by government funded programs (primarily Medicaid and Medicare). These laws include the Federal anti-kickback statute, which criminalizes the offering of something of value to induce the recommendation, order or purchase of products or
services reimbursed under a government healthcare program. The OIG has issued a series of Guidances to segments of the healthcare industry, including the 2003 Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers (the OIG Guidance), which
includes a recommendation that pharmaceutical manufacturers, at a minimum, adhere to the PhRMA Code, a voluntary industry code of marketing practices. We subscribe to the PhRMA Code, and have implemented a compliance program to address the
requirements set forth in the OIG Guidance and our compliance with the healthcare laws. Failure to comply with these healthcare laws could subject us to administrative and legal proceedings, including actions by Federal and state government
agencies. Such actions could result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and injunctive remedies, the impact of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of
operations and cash flows.      We are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal and state regulatory and
enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services in the U.S. We are also licensed by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency to procure and produce
controlled substances. We are, therefore, subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these organizations. Such actions may result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and
injunctive or administrative remedies.      Our activities outside the U.S. are also subject to regulatory requirements governing
the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products. These regulatory requirements vary from country to country. Whether or not FDA approval or approval of the EMA has been obtained for a product,
approval of the product by comparable regulatory authorities of countries outside of the U.S. or the EU, as the case may be, must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those countries. The approval process may be more or less rigorous from
country to country, and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the U.S. Approval in one country does not assure that a product will be approved in another country.   
         23   

In many markets outside the U.S., we operate in an environment of government-mandated,
cost-containment programs. Several governments have placed restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic drugs and/or enacted across-the-board price cuts as methods of cost control. In
most EU countries, for example, the government regulates pricing of a new product at launch often through direct price controls, international price comparisons, controlling profits and/or reference pricing. In other markets, such as the UK and
Germany, the government does not set pricing restrictions at launch, but pricing freedom is subsequently limited, such as by the operation of a profit and price control plan in the UK and by the operation of a reference price system in Germany.
Companies also face significant delays in market access for new products, mainly in France, Spain, Italy and Belgium, and more than two years can elapse before new medicines become available on some national markets. Additionally, member states of
the EU have regularly imposed new or additional cost containment measures for pharmaceuticals. In recent years, Italy, for example, has imposed mandatory price decreases. The existence of price differentials within the EU due to the different
national pricing and reimbursement laws leads to significant parallel trade flows.      In the U.S. the healthcare industry is
subject to various government-imposed regulations authorizing prices or price controls that have and will continue to have an impact on our net sales. We participate in state government Medicaid programs, as well as certain other qualifying Federal
and state government programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to participating state and local government entities. We also participate in government programs that specify discounts to certain government entities, the most significant of
which are the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. These entities receive minimum discounts based off a defined  non-federal average manufacturer price  for purchases. In March 2010, the U.S. government
enacted healthcare reform legislation, signing into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (HR 3590) and a reconciliation bill containing a package of changes to the healthcare bill. The legislation makes extensive changes to the current
system of healthcare insurance and benefits intended to broaden coverage and reduce costs. These bills significantly change how Americans receive healthcare coverage and how they pay for it. They also have a significant impact on companies, in
particular those companies in the pharmaceutical industry and other healthcare related industries, including BMS. We have experienced and will continue to experience additional financial costs and certain other changes to our business as the new
healthcare law is implemented. For example, minimum rebates on our Medicaid drug sales have increased from 15.1 percent to 23.1 percent and Medicaid rebates have also been extended to drugs used in risk-based Medicaid managed care plans. In
addition, we extend discounts to certain critical access hospitals, cancer hospitals and other covered entities as required by the expansion of the 340B Drug Pricing Program under the Public Health Service Act.   
  In 2011, we were also required to provide a 50 percent discount on our brand-name drugs to patients who fall within the Medicare Part D
coverage gap, also referred to as the  donut hole  and we will pay an annual non-tax-deductible fee to the federal government based on an allocation of our market share of branded prior year sales to certain government programs including
Medicare, Medicaid, Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense and TRICARE.      For further discussion of these
rebates and programs, see  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Net Sales  and   Critical Accounting Policies.    
   Sources and Availability of Raw Materials       In general, we purchase our raw materials and supplies required for the production of our products in the open market. For some products, we purchase our raw materials and supplies from one source (the
only source available to us) or a single source (the only approved source among many available to us), thereby requiring us to obtain such raw materials and supplies from that particular source. We attempt, if possible, to mitigate our raw material
supply risks, through inventory management and alternative sourcing strategies. For further discussion of sourcing, see   Manufacturing and Quality Assurance  below and discussions of particular products.   
   Manufacturing and Quality Assurance       To meet all expected product demand, we operate and manage our manufacturing network, including our third-party contract manufacturers, and the inventory related thereto, in a manner that permits us to
improve efficiency while maintaining flexibility to reallocate manufacturing capacity. Pharmaceutical production processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely from product to product. Given that shifting or adding manufacturing capacity
can be a lengthy process requiring significant capital and other expenditures as well as regulatory approvals, we maintain and operate our flexible manufacturing network, consisting of internal and external resources that minimize unnecessary
product transfers and inefficient uses of manufacturing capacity. For further discussion of the regulatory impact on our manufacturing, see   Government Regulation and Price Constraints  above.   
  Our pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities are located in the U.S., Puerto Rico, France, Italy, Ireland, Japan, Mexico and China and
require significant ongoing capital investment for both maintenance and compliance with increasing regulatory requirements. In addition, as our product line changes over the next several years, we expect to continue modification of our existing
manufacturing network to meet complex processing standards that may be required for newly introduced products, including biologics. Biologics manufacturing involves more complex processes than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. The FDA
approved our large scale multi-product bulk biologics manufacturing facility in Devens, Massachusetts in May 2012.   
         24   

We rely on third parties to manufacture or supply us with certain active ingredients
necessary for us to manufacture various products, including  Plavix* ,  Baraclude ,  Avalide* ,  Reyataz ,  Abilify* ,  Erbitux* , the  Sustiva  Franchise,  Orencia ,  Yervoy ,  Onglyza ,
 Kombiglyze  and  Forxiga . To maintain a stable supply of these products, we take a variety of actions including inventory management and maintenance of additional quantities of materials, when possible, designed to provide for a
reasonable level of these ingredients to be held by the third-party supplier, us or both, so that our manufacturing operations are not interrupted. As an additional protection, in some cases, we take steps to maintain an approved back-up source
where available. For example, we will rely on the capacity of our Devens, Massachusetts facility and the capacity available at our third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture  Orencia .   
  If we or any third-party manufacturer that we rely on for existing or future products is unable to maintain a stable supply of products,
operate at sufficient capacity to meet our order requirements, comply with government regulations for manufacturing pharmaceuticals or meet the complex processing requirements for biologics, our business performance and prospects could be negatively
impacted. Additionally, if we or any of our third-party suppliers were to experience extended plant shutdowns or substantial unplanned increases in demand or suspension of manufacturing for regulatory reasons, we could experience an interruption in
supply of certain products or product shortages until production could be resumed or expanded.      In connection with
divestitures, licensing arrangements or distribution agreements of certain of our products, or in certain other circumstances, we have entered into agreements under which we have agreed to supply such products to third parties. In addition to
liabilities that could arise from our failure to supply such products under the agreements, these arrangements could require us to invest in facilities for the production of non-strategic products, result in additional regulatory filings and
obligations or cause an interruption in the manufacturing of our own products.      Our success depends in great measure upon
customer confidence in the quality of our products and in the integrity of the data that support their safety and effectiveness. Product quality arises from a total commitment to quality in all parts of our operations, including research and
development, purchasing, facilities planning, manufacturing, and distribution. We maintain quality-assurance procedures relating to the quality and integrity of technical information and production processes.   
  Control of production processes involves detailed specifications for ingredients, equipment and facilities, manufacturing methods,
processes, packaging materials and labeling. We perform tests at various stages of production processes and on the final product to ensure that the product meets regulatory requirements and our standards. These tests may involve chemical and
physical chemical analyses, microbiological testing, or a combination of these along with other analyses. Quality control is provided by business unit/site quality assurance groups that monitor existing manufacturing procedures and systems used by
us, our subsidiaries and third-party suppliers.       Environmental Regulation    
  Our facilities and operations are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and
human health and safety, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water; the use, management and disposal of hazardous, radioactive and biological materials and wastes; and the cleanup of contamination. Pollution controls
and permits are required for many of our operations, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal or revocation by the issuing authorities.      Our environment, health and safety group monitors our operations around the world, providing us with an overview of regulatory requirements and overseeing the implementation of our standards for
compliance. We also incur operating and capital costs for such matters on an ongoing basis. We expended approximately $21 million in 2012, $16 million in 2011 and $15 million in 2010 on capital projects undertaken specifically to meet environmental
requirements. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements and the permits required for our operations, we nevertheless could incur additional costs, including civil or
criminal fines or penalties, clean-up costs, or third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, for violations or liabilities under these laws.      Many of our current and former facilities have been in operation for many years, and over time, we and other operators of those facilities have generated, used, stored or disposed of substances or wastes
that are considered hazardous under Federal, state and/or foreign environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA). As a result, the soil and groundwater at or under certain of
these facilities is or may be contaminated, and we may be required to make significant expenditures to investigate, control and remediate such contamination, and in some cases to provide compensation and/or restoration for damages to natural
resources. Currently, we are involved in investigation and remediation at 14 current or former facilities. We have also been identified as a  potentially responsible party  (PRP) under applicable laws for environmental conditions at
approximately 23 former waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third parties at which investigation and/or remediation activities are ongoing.      We may face liability under CERCLA and other Federal, state and foreign laws for the entire cost of investigation or remediation of contaminated sites, or for natural resource damages, regardless of fault
or ownership at the time of the disposal or release. In addition, at certain sites we bear remediation responsibility pursuant to contractual obligations. Generally, at third-party operator sites involving multiple PRPs, liability has been or is
expected to be apportioned based on the nature and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable PRPs. For additional information about these matters, see  Item 8. Financial
Statements Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.    
         25   

Employees       As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 28,000 people.       Foreign Operations
      We have significant operations outside the U.S. They are conducted both through our subsidiaries and through distributors.
     For a geographic breakdown of net sales, see the table captioned Geographic Areas in  Item 8. Financial
Statements Note 2. Business Segment Information  and for further discussion of our net sales by geographic area see  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Net
Sales.       International operations are subject to certain risks, which are inherent in conducting business abroad,
including, but not limited to, currency fluctuations, possible nationalization or expropriation, price and exchange controls, counterfeit products, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises and other restrictive governmental actions.
Our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws on pricing or reimbursement for use of products.      Depending on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. The change in
foreign exchange rates had a net unfavorable impact on the growth rate of revenues in 2012. While we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on the growth rate of revenues, we attempt to
mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments. See the discussions under  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 9.
Financial Instruments.        Bristol-Myers Squibb Website       Our internet website address is  www.bms.com . On our website, we make available, free of charge, our annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnishes such material to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).      Information relating to corporate governance at Bristol-Myers Squibb, including our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Code of Business Conduct and
Ethics for Directors, (collectively, the  Codes ), Corporate Governance Guidelines, and information concerning our Executive Committee, Board of Directors, including Board Committees and Committee charters, and transactions in
Bristol-Myers Squibb securities by directors and executive officers, is available on our website under the  Investors Corporate Governance  caption and in print to any stockholder upon request. Any waivers to the Codes by directors or
executive officers and any material amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers will be posted promptly on our website. Information relating to stockholder services, including
our Dividend Reinvestment Plan and direct deposit of dividends, is available on our website under the  Investors Stockholder Services  caption.      We incorporate by reference certain information from parts of our proxy statement for the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in
that manner. Please refer to such information. Our proxy statement for the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and 2012 Annual Report will be available on our website under the  Investors SEC Filings  caption on or about
March 21, 2013.   
         26   

Item 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS.         Any of the
factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results, or credit ratings, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Additional risks and
uncertainties not presently known to us, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our operations.   
    We face intense competition from other biopharmaceutical manufacturers, including for both innovative medicines and lower-priced
generic products.         Competition, including lower-priced generic versions of our products, is a major challenge both
within the U.S. and internationally. We face patent expirations and increasingly aggressive generic competition. Such competition may include (i) new products developed by competitors that have lower prices, real or perceived superior efficacy
(benefit) or safety (risk) profiles, or that are otherwise competitive with our products; (ii) technological advances and patents attained by our competitors; (iii) earlier-than-expected competition from generic companies;
(iv) clinical study results from our products or a competitor s products; (v) business combinations among our competitors and major customers; and (vi) competing interests for external partnerships to develop and bring new
products to markets. We could also experience limited or no market access from real or perceived differences in value propositions for our products compared with competitors.    
    It is possible that we may lose market exclusivity of a product earlier than expected.     
   In the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product s commercial value is usually realized
during the period in which it has market exclusivity. In the U.S. and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there are usually very substantial and rapid declines in the
product s sales.        Market exclusivity for our products is based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms
of exclusivity. The scope of our patent rights vary from country to country and may also be dependent on the availability of meaningful legal remedies in that country. The failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or
limitations on the use or loss of such rights, could be material to us. In some countries, including certain EU member states, basic patent protection for our products may not exist because certain countries did not historically offer the right to
obtain specific types of patents and/or we (or our licensors) did not file in those markets. In addition, the patent environment outside the U.S. can be unpredictable and the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty.
Absent relevant patent protection for a product, once the data exclusivity period expires, generic versions of the product can be approved and marketed. In addition, prior to the expiration of data exclusivity, a competitor could seek regulatory
approval by submitting its own clinical trial data to obtain marketing approval.        Manufacturers of generic products are
also increasingly seeking to challenge patents before they expire. Key patents covering three of our key products (Atripla*, Baraclude and Sprycel) are currently the subject of patent litigation. In some cases, generic manufacturers may choose to
launch a generic product  at risk  before the expiration of the applicable patent(s) and/or before the final resolution of related patent litigation. For example, we may face generic competition for   Baraclude   beginning in
2013 following a federal court s decision to invalidate the composition of matter patent in February 2013. There is no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in the estimates
disclosed in this Form 10-K.         Increased pricing pressure and other restrictions in the U.S. and abroad from managed
care organizations, institutional purchasers, and government agencies and programs could negatively affect our net sales and profit margins.         Pharmaceutical products continue to be subject to increasing price pressures and other restrictions in the U.S., the EU and other regions around the world, including but not limited to: (i) rules
and practices of managed care organizations and institutional and governmental purchasers; (ii) judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations for Medicare, Medicaid and U.S. healthcare reform, including the 2010 Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act and any potential additional U.S. healthcare reform measures; (iii) the potential impact of importation restrictions, legislative and/or regulatory changes, pharmaceutical reimbursement, Medicare Part D Formularies and
product pricing in general; (iv) delays in gaining reimbursement and/or reductions in reimbursement amounts in countries with government-mandated, cost-containment programs; (v) government price erosion mechanisms across Europe, resulting
in deflation for pharmaceutical product pricing; (vi) other developments in technology and/or industry practices that could directly or indirectly impact the reimbursement policies and practices of third-party payers; and (vii) limited or
no market access due to real or perceived differences in value propositions for our products compared to competing products.         We may
experience difficulties or delays in the development and commercialization of new products.         Developing and
commercializing new products includes inherent risks and uncertainties, such as (i) compounds or products that may appear promising in development but fail to reach market within the expected or optimal timeframe, or fail ever to reach market
or to be approved for product extensions or additional indications, including for efficacy or safety concerns, the delay or denial of necessary regulatory approvals, delays or difficulties with producing products at a commercial scale level or
excessive costs to manufacture products; (ii) failure to enter into or successfully implement optimal alliances for the development and/or commercialization of new products; (iii) failure to maintain a consistent scope and variety of
promising late-stage products; (iv) failure of one or more of our products to achieve or maintain commercial viability; and (v) changes in the regulatory approval processes that may cause delays or denials of new product approvals. We have
observed a recent trend by the U.S. Food   Drug Administration to delay its approval decision on a new product beyond its announced action date by as much as six months or longer.
   
         27   

Regulatory approval delays are especially common when the product is expected to have a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy as required by the FDA to address significant risk/benefit issues.
The inability to bring a product to market or a significant delay in the expected approval and related launch date of a new product could potentially have a negative impact on our net sales and earnings and, if the product was acquired, it could
result in a significant impairment of in-process research and development or other intangible assets. Further, if certain acquired pipeline programs are cancelled or if we believe that their commercial prospects have been reduced, we may recognize
material non-cash impairment charges for those programs. These non-cash impairment charge could be material such as the $1.8 billion impairment for BMS-986094, which we recorded in 2012. Finally, a natural or man-made disaster or sabotage of
research and development labs, our compound library and/or a loss of key molecules and intermediaries could negatively impact the product development cycle.         Failure to execute our business strategy could adversely impact our growth and profitability.         We are a biopharmaceutical company with a focus on innovative products for high unmet medical needs. To build a foundation for the future, our strategy is to grow our key marketed products, advance our
late-stage pipeline and manage our costs. We may not be able to consistently replenish our innovative pipeline, through internal research and development or transactions with third parties. The competition among major pharmaceutical companies for
acquisition and product licensing opportunities is intense, and we may not be able to locate suitable acquisition targets or licensing partners at reasonable prices, or successfully execute such transactions. We also may not be able to realize the
expected increased efficiencies and effectiveness from continuous improvement initiatives or other changes in our structure or operations, including from the recent reorganization of our commercial operations and the creation of our Enterprises
Services organization. In addition, realizing synergies and other expected benefits from acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, alliances, restructurings or other strategic initiatives, may take longer than expected to complete or may encounter other
difficulties, including the need for regulatory approval where applicable. If we are unable to support and grow our currently marketed products, successfully execute the launches of newly approved products, advance our late-stage pipeline and manage
our costs effectively, we could experience a significant or material negative impact to our operating results and financial condition. In addition, our failure to hire and retain personnel with the right expertise and experience in critical
operations could adversely impact the execution of our business strategy.         The businesses we acquire may
underperform, and we may not be able to successfully integrate them into our existing business.         We may continue to
support our pipeline with our licensing and acquisitions strategy. In August 2012, we acquired Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Amylin), a biopharmaceuticals company dedicated to the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative medicines
for patients with diabetes and other metabolic diseases. Amylin and our other acquired businesses, products and technologies may underperform relative to expectations, which may negatively impact our financial results including potential impairment
charges for acquired intangible assets, including identifiable intangible assets attributed to the Amylin acquisition of $6.5 billion at the acquisition date. Future sales, profits and cash flows of an acquired company s products, technologies
and pipeline candidates, may not materialize due to lower product uptake, delayed or missed pipeline opportunities, the inability to capture expected synergies, increased competition, safety concerns, regulatory issues, supply chain problems, or
other factors beyond our control. Substantial difficulties, costs and delays could result from integrating our acquisitions including for (i) research   development, manufacturing, distribution, sales, marketing, promotion and
information technology activities; (ii) policies, procedures, processes, controls and compliance; (iii) company cultures; (iv) compensation structures and other human resource activities; and (v) tax considerations.
        We depend on certain key products for most of our net sales, cash flows and earnings.     
   We have historically derived a majority of our revenue and earnings from a few key products. For example, Plavix* represented over 33%
of our revenues in 2011. While we are becoming less dependent on any single product, we still derive a significant amount of our revenues from a few key products. In 2012, Abilify* net sales of $2.8 billion represented 16% of revenues. Reyataz and
the Sustiva franchise, with combined net sales of $3.0 billion, each represented approximately 9% of revenues, Baraclude, Sprycel and Orencia net sales each exceeded $1.0 billion. A reduction in net sales of one or more of these products could
significantly negatively impact our net sales, cash flows and earnings.         Changes in U.S. or foreign laws and
regulations may negatively affect our net sales and profit margins.         We could become subject to new government laws
and regulations, such as (i) additional healthcare reform initiatives in the U.S. or in other countries, including additional mandatory discounts; (ii) changes in corporate tax regulation, including as part of the proposed U.S. budget
deficit reduction package, which could include limiting foreign tax credits, taxing certain tax havens, taxing certain excess income from transferring intellectual property, limiting or disallowing certain U.S. deductions for operating and interest
expenses, changing rules for earnings repatriations and eliminating certain tax credits, as well as changing the tax rate or phasing out currently available tax benefits in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries or other changes in tax law;
(iii) new laws, regulations and judicial or other governmental decisions affecting pricing, drug reimbursement, receivable repayment, access or marketing within or across jurisdictions; (iv) changes in intellectual property law;
(v) changes in accounting standards; (vi) increasing data privacy regulations and enforcement; (vii) emerging and new requirements regarding payments to healthcare professionals, and (viii) other matters, such as compulsory
licenses that could alter the protections afforded to one or more of our products. Any legal or regulatory changes could negatively affect our business, our operating results and the financial condition of our company. Emerging legislation to reduce
the budget deficit in the U.S. or in other countries, if enacted, will likely further reduce our operating results.    
         28   

Product labeling changes for our marketed products could potentially result in
unexpected safety or efficacy concerns and have a negative impact on that product s sales.         Regulatory
authorities can change the labeling for any pharmaceutical product at any time, including after the product has been on the market for years. These changes are often the result of additional data from post-marketing studies, head-to-head trials,
reporting of adverse events, studies that identify biomarkers (objective characteristics that can indicate a particular response to a product or therapy), or other studies that produce important additional information about a product. The new
information added to a product s label can affect the safety and/or the efficacy profile of the product, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining revenue, as well as product liability claims. Sometimes the additional information
from these studies identifies a portion of the patient population that may be non-responsive to a medicine and labeling changes based on such studies may limit the patient population, such as the changes to the labeling for Plavix* and Erbitux* a
few years ago. The studies providing such additional information may be sponsored by us, but they can also be sponsored by our competitors, insurance companies, government institutions, managed care organizations, influential scientists,
investigators, or other interested parties. While additional safety and efficacy information from these studies assist us and healthcare providers in identifying the best patient population for each of our products, it can also have a negative
impact on sales for any such product to the extent that the patient population or product labeling becomes more limited. Additionally, certain study results, especially from head-to-head trials, could affect a product s formulary listing, which
could also adversely affect sales.         We could experience difficulties and delays in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our
products.         Our product supply and related patient access to products could be negatively impacted by, among other
things: (i) seizure or recalls of products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (ii) supply chain continuity including from natural or man-made disasters at one of our facilities or at a critical supplier or vendor, as well as our
failure or the failure of any of our vendors or suppliers to comply with Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays
in product manufacturing; (iii) manufacturing, quality assurance/quality control, supply problems or governmental approval delays; (iv) the failure of a sole source or single source supplier to provide us with necessary raw materials,
supplies or finished goods for an extended period of time; (v) the failure of a third-party manufacturer to supply us with finished product on time; (vi) construction or regulatory approval delays related to new facilities or the expansion
of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for our biologics products; (vii) the failure to meet new and emerging regulations requiring products to be tracked throughout the distribution channels using unique
identifiers; and (viii) other manufacturing or distribution issues including limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements; changes in the types of products produced, such as biologics; physical limitations or other business
interruptions.         Adverse outcomes in legal matters could negatively affect our business.     
   Current or future lawsuits, claims, proceedings and government investigations could preclude or delay commercialization of products or
could potentially adversely affect operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition, after any possible insurance recoveries where available. Such legal matters include (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) sales and
marketing practices in the U.S. and internationally; (iii) adverse decisions in litigation, including product liability and commercial cases; (iv) recalls or withdrawals of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing
plants; (v) the failure to fulfill obligations under supply contracts with the government and other customers; (vi) product pricing and promotional matters; (vii) lawsuits and claims asserting, or investigations into, violations of
securities, antitrust, Federal and state pricing, consumer protection, antibribery (such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practice Act or UK Anti-Bribery Act) and other laws; (viii) environmental, health and safety matters; and (ix) tax
liabilities.         We depend on third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations.
        We rely on suppliers, vendors, outsourcing partners, alliance partners and other third parties to research,
develop, manufacture, commercialize, co-promote and sell our products; manage certain human resource, finance, information technology and other functional services; and meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations in relation to their
arrangements with us. Some of these third-party providers are located in markets that are subject to political risk, corruption, infrastructure problems and natural disasters in addition to country specific privacy and data security risks given
current legal and regulatory environments. The failure of any critical third party to meet its obligations; adequately deploy business continuity plans in the event of a crisis; and/or satisfactorily resolve significant disagreements with us or
address other factors, could have a material adverse impact on the Company s operations and results. In addition, if these third parties violate or are alleged to have violated any laws or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practice Act, U.K. Bribery Act and other similar laws and regulations, during the performance of their obligations for us, it is possible that we could suffer financial and reputational harm or other negative outcomes, including possible legal
consequences.         We are increasingly dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face
certain risks, including from cyber security and data leakage.         A significant breakdown, invasion, corruption,
destruction or interruption of critical information technology systems, or infrastructure by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. The ever-increasing use and evolution
of technology, including cloud-based computing, creates opportunities for data leakage of confidential information. We could also experience a business interruption, information theft, or reputational damage from malware or other cyber attacks,
which may compromise our system infrastructure or lead to data leakage, either internally or at our third-party providers. Although the aggregate impact on our operations and financial condition has not been material to date, we have been the
targets of events of this nature and expect them to continue. We have invested in industry appropriate protections and monitoring practices of our data and information technology to reduce these risks and continue to monitor our systems on an
ongoing basis for any current or potential threats. There can be no assurance, however, that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches to our or our third party providers  databases or systems that could adversely affect our business.
   
         29   

The expansion of social media platforms presents new risks and challenges.     
   The inappropriate and/or unauthorized use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to
legal implications, including from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information. In addition, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us on any social networking web site could damage our reputation,
brand image and goodwill. Further, the disclosure of non-public company sensitive information through external media channels could lead to information loss, as there might not be structured processes in place to secure and protect information.
Identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand presents new challenges.         Adverse changes in U.S., global,
regional or local economic conditions could adversely affect our profitability.         The world s major economies
hold historically-high debt levels while experiencing slow economic growth and high unemployment. The European sovereign debt crisis has strained government spending and created capital markets volatility. We have significant operations in Europe,
including for manufacturing. Our exposure to customer credit risks in Europe, including from government-guaranteed hospital receivables, will likely increase as our ability to factor receivables becomes more limited. In addition, future pension plan
funding requirements continue to be sensitive to global economic conditions and the related impact on equity markets. We are also exposed to other commercial risks and economic factors over which we have no control, which could pose significant
challenges to our underlying profitability.         Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could have a material
adverse effect on our operating results and liquidity.         We have significant operations outside of the U.S. Net sales
from operations outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 41% of our net sales in 2012. As such, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates which can be difficult to mitigate. We are also exposed to changes in interest
rates. Our ability to access the money markets and/or capital markets could be impeded if adverse liquidity market conditions occur.    
    The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or stolen products could have a negative impact on our
reputation and business.         Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products,
which do not meet our rigorous manufacturing and testing standards. A patient who receives a counterfeit drug may be at risk for a number of dangerous health consequences. Our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit
drugs sold under our brand name. In addition, thefts of inventory at warehouses, plants or while in-transit, which are not properly stored and which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation and
our business.        

Item 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.         None.

Item 2.   
   PROPERTIES.         Our world
headquarters are located at 345 Park Avenue, New York, NY, where we lease approximately 81,000 square feet of floor space. We own or lease approximately 218 properties in 48 countries.   
  We manufacture products at 12 worldwide locations, all of which are owned by us. Our manufacturing locations and aggregate square feet of
floor space by geographic area were as follows at December 31, 2012:       
    Portions of these manufacturing locations and the other properties owned or leased by us in the U.S. and
elsewhere are used for research and development, administration, storage and distribution. For further information about our properties, see  Item 1. Business Manufacturing and Quality Assurance.    
         30   

Item 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.      
  Information pertaining to legal proceedings can be found in  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 21. Legal Proceedings and
Contingencies  and is incorporated by reference herein.       

Item 4.   
   MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.         Not applicable.
  
         31   

PART IA        Executive Officers of the Registrant       Listed below is information on our
executive officers as of February 15, 2013. Executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors for an initial term, which continues until the first Board meeting following the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders, and thereafter, are
elected for a one-year term or until their successors have been elected. All executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.       

Name and Current Position    
      
     Age    
      
     Employment History for the Past 5 Years     

Lamberto Andreotti         Chief Executive Officer and Director       Member of the Senior Management
Team     
      
  62  
      
    2005 to 2007   Executive Vice President and President, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals, a division of the
Company.     2007 to 2008   Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals, a division of the
Company.     2008 to 2009   Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.  
  2009 to 2010   President and Chief Operating Officer and Director of the Company.  
  2010 to present   Chief Executive Officer and Director of the Company.    

Charles Bancroft         Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer       Member of the
Senior Management Team    
      
  53  
      
    2005 to 2009   Vice President, Finance, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals, a division of the Company.  
  2010 to 2011   Chief Financial Officer of the Company.     2011 to present   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company.    

Giovanni Caforio, M.D.         President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals       Member of the Senior Management
Team    
      
  48  
      
    2007 to 2009   Senior Vice President, U.S. Oncology, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals, a division of the
Company.     2009 to 2010   Senior Vice President, Oncology, Global Commercialization.  
  2011 to 2011   Senior Vice President, Oncology and Immunoscience, Global Commercialization.  
  2011 to present   President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals.    

Joseph C. Caldarella         Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller    
      
  57  
      
    2005 to 2010   Vice President and Corporate Controller.  
  2010 to present   Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller.    

Beatrice Cazala         Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations       Member of the Senior
Management Team    
      
  56  
      
    2004 to 2008   President, EMEA, Worldwide Medicines International.  
  2008 to 2009   President, EMEA and Asia Pacific, Worldwide Medicines International.  
  2009 to 2010   President, Global Commercialization, and President, Europe.  
  2010 to 2011   Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations, and President, Global Commercialization, Europe and Emerging
Markets.     2011 to present   Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations.    

Francis Cuss, MB BChir, FRCP         Senior Vice President, Research       Member of the Senior Management
Team    
      
  58  
      
    2006 to 2010   Senior Vice President, Discovery and Exploratory Clinical Research.  
  2010 to present   Senior Vice President, Research, Research and
Development.     
         32   

Brian Daniels, M.D.      Senior Vice President, Global Development and       Medical Affairs, Research and
Development       Member of the Senior Management Team    
      
  53  
      
    2004 to 2008   Senior Vice President, Global Clinical Development, Research and Development, a division of the
Company.     2008 to present   Senior Vice President, Global Development and Medical Affairs, Research and
Development.    

John E. Elicker       Senior Vice President, Public Affairs and Investor       Relations   
   Member of the Senior Management Team    
      
  53  
      
    2000 to 2002   Senior Director, Investor Relations.  
  2002 to 2010  Vice President, Investor Relations.     2010 to 2012   Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.     2012 to present
  Senior Vice President, Public Affairs and Investor Relations.    

Frances Heller       Senior Vice President, Business Development       Member of the Senior Management
Team    
      
  46  
      
    2003 to 2008   Head, Strategic Alliances at Novartis Pharmaceuticals.  
  2008 to 2011   Executive Vice President, Exelixis.     2011 to 2012   Instructor, Stanford University.     2012 to present   Senior
Vice President, Business Development.    

Sandra Leung         General Counsel and Corporate Secretary       Member of the Senior Management
Team     
      
  52  
      
    2006 to 2007   Vice President, Corporate Secretary and Acting General Counsel.  
  2007 to present   General Counsel and Corporate Secretary.    

Samuel J. Moed       Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning and Analysis       Member of the Senior Management
Team    
      
  50  
      
    2005 to 2010   Senior Vice President, Worldwide Strategy and Operations.  
  2010 to 2012   Senior Vice President, Strategy.     2012 to present   Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning and Analysis.    

Louis S. Schmukler       President, Global Manufacturing and Supply       Member of the Senior Management
Team    
      
  57  
      
    2007 to 2009   Senior Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operating Unit, Wyeth.  
  2009 to 2011   Senior Vice President, Specialty/Biotechnology Operating Unit, Pfizer.  
  2011 to present   President, Global Manufacturing and Supply.    

Elliott Sigal, M.D., Ph.D.         Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer and       President,
Research and Development and Director       Member of the Senior Management Team     
      
  61  
      
    2006 to 2011   Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research and
Development.     2011 to present   Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research and Development,
and Director of the Company.    

Paul von Autenried       Senior Vice President, Enterprise Services and Chief       Information Officer   
   Member of the Senior Management Team    
      
  51  
      
    2007 to 2011   Vice President and Chief Information Officer.  
  2011 to 2012   Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer.  
  2012 to present   Senior Vice President, Enterprise Services and Chief Information Officer.    
 
         33   

PART II    

Item 5.   
   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON STOCK AND OTHER STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.          Market Prices       Bristol-Myers Squibb common and preferred stocks are traded
on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) (Symbol: BMY). A quarterly summary of the high and low market prices is presented below:       

*  
  During 2012 and the first, third and fourth quarters of 2011, there were no observable trades of the Company s preferred stock.     
   Holders of Common Stock       The number of
record holders of common stock at December 31, 2012 was 53,969.      The number of record holders is based upon the actual
number of holders registered on our books at such date and does not include holders of shares in  street names  or persons, partnerships, associations, corporations or other entities identified in security position listings maintained by
depository trust companies.       Dividends       Our Board of Directors declared the following dividends per share, which were paid in 2012 and 2011 in the quarters indicated below:   
   
    In December 2012, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.35 per share on our common
stock which was paid on February 1, 2013 to shareholders of record as of January 6, 2013. The Board of Directors also declared a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share on our preferred stock, payable on March 1, 2013 to shareholders of
record as of February 3, 2013.   
         34   

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
  The following table summarizes the surrenders and repurchases of our equity securities during the 12 month period ended December 31,
2012:       

(a)  
    The total number of shares purchased and the total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced programs is different because shares of
common stock are withheld by us from employee restricted stock awards in order to satisfy our applicable tax withholding obligations.      

(b)  
    In May 2010, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $3.0 billion of common stock. In June 2012, the Board of Directors increased
its authorization for the repurchase of common stock by an additional $3.0 billion. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.      
         35   

Item 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.          Five Year
Financial Summary        

(a)  
    For a discussion of items that affected the comparability of results for the years 2012, 2011 and 2010, see  Item 7. Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measures.       

(b)  
    Marketable securities include current and non-current assets.      

(c)  
    Also includes the current portion of long-term debt.      
         36   

Item 7.        MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS        EXECUTIVE SUMMARY    
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, the Company, we, our or us) is a global
biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. We license, manufacture, market, distribute and sell pharmaceutical products on a global basis.
     The following key events and transactions occurred during 2012 as discussed in further detail in the Strategy, Product and
Pipeline Developments and Results of Operations sections of Management s Discussion and Analysis:       

Our net sales and earnings declined as a result of the loss of exclusivity of  Plavix * (clopidogrel bisulfate) and  Avapro* / Avalide*
 (irbesartan/irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide).          

We received significant regulatory approvals pertaining to  Eliquis  (apixaban) for stroke prevention in patients with nonvalvular atrial
fibrillation (NVAF),  Forxiga  (dapagliflozin) and the  Orencia  (abatacept) subcutaneous formulation.          

We acquired Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc (Amylin) and expanded our diabetes alliance arrangement with AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca) to include
Amylin-related products.          

We discontinued the development of BMS-986094 (formerly INX-189), a compound which we acquired as part of our acquisition of Inhibitex, Inc.
(Inhibitex) to treat hepatitis C virus infection, in the interest of patient safety, which resulted in a $1.8 billion pre-tax impairment charge.          Highlights       The following table is a summary of our financial highlights:   
   
    Our non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings and related EPS information, are adjusted to
exclude specified items which represent certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other items impacting the comparability of financial results. For a detailed listing of all specified items and further information and reconciliations of non-GAAP
financial measures see   Non-GAAP Financial Measures  below.       Business Environment    
  The pharmaceutical/biotechnology industry is highly competitive and subject to numerous government regulations. Many competitive factors
may significantly affect sales of our products, including product efficacy, safety, price, demand, competition and cost-effectiveness; marketing effectiveness; market access; product labeling; quality control and quality assurance of our
manufacturing operations; and research and development of new products. To successfully compete in the healthcare industry, we must demonstrate that our products offer medical benefits and cost advantages. Our new product introductions often compete
with other products already on the market in the same therapeutic category, in addition to potential competition of new products that competitors may introduce in the future. We manufacture branded products, which are priced higher than generic
products. Generic competition is one of our leading challenges.   
         37   

In the pharmaceutical/biotechnology industry, the majority of an innovative product s
commercial value is usually realized during its market exclusivity period. Afterwards, it is no longer protected by a patent and is subject to new competing products in the form of generic brands. Upon exclusivity loss, we can experience a
significant reduction of that product s sales in a short period of time. Competitors seeking approval of biological products under a full Biologics License Application (BLA) must file their own safety and efficacy data and address the
challenges of biologics manufacturing, involving more complex processes and costs than those of other pharmaceutical operations. Under the U.S. healthcare legislation enacted in 2010, there is an abbreviated path for regulatory approval of generic
versions of biological products. This path for approval of biosimilar products under the U.S. healthcare legislation significantly affects the regulatory data exclusivity for biological products. The legislation provides a regulatory mechanism
allowing for regulatory approval of biologic drugs similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than required by a full BLA. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the impact of the U.S.
biosimilar legislation on the Company.      Globally, the healthcare industry is subject to various government-imposed regulations
authorizing prices or price controls that will continue to impact our net sales. In March 2010, the U.S. government enacted healthcare reform legislation, signing into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (HR 3590) and a reconciliation
bill containing a package of changes to the healthcare bill. We will continue to experience additional financial costs and certain other changes to our business as healthcare law provisions become effective.   
  The aggregate financial impact of U.S. healthcare reform over the next few years depends on a number of factors, including but not
limited to pending implementation guidance, potential changes in sales volume eligible for the new rebates, discounts or fees, and the impact of cost sharing arrangements with certain alliance partners. Our future net sales beginning in 2014 could
potentially be positively impacted from the expected increase in the number of people with healthcare coverage from the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.      In many markets outside the U.S., we operate in environments of government-mandated, cost-containment programs, or under other regulatory bodies or groups exerting downward pressure on pricing. For
example, pricing freedom is limited in the UK by the operation of a profit control plan and in Germany by the operation of a reference price system. Many European countries have continuing fiscal challenges as healthcare payers, including government
agencies, have reduced and are expected to continue to reduce the cost of healthcare through actions that directly or indirectly impose additional price restrictions. Companies also face significant delays in market access for new products as more
than two years can elapse after drug approval before new medicines are available in some countries.      The growth of Managed
Care Organizations (MCOs) in the U.S. significantly impacted competition in the healthcare industry. MCOs seek to reduce healthcare expenditures for participants through volume purchases and long-term contractual discounts with various
pharmaceutical providers. Because of the market potential created by the large pool of participants, marketing prescription drugs to MCOs is an important part of our strategy. Companies compete for inclusion in MCO formularies and we generally are
successful in having our key products included. We believe that developments in the managed care industry, including continued consolidation, continue to have a downward pressure on prices.   
  Pharmaceutical and biotechnology production processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely by product. Shifting or adding
manufacturing capacity is usually a lengthy process requiring significant capital expenditures and regulatory approvals. Biologics manufacturing involves more complex processes than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. As biologics become
a larger percentage of our product portfolio, we will continue to maintain supply arrangements with third-party manufacturers and incur substantial investments to increase our internal capacity to produce biologics on a commercial scale. The FDA
approved our large scale multi-product bulk biologics manufacturing facility in Devens, Massachusetts in May 2012.      We
maintain a competitive position in the market and strive to uphold this position, depending on our success in discovering, developing and delivering innovative, cost-effective products to help patients prevail over serious diseases.   
  We are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this time
to reasonably assess the final outcomes of these investigations or litigations. For additional discussion of legal matters, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.    
   Strategy       Over the past
few years, we transformed our Company into a focused biopharmaceutical company. We continue to focus on sustaining our business and building a foundation for the future by growing our newer key marketed products, advancing our pipeline portfolio and
managing our costs. We expect that our portfolio will become increasingly diversified across products and geographies over the next few years.   
         38   

We experienced substantial exclusivity losses this year for  Plavix*  and
 Avapro* / Avalide* , which together had more than $8 billion of net sales in 2011. We had been preparing for this for a number of years. As expected, we experienced a rapid, precipitous, and material decline in  Plavix*  and
 Avapro* / Avalide*  net sales and a reduction in net income and operating cash flow. Such events are the norm in the industry when companies experience the loss of exclusivity of a significant product. We will also face additional
exclusivity losses in the coming years. We also face significant challenges with an increasingly complex global and regulatory environment and global economic uncertainty, particularly in the European Union (EU). We believe our strategy to grow our
newer marketed products and our robust research and development (R D) pipeline, particularly within the therapeutic areas of immuno-oncology, cardiovascular/metabolic disease and virology, position us well for the future.   
  We continue to expand our biologics capabilities. We still rely significantly on small molecules as our strongest, most reliable starting
point for discovering potential new medicines, but large molecules or biologics, derived from recombinant DNA technologies are becoming increasingly important. Currently, more than 40% of our pipeline compounds are biologics, as are four of our key
marketed products, including  Yervoy  (ipilimumab).      We also continue to support our pipeline with our licensing and
acquisitions strategy, referred to as our  string of pearls.  During the third quarter of 2012, we acquired Amylin, a biopharmaceutical company dedicated to the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative medicines for
patients with diabetes and other metabolic diseases. Following the completion of our acquisition of Amylin, we entered into a collaboration with AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AstraZeneca, which builds upon our existing
alliance, further expanding our collaboration strategy. We are currently integrating the Amylin business into our development, manufacturing and commercial operations. We are also seeking to build relationships with academic organizations that have
innovative programs and capabilities that complement our own internal efforts.       Product and Pipeline Developments    
  We manage our research and development (R D) programs on a portfolio basis, investing resources in each stage of research and
development from early discovery through late-stage development. We continually evaluate our portfolio of R D assets to ensure that there is an appropriate balance of early-stage and late-stage programs to support future growth. We consider our
R D programs that have entered into Phase III development to be significant, as these programs constitute our late-stage development pipeline. These Phase III development programs include both investigational compounds in Phase III development
for initial indications and marketed products that are in Phase III development for additional indications or formulations. Spending on these programs represents approximately 30-40% of our annual R D expenses. No individual investigational
compound or marketed product represented 10% or more of our R D expenses in any of the last three years. While we do not expect all of our late-stage development programs to make it to market, our late-stage development programs are the R D
programs that could potentially have an impact on our revenue and earnings within the next few years. The following are the recent significant developments in our marketed products and our late-stage pipeline:   
   Eliquis    an oral Factor Xa inhibitor, targeted at stroke prevention in NVAF and the prevention and treatment of venous thromboembolic (VTE)
disorders.  Eliquis  is part of our strategic alliance with Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer)       

In December 2012, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved  Eliquis  to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients
with NVAF.  Eliquis  also received regulatory approval for this indication in Japan and Canada in December 2012, in the EU in November 2012, and in South Korea in January 2013.      

In December 2012, the Company announced the results of the Phase III AMPLIFY-EXT trial, which evaluated treatment with  Eliquis  compared to
placebo over a one year period for the prevention of recurrent VTE in 2,486 patients who had already completed six to 12 months of anticoagulation treatment for VTE, including deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. In the trial, extended
treatment with  Eliquis  2.5 mg and 5 mg twice daily, demonstrated superiority versus placebo in the reduction of the composite endpoint of symptomatic, recurrent VTE and death from any cause.  Eliquis  also was superior to placebo for the
predefined secondary efficacy outcome of recurrent VTE and VTE-related death. The rate of the primary safety outcome of major bleeding was comparable across treatment groups.      

In October 2012, the Company announced in a publication in  The Lancet  that the reductions in stroke or systemic embolism, major bleeding and
mortality demonstrated with  Eliquis  compared to warfarin in the ARISTOTLE trial were consistent across a wide range of stroke and bleeding risk scores in patients with NVAF.      

In March 2012, additional analyses from the ARISTOTLE and AVERROES clinical trials were presented at the American College of Cardiology s 61st
Annual Scientific Session.          Forxiga    an oral sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor
for the treatment of diabetes that is part of our alliance with AstraZeneca       

In November 2012, the EC approved  Forxiga  for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in the EU.      
         39   

In June 2012, at the
72   nd    American Diabetes Association Scientific Sessions,
the Company and AstraZeneca announced results from a Phase III clinical study that showed  Forxiga  10 mg demonstrated significant reductions in blood sugar levels (glycosylated hemoglobin levels, or HbA1c) compared with placebo at 24 weeks
when either agent was added to existing sitagliptin therapy (with or without metformin) in adult patients with type 2 diabetes. The results were maintained over a 24-week extension and similar results were observed when the data were stratified by
background therapy. The study also demonstrated significant reductions in total body weight and fasting plasma glucose levels in patients taking  Forxiga  added to sitigliptin (with or without metformin), with results maintained throughout the
duration of the study.          

In January 2012, the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter (CRL) regarding the NDA for dapagliflozin. The CRL requests additional clinical data to
allow a better assessment of the benefit-risk profile for dapagliflozin. The companies will continue to work closely with the FDA to determine the appropriate next steps for the dapagliflozin application, and are in ongoing discussions with health
authorities in other countries as part of the application procedures. The Company has met with the FDA and now has a path forward for potential approval for  Forxiga  in the U.S. The Company will provide additional data from ongoing studies to
the FDA and expects to be able to resubmit the NDA for  Forxiga  in mid-2013. At this time, the Company expects that the FDA will have a six month period in which to review the resubmission and will hold an Advisory Committee meeting.
        Hepatitis C Portfolio   (Peginterferon lambda  a novel and potential first-in-class type 3
interferon in development; Daclatasvir   a NS5A replication complex inhibitor in development; Asunaprevir   a NS3 protease inhibitor in development)       

In November 2012, the Company announced the results of the global, D-LITE Phase IIb study, in which a 24-week regimen combining the investigational
compound peginterferon lambda-1a with the investigational direct-acting antiviral (DAA) daclatasvir and ribavirin, achieved sustained virologic response 12 weeks post-treatment of treatment-na ve, genotype 1b chronic hepatitis C virus
infection patients who achieved a protocol-defined response          

In November 2012, the Company announced Phase II data demonstrating that the 12-week Triple DAA treatment regime of daclatasvir, asunaprevir, and
BMS-791325 (an NS5B non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor) achieved sustained virologic response 12 weeks post-treatment in 94% of treatment na ve, genotype 1 chronic hepatitis C virus infection patients.      

In November 2012, the Company announced Phase II data demonstrating that the dual regiment of daclatasvir and asunaprevir, without interferon or
ribavarin, achieved high rates of sustained virologic response 12 weeks post-treatment in patients with genotype 1b hepatitis C virus infections who were prior null responders to alfa interferon and ribavarin.      
  Elotuzumab   an anti-CS1 antibody under investigation for the treatment of multiple myeloma   

In December 2012, the Company announced the results of a small, randomized Phase II study in patients with previously treated myeloma. Two doses
were tested, 10mg/kg and 20 mg/kg in combination with lenalidomide and low-dose dexamethasone. In the 10 mg/kg arm, median progression-free survival (PFS), or the time without disease progression or death, was not reached after 20.8 months of follow
up (N=36) and the objective response rate (ORR) was 92%. Of patients who received elotuzumab at a dose of 20 mg/kg, median PFS was 18.6 months (N=37) and ORR was 76%.      
  Necitumumab   a novel targeted cancer therapy for non-small cell lung cancer   

In November 2012, we provided notice of the termination of our global codevelopment and cocommercialization arrangement for necitumumab (IMC-11F8),
a fully human monoclonal antibody being investigated as an anticancer treatment, which was discovered by ImClone and was part of the alliance between the Company and Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly), with all rights returning to Lilly. The termination
is effective May 2014, though we and Lilly may terminate earlier.          Sustiva  (efavirenz)   a
non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV.       

In February 2013, the Company announced that the FDA has granted an additional six-month period of exclusivity to market  Sustiva . Exclusivity
for  Sustiva  in the U.S. is now scheduled to expire in March 2015.          Baraclude  (entecavir)
  an oral antiviral agent for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B       

In February 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware invalidated the composition of matter patent covering  Baraclude , which
was scheduled to expire in 2015.          

In October 2012, a labeling update for  Baraclude  was approved by the FDA to include data on African Americans and liver transplant recipients
with chronic hepatitis B infection.      
         40   

Erbitux*  (cetuximab)   a monoclonal antibody designed to exclusively target and
block the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor, which is expressed on the surface of certain cancer cells in multiple tumor types as well as normal cells and is currently indicated for use against colorectal cancer and head and neck cancer.
 Erbitux*  is part of our alliance with Lilly.       

In July 2012, the FDA granted full approval of  Erbitux*  in combination with the chemotherapy regimen folfiri (irinotecan, 5-fluorouracil,
leucovorin) for the first-line treatment of patients with KRAS mutation-negative epidermal growth factor receptor-expressing metastatic colorectal cancer as determined by FDA-approved tests for the use.      

In April 2012, the FDA issued a CRL regarding the supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) in first-line non-small cell lung cancer which
stated that, based on the current data package, the first-line indication for  Erbitux*  in combination with vinorelbine and cisplatin is not approvable. Lilly and the Company do not plan to resubmit the filing.      
   Yervoy  (ipilimumab)   a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with unresectable (inoperable) or metastatic
melanoma       

In November 2012, the National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) recommended  Yervoy , which is approved in the EU for the
treatment for previously, treated metastatic (advanced) melanoma, within the Final Appraisal Determination. This important recommendation will enable eligible patients in England and Wales to routinely access treatment with  Yervoy  through the
National Health Services.          

In September 2012, the Company announced at the European Society for Medical Oncology 2012 Congress long-term follow-up data of the 024 study which
evaluated newly-diagnosed patients treated with  Yervoy  10mg/kg in combination with dacarbazine versus dacarbazine alone and five-year follow-up data from the rollover 025 study which evaluated patients with  Yervoy  0.3 mg/kg or 10
mg/kg. The survival rates observed in study 024 at years three and four were not only stable but higher in patients treated with  Yervoy  plus dacarbazine versus patients who received dacarbazine alone. The estimated survival rates in the 025
study remained unchanged or relatively stable at five years compared to four years in newly-diagnosed patients and previously-diagnosed patients.          Orencia    a fusion protein indicated for rheumatoid arthritis (RA)       

In October 2012, the EC granted marketing authorization for a subcutaneous formulation of  Orencia  in combination with methotrexate for the
treatment of moderate to severe active RA in adults.          

In June 2012, at the European League Against Rheumatism Annual European Congress of Rheumatology, the Company announced that AMPLE, a head-to-head
trial of 646 patients comparing the subcutaneous formulation of  Orencia  vs.  Humira*  (adalimumab), each on a background of methotrexate (MTX), in biologic na ve patients with moderate to severe RA met its primary endpoint (as
measured by non-inferiority) demonstrating that  Orencia  plus MTX achieved comparable rates of efficacy for the American College of Rheumatology criteria of 20 percent (ACR 20) response at one year of 64.8% vs. 63.4%  Humira*  plus MTX.

In May 2012, the Company announced that the FDA had approved the Company s biologics manufacturing facility in Devens, Massachusetts for
commercial production of  Orencia .          Nulojix  (belatacept)   a fusion protein with novel
immunosuppressive activity for the prevention of kidney transplant rejection       

In June 2012, at the 2012 American Transplant Congress, the Company announced new four-year results from the long-term extensions (LTE) of the
BENEFIT and BENEFIT-EXT clinical trials of  Nulojix , the first T-cell costimulation blocker indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in adult Epstein-Barr Virus seropositive patients receiving a kidney transplant, in combination with
basiliximab induction, mycophenolate mofetil, and corticosteroids. Results showed that the safety profile of  Nulojix  through year four was consistent compared with results at year three with no new safety signals being identified, and that
the renal function benefit versus cyclosporine was maintained through four years in patients enrolled in the LTE from both the BENEFIT and BENEFIT-EXT trials.      
   Onglyza/Kombiglyze  (saxagliptin/once daily combination of saxagliptin and metformin hydrochloride extended-release)   a
treatment for type 2 diabetes that is part of our strategic alliance with AstraZeneca       

In July 2012, the Company and AstraZeneca announced at the 17   th    World Congress on Heart Disease the results of analyses showing that Onglyza 5mg demonstrated improvements across key
measures of blood sugar control (glycosylated hemoglobin levels, or HbA1c; fasting plasma glucose, or FPG and post-prandial glucose, or PPG) compared to placebo in adult patients with type 2 diabetes at high risk for cardiovascular disease.
        In addition, in August 2012, the Company discontinued development of BMS-986094. This decision was made in
the interest of patient safety. See  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 13. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  for further information.   
         41   

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS         Net Sales        The composition of the changes in net sales was as follows:   

(a)  
    Includes Puerto Rico.      

(b)  
    Includes Russia and Turkey.      

(c)  
    Includes Japan, China, Canada, Australia and Brazil, among other countries.      

(d)  
    Includes royalty-related revenues and sales attributed to supply agreements.      
    The change in U.S. net sales in 2012 attributed to volume reflects the recent exclusivity losses of  Plavix*  and  Avapro* / Avalide* , partially offset by increased demand for most key
products and the addition of  Byetta* ,  Bydureon* , and  Symlin*  following the completion of our acquisition of Amylin ($262 million). The change in U.S. net sales in 2011 attributed to volume reflects the launch of
 Yervoy  and increased demand for several key products partially offset by decreased prescription demand for  Avapro* / Avalide*  and  Plavix* . The change in U.S. net sales attributed to price in both periods was a result of
higher average net selling prices for  Plavix*  and  Abilify*  partially offset by the reduction in our contractual share of  Abilify*  net sales from 58% to 53.5% in 2011 and a further reduction to 51.5% in 2012, and higher rebates
and discounts resulting from U.S. healthcare reform legislation in 2011. See   Key Products  for further discussion of sales by key product.      Net sales in Europe decreased in 2012 primarily due to unfavorable foreign exchange and lower sales of certain mature brands from divestitures and generic competition as well as generic competition for
 Plavix*  and  Avapro* / Avalide*  partially offset by sales growth of most key products. Net sales in Europe increased in 2011 as favorable foreign exchange and sales growth of most key products more than offset the previously
mentioned lower sales of certain mature brands and generic competition for  Plavix*  and  Avapro* / Avalide* . Net sales in both periods were negatively impacted by continuing fiscal challenges in many European countries as healthcare
payers, including government agencies, have reduced and are expected to continue to reduce the cost of healthcare through actions that directly or indirectly impose additional price reductions. These measures include, but are not limited to,
mandatory discounts, rebates, other price reductions and other restrictive measures.      Net sales in the Rest of the World
decreased in 2012 as growth in certain key products in Japan, China, and South Korea was more than offset by generic competition for  Plavix*  and  Avapro* / Avalide*,  the timing of government purchases in certain countries and lower
sales of mature brands from generic competition and divestitures. Net sales in the Rest of the World increased in 2011 primarily due to growth in certain key products in Japan, China and South Korea and favorable foreign exchange, which were
partially offset by generic competition for  Avapro* / Avalide*  and lower sales of mature brands from generic competition and divestitures.      Other net sales increased in 2012 because of enhanced royalty-related revenues and higher sales attributed to active pharmaceutical ingredients supply agreements resulting from recent divestitures of
manufacturing facilities and restructured alliance agreements. Other net sales are expected to continue to increase in 2013 as a result of higher royalties and alliance revenue attributed to the restructured Sanofi agreement and new
mature/over-the-counter brands collaborative agreements.      No single country outside the U.S. contributed more than 10% of our
total net sales in 2012, 2011 or 2010.      In general, our business is not seasonal. For information on U.S. pharmaceutical
prescriber demand, reference is made to the table within   Estimated End-User Demand  below, which sets forth a comparison of changes in net sales to the estimated total prescription growth (for both retail and mail order customers)
for certain of our key products. U.S. and non-U.S. net sales are categorized based upon the location of the customer.   
         42   

Revenue is reduced for and presented net of gross-to-net sales adjustments that are further
described in   Critical Accounting Policies  below.      The reconciliation of gross sales to net sales by each
significant category of gross-to-net sales adjustments was as follows:       
    The activities and ending balances of each significant category of gross-to-net sales reserve adjustments
were as follows:       
    Gross-to-net sales adjustment rates are primarily a function of changes in sales mix and contractual and
legislative discounts and rebates. Gross-to-net sales adjustments decreased in 2012 and increased in 2011 due to:       

All gross-to-net adjustment categories other than sales returns and other adjustments decreased in 2012 as a result of lower  Plavix*  sales
following its loss of exclusivity.          

Managed healthcare rebates and other contract discounts also decreased in 2012 due to a $67 million reduction in the estimated amount of Medicare
Part D coverage gap discounts attributable to prior period rebates after receiving actual invoices and the nonrenewal of  Plavix*  contract discounts in the Medicare Part D program as of January 1, 2012. These rebates and discounts
increased in 2011 due to the 50% discount for patients within the Medicare Part D coverage gap.          

Medicaid rebates also decreased in 2012 due to a $37 million reduction in the estimated amount of managed Medicaid rebates attributable to prior
periods after receiving actual invoices. In 2011, Medicaid rebates increased due to the full year impact of the expansion of rebates for drugs used in risk-based Medicaid managed care plans, higher average net selling prices for  Plavix*  and
higher Medicaid channel sales.          

The provision for sales returns increased as a result of the loss of exclusivity in the U.S. of  Plavix*  in May 2012 and
 Avapro* / Avalide*  in March 2012. The U.S. sales return reserves for these products at December 31, 2012 were $173 million and determined after considering several factors including estimated inventory levels in the distribution
channels. In accordance with Company policy, these products are eligible to be returned between six months prior to and 12 months after product expiration. Additional adjustments to these reserves might be required in the future for revised
estimates to various assumptions including actual returns which are generally not expected to occur until 2014. In 2011, sales returns included a $29 million reduction of a $44 million U.S. return reserve established in 2010 in connection with a
recall of certain lots of  Avalide*  due to lower returns than expected.          

Other adjustments increased in 2012 as a result of co-pay and coupon programs.      

Although not presented as a gross-to-net adjustment in the above tables, our contractual share of  Abilify*  and  Atripla*  gross-to-net
sales adjustments were approximately $1.5 billion in 2012, $1.3 billion in 2011 and $1.0 billion in 2010. These increases were primarily attributed to additional rebates and discounts required under U.S. healthcare reform.
     
         43   

Key Products       Net sales of key products represented 84% of total net sales in 2012, 86% in 2011 and 84% in 2010. The following table presents U.S. and international net sales by key product, the percentage change from
the prior period and the foreign exchange impact when compared to the prior period. Commentary detailing the reasons for significant variances for key products is provided below:   

44   

Plavix *   a platelet aggregation inhibitor that is part of our alliance with Sanofi   

International net sales continue to be negatively impacted by generic clopidogrel products in the EU, Canada, and Australia.
         Avapro*/Avalide*  (known in the EU as  Aprovel*/Karvea* )
  an angiotensin II receptor blocker for the treatment of hypertension and diabetic nephropathy that is also part of the Sanofi alliance       

U.S. net sales decreased in 2012 due to the loss of exclusivity in March 2012 and decreased in 2011 due to market share losses subsequent to the
 Avalide*  supply shortage in the first quarter of 2011 associated with previously reported recalls. The decrease in U.S. net sales in 2011 was partially offset by higher average net selling prices and estimated returns. Total estimated U.S.
prescription demand decreased 71% in 2012 and 39% in 2011.          

International net sales decreased in both periods due to lower demand including generic competition in certain EU markets and Canada.
         Eliquis    an oral Factor Xa inhibitor, targeted at stroke
prevention in atrial fibrillation and the prevention and treatment of VTE disorders.  Eliquis  is part of our strategic alliance with Pfizer.       

Eliquis was approved in the U.S. for prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with NVAF in December 2012.

Eliquis was approved in the EU for VTE prevention in May 2011 and was launched in a limited number of EU countries beginning in May 2011.
 Eliquis  was also approved in the EU for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with NVAF in November 2012.  Eliquis  was approved in December 2012 by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare for the
prevention of ischemic stroke and systemic embolism in patients with NVAF.      
   Abilify *   an antipsychotic agent for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder
and major depressive disorder and is part of our strategic alliance with Otsuka       

U.S. net sales increased in 2012 due to higher average net selling prices and a $62 million reduction in BMS s share in the estimated amount of
customer rebates and discounts attributable to 2011 based on actual invoices received that were partially offset by fluctuations in retail buying patterns. U.S. net sales increased in 2011 due to higher overall demand and higher average net selling
prices. U.S. net sales in both periods were negatively impacted by the reduction in our contractual share of net sales from 58.0% in 2010 to 53.5% in 2011 to 51.5% in 2012 and are expected to continue to be negatively impacted in 2013 as a result of
a further reduction in BMS s contractual share of  Abilify*  net sales (estimated at approximately 35%). Estimated total U.S. prescription demand increased 1% in 2012 and 5% in 2011.      

International net sales increased in both periods primarily due to higher demand. International net sales were impacted by unfavorable foreign
exchange in 2012 and favorable foreign exchange in 2011.          Reyataz 
  a protease inhibitor for the treatment of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)       
 
         45   

International net sales decreased in 2012 due to unfavorable foreign exchange, the timing of government purchases in certain countries and lower
demand resulting from competing products. International net sales increased in 2011 due to higher demand.          Sustiva Franchise    a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, which includes  Sustiva , an antiretroviral drug, and bulk efavirenz, which is also included
in the combination therapy,  Atripla*  (efavirenz 600 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), a product sold through our joint venture with Gilead   

U.S. net sales increased in both periods primarily due to higher demand and higher average net selling prices. Estimated total U.S. prescription
demand decreased 1% in 2012 and increased 7% in 2011.          

International net sales decreased in 2012 due to unfavorable foreign exchange. International net sales in 2011 increased primarily due to higher
demand.          Baraclude    an oral antiviral agent for the treatment
of chronic hepatitis B       

Net sales in both periods increased primarily due to higher demand.      

We may experience a rapid and significant decline in U.S. net sales beginning in 2013 due to possible generic competition following a federal
court s decision in February 2013 invalidating the composition of matter patent.          Erbitux *   a monoclonal antibody designed to exclusively target and block the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor, which is expressed on the surface of certain cancer cells in multiple tumor
types as well as normal cells and is currently indicated for use against colorectal cancer and head and neck cancer.  Erbitux * is part of our strategic alliance with Lilly.   

Sold by us almost exclusively in the U.S., net sales remained relatively flat in 2012 and increased in 2011 primarily due to higher demand.
         Sprycel    an oral inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinases
indicated for the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including  Gleevec * (imatinib meslylate) and first-line treatment of
adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia in chronic phase.  Sprycel  is part of our strategic alliance with Otsuka.       

U.S. net sales in both periods increased primarily due to higher demand and higher average net selling prices. Estimated total U.S. prescription
demand increased 29% in 2012 and 30% in 2011.          

International net sales in both periods increased primarily due to higher demand. International net sales were impacted by unfavorable foreign
exchange in 2012 and favorable foreign exchange in 2011.          

Demand in 2011 was positively impacted by the approval of  Sprycel  for first-line treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed
Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia in chronic phase in the U.S. and the EU in the fourth quarter of 2010.      
   Yervoy    a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with unresectable (inoperable)
or metastatic melanoma       

Yervoy  net sales increased from higher demand since its launch in the U.S. in the second quarter of 2011 and continued launches in a number
of international countries since the second quarter of 2011.      
   Orencia    a fusion protein indicated for adult patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid
arthritis who have had an inadequate response to one or more currently available treatments, such as methotrexate or anti-tumor necrosis factor therapy       

U.S. net sales increased in both periods primarily due to higher demand, including the launch of the  Orencia  subcutaneous formulation (SC) in
the fourth quarter of 2011, and higher average net selling prices.          

International net sales increased in both periods primarily due to higher demand, including the launch of  Orencia SC  in certain European
markets beginning in the second quarter of 2012. International net sales were impacted by unfavorable foreign exchange in 2012 and favorable foreign exchange in 2011.      
   Nulojix    a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity targeted at prevention of kidney transplant rejection

Nulojix  was approved and launched in the U.S. and EU during 2011.      
   Onglyza/Kombiglyze  (known in the EU as  Onglyza/Komboglyze )   a once-daily oral tablet
for the treatment of type 2 diabetes that is part of our strategic alliance with AstraZeneca       

U.S. net sales of  Onglyza/Kombiglyze  increased in both periods primarily due to higher overall demand and higher average net selling prices
in 2012.  Kombiglyze  was launched in the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2010.          

International net sales increased in both periods primarily due to higher demand, which was partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange in
2012.      
         46   

Byetta *   a twice daily glucagon-like peptide-1
(GLP-1) receptor agonist for the treatment of type 2 diabetes       

Byetta * net sales are included in our results following the completion of our acquisition of Amylin in the third quarter of 2012.
         Bydureon *   a once-weekly GLP-1 receptor agonist for the
treatment of type 2 diabetes       

Bydureon * was launched by Amylin in the U.S. in the first quarter of 2012 and in the EU in the second quarter of 2012. Net sales are included
in our results following the completion of our acquisition of Amylin in the third quarter of 2012.         Mature Products and All Other   includes all other products, including those which have lost exclusivity in major markets, over-the-counter brands and royalty-related revenue   

U.S. net sales continued to decrease in 2012 from generic erosion of certain products which was partially offset by sales of  Symlin *
following the completion of our Amylin acquisition in the third quarter of 2012.          

International net sales decreased in both periods due to the continued generic erosion of certain brands and unfavorable foreign exchange in 2012.
        The estimated U.S. prescription change data provided throughout this report includes information only from
the retail and mail order channels and does not reflect product demand within other channels such as hospitals, home health care, clinics, federal facilities including Veterans Administration hospitals, and long-term care, among others. The data is
provided by Wolters Kluwer Health (WK), except for  Sprycel , and is based on the Source Prescription Audit.  Sprycel  demand is based upon information from the Next-Generation Prescription Service version 2.0 of the National Prescription
Audit provided by the IMS Health (IMS). The data is a product of each respective service providers  own recordkeeping and projection processes and therefore subject to the inherent limitations of estimates based on sampling and may include a
margin of error.      We continuously seek to improve the quality of our estimates of prescription change amounts and ultimate
patient/consumer demand by reviewing the calculation methodologies employed and analyzing internal and third-party data. We expect to continue to review and refine our methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and will monitor
the quality of our own and third parties  data used in such calculations.      We calculated the estimated total U.S.
prescription change on a weighted-average basis to reflect the fact that mail order prescriptions include a greater volume of product supplied, compared to retail prescriptions. Mail order prescriptions typically reflect a 90-day prescription
whereas retail prescriptions typically reflect a 30-day prescription. The calculation is derived by multiplying mail order prescription data by a factor that approximates three and adding to this the retail prescriptions. We believe that a
calculation of estimated total U.S. prescription change based on this weighted-average approach provides a superior estimate of total prescription demand in retail and mail order channels. We use this methodology for our internal demand reporting.
  
         47   

Estimated End-User Demand       The following tables set forth for each of our key products sold in the U.S. for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010: (i) change in reported U.S. net sales for each year;
(ii) estimated total U.S. prescription change for the retail and mail order channels calculated by us based on third-party data on a weighted-average basis, and (iii) months of inventory on hand in the wholesale distribution channel.

(a)  
    The  Sustiva  Franchise includes sales of  Sustiva , as well as revenue of bulk efavirenz included in the combination therapy
 Atripla *. The months on hand relates only to  Sustiva .      

(b)  
     Erbitux *, Yervoy and  Nulojix  are parenterally administered products and do not have prescription-level data as physicians do not write
prescriptions for these products.      

(c)  
     Orencia  intravenous formulation is a parenterally administered product and does not have prescription-level data as physicians do not write
prescriptions for this product. The Orencia subcutaneous formulation ( Orencia SC ) is not parenterally administered and was launched in the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2011.  Orencia SC  sales were $201 million in 2012 and $15 million
in 2011.      

(d)  
     Yervoy  and  Nulojix  were launched in the U.S. in the second quarter of 2011.      

(e)  
     Byetta * and  Bydureon * net sales are included in our results following the completion of our acquisition of Amylin in the third quarter
of 2012.      
    Pursuant to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Consent Order described below under   SEC Consent Order , we monitor the level of inventory on hand in the U.S. wholesaler
distribution channel and outside of the U.S. in the direct customer distribution channel. We are obligated to disclose products with levels of inventory in excess of one month on hand or expected demand, subject to a de minimis exception. Estimated
levels of inventory in the distribution channel in excess of one month on hand for these products were not material as of the dates indicated above. Below are U.S. products that had estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel in excess
of one month on hand at December 31, 2012, and international products that had estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel in excess of one month on hand at September 30, 2012.   
   Plavix * had 1.3 months of inventory on hand in the U.S. compared to 0.5 months of inventory on hand at
December 31, 2011 due to the loss of exclusivity in May 2012. We expect a gradual decrease in inventory on hand of  Plavix*  to occur over the next few years as product in the wholesale distribution channel continues to be worked down or
returned. Levels of inventory on hand in the wholesale and retail distribution channels were considered in assessing the sales return reserves established as of December 31, 2012.   
   Avapro*/Avalide*  had 1.9 months of inventory on hand in the U.S. compared to 0.6 of inventory on hand at
December 31, 2011 due to the loss of exclusivity in March 2012 and a one-time increase of $3 million of inventory in the wholesale and retail distribution channels corresponding with the transition of  Avapro*/Avalide*  manufacturing to
Sanofi pursuant to the restructured agreement. Levels of inventory on hand in the wholesale and retail distribution channels were considered in assessing the sales return reserves established as of December 31, 2012.   
   Dafalgan , an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had 1.1 months of inventory on hand at direct customers
compared to 1.0 months of inventory on hand at December 31, 2011. The level of inventory on hand was primarily due to ordering patterns of pharmacists in France.   
         48   

Fervex , a cold and flu product, had 2.9 months of inventory on hand
internationally at direct customers compared to 5.3 months of inventory on hand at December 31, 2011. The level of inventory on hand decreased following the peak of flu season, with the remaining inventory on hand primarily attributable to
ordering patterns of pharmacists in France.       Luftal , an antacid product, had 1.5 months of inventory on
hand internationally at direct customers compared to 1.9 months of inventory on hand at December 31, 2011. The level of inventory on hand was primarily due to government purchasing patterns in Brazil.   
  In the U.S., for all products sold exclusively through wholesalers or through distributors, we generally determined our months on hand
estimates using inventory levels of product on hand and the amount of out-movement provided by our three largest wholesalers, which account for approximately 90% of total gross sales of U.S. products, and provided by our distributors. Factors that
may influence our estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by
wholesalers. In addition, these estimates are calculated using third-party data, which may be impacted by their recordkeeping processes.      For our businesses outside of the U.S., we have significantly more direct customers. Limited information on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the
reliability of third-party demand information, where available, varies widely. In cases where direct customer product level inventory, ultimate patient/consumer demand or out-movement data does not exist or is otherwise not available, we have
developed a variety of other methodologies to estimate such data, including using such factors as historical sales made to direct customers and third-party market research data related to prescription trends and end-user demand. Accordingly, we rely
on a variety of methods to estimate direct customer product level inventory and to calculate months on hand. Factors that may affect our estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price
increases, new product launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations. As such, all of the information required to estimate
months on hand in the direct customer distribution channel for non-U.S. business for the year ended December 31, 2012 is not available prior to the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K. We will disclose any product with levels of inventory
in excess of one month on hand or expected demand, subject to a de minimis exception, in the next quarterly report on Form 10-Q.       Expenses

Cost of
products sold        Cost of products sold consists of material costs, internal labor and overhead from our owned
manufacturing sites, third-party processing costs, other supply chain costs and the settlement of foreign currency forward contracts that are used to hedge forecasted intercompany inventory purchase transactions. Essentially all of these costs are
managed by our global manufacturing and supply organization. Cost of products also includes royalties and profit sharing attributed to licensed products and alliances, amortization of acquired developed technology costs from business combinations
and milestone payments that occur on or after regulatory approval.      Cost of products sold can vary between periods as a result
of product mix (particularly resulting from royalties and profit sharing expenses in connection with our alliances), price, inflation and costs attributed to the rationalization of manufacturing sites resulting in accelerated depreciation,
impairment charges and other stranded costs. In addition, changes in foreign currency may also provide volatility given a high percentage of total costs are denominated in foreign currencies. Cost of products sold as a percentage of net sales were
26.2% in 2012, 26.4% in 2011, and 27.1% in 2010.      
  The decrease in cost of products sold in 2012 was primarily attributed to lower sales volume following the loss of exclusivity of
 Plavix*  and  Avapro* / Avalide*  which resulted in lower royalties in connection with our Sanofi alliance and favorable foreign exchange partially offset by impairment charges discussed below and higher amortization costs resulting
from the Amylin acquisition (net of the amortization of the Amylin collaboration proceeds).      Impairment charges of $147
million were recognized in 2012, of which $120 million was related to a partial write-down to fair value of developed technology costs related to a non-key product ( Recothrom ) acquired in the acquisition of ZymoGenetics, Inc. (ZymoGenetics).
The developed technology impairment charge resulted from continued competitive pricing pressures and a reduction   
         49   

in the undiscounted projected cash flows to an amount less than the carrying value of the
intangible asset. The impairment charge was calculated as the difference between the fair value of the asset based on the discounted value of the estimated future cash flows and the carrying value of the intangible asset. The remaining $27 million
impairment charge related to the abandonment of a manufacturing facility resulting from the outsourcing of a manufacturing process.      The increase in 2011 was primarily attributable to higher sales volume resulting in additional royalties, collaboration fees, and profit sharing expense, and unfavorable foreign exchange.   
    Marketing, selling and administrative        Marketing, selling and administrative expenses consist of salary and benefit costs, third-party professional and marketing fees, outsourcing fees, shipping and handling costs and other expenses that are
not attributed to product manufacturing costs or research and development expenses. These expenses are managed through regional commercialization organizations or global corporate organizations such as finance, law, information technology and human
resources.       

Marketing, selling and administrative expenses increased slightly in 2012 primarily as a result of the Amylin acquisition ($125 million, including
$67 million related to the accelerated vesting of stock options and restricted stock units), partially offset by a reduction in sales-related activities for  Plavix*  and  Avapro* / Avalide*.  Marketing, selling and administrative
expenses were also impacted by favorable foreign exchange.          

The increase in 2011 was attributed to the annual pharmaceutical company fee, unfavorable foreign exchange and higher marketing costs to support new
launches and key products and to a lesser extent, higher bad debt expense in the EU, charitable funding and information technology expenses.          

The annual pharmaceutical company fee was $246 million in 2012 and $220 million in 2011. For further information regarding the annual pharmaceutical
company fee, refer to  Item 1. Business Government Regulation and Price Constraints.            Advertising and
product promotion        Advertising and product promotion expenses consist of related media, sample and direct to consumer programs.

The decrease in 2012 was primarily attributed to lower spending on the promotion of  Plavix* ,  Avapro* / Avalide* ,  Abilify* ,
and certain mature brands in the U.S. to coincide with their product life cycle.           Research and development
       Research and development expenses consist of salary and benefit costs, third-party grants and fees paid to clinical
research organizations, supplies and facility costs. Total research and development expenses include the costs of discovery research, preclinical development, early- and late-clinical development and drug formulation, as well as clinical trials and
medical support of marketed products, proportionate allocations of enterprise-wide costs, facilities, information technology, and employee stock compensation costs, and other appropriate costs. These expenses also include third-party licensing fees
that are typically paid upfront as well as when regulatory or other contractual milestones are met. Certain expenses are shared with alliance partners based upon contractual agreements.   
  Most expenses are managed by our global research and development organization of which, approximately $1.9 billion of the total spend was
attributed to development activities with the remainder attributed to preclinical and research activities. These expenses can vary between periods for a number of reasons, including the timing of upfront, milestone and other licensing payments.

Research and development expenses increased in 2012 primarily from $60 million of expenses related to the Amylin acquisition (including $27 million
related to the accelerated vesting of Amylin stock options and restricted stock units), partially offset by favorable foreign exchange and the net impact of upfront, milestone, and other licensing payments and IPRD impairment charges. Refer to
 Specified Items  included in   Non-GAAP Financial Measures  for amounts attributed to each period. IPRD impairment charges relate to projects previously acquired in the Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) acquisition and Inhibitex
acquisition (including $45 million in 2012 related to FV-100, a nucleoside inhibitor for the reduction of shingles-associated pain) resulting from unfavorable clinical trial results and decisions to cease further development.

The increase in 2011 was attributed to higher upfront, milestone and other licensing payments, unfavorable foreign exchange, and additional
development costs resulting from the acquisition of ZymoGenetics. Upfront, milestone and other licensing payments were $207 million in 2011, including an $88 million payment associated with an amendment of an intellectual property license agreement
for  Yervoy  prior to its FDA approval and payments for exclusive licenses to develop and commercialize certain programs and compounds.         
    Impairment charge for BMS-986094 intangible asset        A $1.8 billion impairment charge was recognized when the development of BMS-986094 (formerly INX-189), a compound which we acquired as part of our acquisition of Inhibitex to treat hepatitis C virus
infection, was discontinued in the interest of patient safety. See  Item 1. Financial Statements  Note 13. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  for further information.   
         50   

Other (income)/expense        Other (income)/expense include:       

Interest expense increased due to the termination of interest rate swap contracts in 2011 and higher borrowings in 2012.

Investment income included a $10 million gain from the sale of auction rate securities in 2012.      

Provision for restructuring was primarily attributable to employee termination benefits for continuous improvement initiatives. Additional employee
termination costs of approximately $300 million are expected to be incurred in 2013 as a result of workforce reductions in several European countries. The majority of the costs will not be recognized until the completion of discussions with local
workers council, subject to local regulations. The expected employee reductions are primarily attributed to sales force personnel resulting from restructuring of the Sanofi and Otsuka agreements and streamlining of the operations due to challenging
market conditions in Europe.          

Litigation charges/(recoveries) in 2012 included $172 million for our share of the Apotex damages award concerning  Plavix* , partially offset
by increases in reserves for product liability, pricing, sales and promotional matters.          

Equity in net income of affiliates is primarily related to our international partnership with Sanofi which decreased in 2012 as a result of the
continued impact of generic competition on international  Plavix*  net sales, conversion of certain territories to opt-out markets and the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange.      

Impairment and loss on sale of manufacturing operations in 2010 was primarily attributed to the disposal of our manufacturing operations in Latina,
Italy.          

Out-licensed intangible asset impairment charges are related to assets acquired in the Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) and ZymoGenetics acquisitions and
resulted from unfavorable clinical trial results and/or abandonment of the programs. Similar charges of $15 million were included in research and development in 2011.      

Gain on sale of product lines, businesses and assets was primarily related to the sale of a building in Mexico in 2012 and the sale of mature brands
in 2011 and 2010.          

Other income from alliance partners includes income earned from the Sanofi partnership and amortization of certain upfront, milestone and other
licensing payments related to other alliances. The decrease in U.S.  Plavix*  net sales resulted in lower development royalties owed to Sanofi in 2012.      

A pension settlement charge was recognized in 2012 for the primary U.S. pension plan as a result of annual lump sum payments exceeding interest and
service costs during the fourth quarter. The charge included the acceleration of a portion of unrecognized actuarial losses. Similar charges might occur in the future. See  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 18. Pension, Postretirement and
Postemployment Liabilities  for further detail.          

The change in Other is primarily related to higher acquisition costs and losses on debt repurchases in 2012 and sales tax reimbursements, gains on
debt repurchases, and higher upfront, milestone and licensing receipts in 2011.             Non-GAAP Financial Measures       Our non-GAAP financial measures, including
non-GAAP earnings and related EPS information, are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items that due to their significant and/or unusual nature are evaluated on an individual basis. Similar charges or
gains for some of these items have been recognized in prior periods and it is reasonably possible that they could reoccur in future periods. Non-GAAP information is intended to portray the results of our baseline performance which include the
discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of pharmaceutical products on a global basis and to enhance an investor s overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future.
For example, non-GAAP earnings and EPS information is an indication of our baseline performance before items that are considered by us to not be reflective of our ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators we use
as a basis for evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting for future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings
or diluted EPS prepared in accordance with GAAP.   
         51   

Specified items were as follows:   

*  
    The 2012 specified tax benefit relates to a capital loss deduction. The 2011 specified tax benefit relates to releases of tax reserves that were
specified in prior periods. The 2010 specified tax charge relates to a tax charge from additional U.S. taxable income from earnings of foreign subsidiaries previously considered to be indefinitely reinvested offshore.      
  The reconciliations from GAAP to Non-GAAP were as follows:   

52   

Income Taxes       The $161 million income tax benefit in 2012 was attributable to a $392 million capital loss deduction resulting from the tax insolvency of Inhibitex. The impact of this deduction reduced the effective tax
rate by 16.7 percentage points. In addition to this impact, the effective tax rate in 2012 was substantially lower than 24.7% in 2011 and 25.7% in 2010 resulting primarily from favorable earnings mix between high and low tax jurisdictions. The
change in earnings mix was primarily attributed to lower  Plavix*  sales and a $1,830 million impairment charge for BMS-986094 intangible asset in the U.S and to a lesser extent, an internal transfer of intellectual property. The transfer of
selected intellectual property rights outside the U.S. (for existing and new products) is part of our strategy to place key assets closer to where manufacturing, distribution, and other operational decisions are made. The favorable earnings mix
between high and low tax jurisdictions is expected to continue at least through 2013 (excluding the impact of the impairment charge).      Historically, the effective income tax rate is lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35% due to our decision to indefinitely reinvest the earnings for certain of our manufacturing operations in Ireland
and Puerto Rico. We have favorable tax rates in Ireland and Puerto Rico under grants not scheduled to expire prior to 2023.   
  The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (the Act) was signed into law on January 2, 2013. The provisions of the Act included the
retroactive reinstatement of the R D tax credit and look through exception for 2012 and 2013. As a result, the 2012 R D tax credit and look through exception benefit will be recognized in the first quarter of 2013. For a more detailed
discussion of income taxes and changes in the effective tax rates, refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 7. Income Taxes.    
   Noncontrolling Interest    
  Noncontrolling interest is primarily related to our  Plavix*  and  Avapro* / Avalide*  partnerships with Sanofi for the
territory covering the Americas. See  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.  The decrease in noncontrolling interest in 2012 resulted from the exclusivity loss in the U.S. of  Avapro* / Avalide* 
in March 2012 and  Plavix*  in May 2012. The increase in noncontrolling interest in 2011 corresponds to increased net sales of  Plavix*  in the U.S. A summary of noncontrolling interest is as follows:   
   
     Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources       Our net cash/(debt) position was as follows:       
    The current net debt position and reduction in working capital during 2012 resulted primarily from net
cash used in connection with the acquisitions of Amylin and Inhibitex. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held in the U.S. were approximately $1.3 billion at December 31, 2012. Most of the remaining $5.1 billion is held primarily
in low-tax jurisdictions and is attributable to earnings that are expected to be indefinitely reinvested offshore. Cash repatriations are subject to restrictions in certain jurisdictions and may be subject to withholding and additional U.S. income
taxes. We started issuing commercial paper to meet near-term domestic liquidity requirements in preparation for the Amylin acquisition during the third quarter of 2012. The average amount of commercial paper outstanding was $224 million at a
weighted-average interest rate of 0.16% during 2012. The maximum month-end amount of commercial paper outstanding was $700 million with no outstanding borrowings at December 31, 2012. We will likely continue to issue commercial paper to meet
domestic liquidity requirements as needed.   
         53   

Our investment portfolio includes non-current marketable securities which are subject to
changes in fair value as a result of interest rate fluctuations and other market factors, which may impact our results of operations. Our investment policy places limits on these investments and the amount and time to maturity of investments with
any institution. The policy also requires that investments are only entered into with corporate and financial institutions that meet high credit quality standards. See  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 9. Financial Instruments. 
     We currently have two separate $1.5 billion five-year revolving credit facilities from a syndicate of lenders, including a
new facility entered into in July 2012. The facilities provide for customary terms and conditions with no financial covenants and are extendable on any anniversary date with the consent of the lenders. No borrowings were outstanding under either
revolving credit facility at December 31, 2012 or 2011.      In connection with the 2012 Amylin acquisition, BMS issued $2.0
billion of senior unsecured notes in a registered public offering consisting of $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 0.875% Notes due 2017, $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.000% Notes due 2022 and $500 million in aggregate
principal amount of 3.250% Notes due 2042.      BMS completed its acquisition of Amylin for an aggregate purchase price of $5.3
billion in 2012. BMS also assumed Amylin s net debt and a contractual payment obligation to Lilly, together totaling $2.0 billion (substantially all of which was repaid during 2012). The acquisition was financed through the use of existing cash
balances, the issuance of commercial paper and long-term debt borrowings described above.      Additional regulations in the U.S.
could be passed in the future which could further reduce our results of operations, operating cash flow, liquidity and financial flexibility. We also continue to monitor the potential impact of the economic conditions in certain European countries
and the related impact on prescription trends, pricing discounts, creditworthiness of our customers, and our ability to collect outstanding receivables from our direct customers. Currently, we believe these economic conditions in the EU will not
have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow or financial flexibility.      As a mechanism to limit our overall credit
exposures, and an additional source of liquidity, we sell trade receivables to third parties, principally from wholesalers in Japan and certain government-backed entities in Italy, Portugal, and Spain. Sales of trade receivables in Italy, Portugal
and Spain were $322 million in 2012, $484 million in 2011 and $476 million in 2010. Sales of receivables in Japan were $634 million in 2012, $593 million in 2011 and $456 million in 2010. Our sales agreements do not allow for recourse in the event
of uncollectibility and we do not retain interest to the underlying assets once sold.      We continue to manage our operating
cash flows with initiatives designed to improve working capital items that are most directly affected by changes in sales volume, such as receivables, inventories, and accounts payable. During 2012, the following changes in receivables, inventories
and accounts payable resulted primarily from the rapid reduction of  Plavix*  sales, the acquisition of Amylin and timing of expenditures in the ordinary course of business.   
   
     Credit Ratings       Moody s Investors Service long-term and short-term credit ratings are currently A2 and Prime-1, respectively, and their long-term credit outlook remains stable. Standard   Poor s
(S P) long-term and short-term credit ratings are currently A+ and A-1+, respectively, and their long-term credit outlook remains stable. S P upgraded our short-term credit rating from A-1 to A-1+ in May 2012. Fitch Ratings (Fitch) long-term
and short-term credit ratings are currently A and F1, respectively, and their long-term credit outlook remains negative. Fitch lowered our long-term credit rating from A+ to A in July 2012. Our credit ratings are considered investment grade. Our
long-term ratings designate that we have a low default risk but are somewhat susceptible to adverse effects of changes in circumstances and economic conditions. Our short-term ratings designate that we have the strongest capacity for timely
repayment.   
         54   

Cash Flows       The following is a discussion of cash flow activities:       
      Operating Activities        Cash flow from operating activities represents the cash receipts and cash disbursements from all of our activities other than investing activities and financing activities. Operating cash flow is derived
by adjusting net earnings for noncontrolling interest, non-cash operating items, gains and losses attributed to investing and financing activities and changes in operating assets and liabilities resulting from timing differences between the receipts
and payments of cash and when the transactions are recognized in our results of operations. As a result, changes in cash from operating activities reflect the timing of cash collections from customers and alliance partners; payments to suppliers,
alliance partners and employees; pension contributions and tax payments in the ordinary course of business.      The $2.1 billion
increase in operating cash flow in 2012 was primarily attributable to preliminary proceeds of $3.6 billion received from AstraZeneca as consideration for entering into the Amylin collaboration partially offset by lower operating cash flows
attributed to  Plavix*  and  Avapro* / Avalide*  sales reductions following the exclusivity loss of these products.   
    Investing Activities         

Net sales and maturities of marketable securities of $1.3 billion in 2012 were primarily attributed to the funding of the Amylin acquisition. Net
purchases of marketable securities of $859 million in 2011 and $2.6 billion in 2010 were primarily attributed to the timing of investments in time deposits and corporate debt securities with maturities greater than 90 days.

Other investing activities included litigation recoveries of $102 million in 2011.      
    Financing Activities         

Proceeds received from the issuance of senior unsecured notes and repayments of debt assumed in the Amylin acquisition were $2.0 billion each in
2012.          

Proceeds from stock option exercises were $463 million (including $71 million of cash retained from excess tax benefits) in 2012, $601 million
(including $47 million of cash retained from excess tax benefits) in 2011 and $252 million in 2010. The amount of proceeds vary each period based upon fluctuations in the market value of our stock relative to the exercise price of the stock options
and other factors.      
         55   

Contractual Obligations       Payments due by period for our contractual obligations at December 31, 2012 were as follows:       

(a)  
    Includes estimated future interest payments on our short-term and long-term debt securities. Also includes accrued interest payable recognized on
our consolidated balance sheets, which consists primarily of accrued interest on short-term and long-term debt as well as accrued periodic cash settlements of derivatives.      

(b)  
    Due to the uncertainty related to the timing of the reversal of uncertain tax positions, only the short-term uncertain tax benefits have been
provided in the table above. See  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 7. Income Taxes  for further detail.      

(c)  
    The table above excludes future contributions by us to our pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefit plans. Required contributions are
contingent upon numerous factors including minimum regulatory funding requirements and the funded status of each plan. Due to the uncertainty of such future obligations, they are excluded from the table. Contributions for both U.S. and international
plans are expected to be $100 million in 2013. See  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 18. Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities  for further detail.      
  In addition to the above, we are committed to $6.0 billion (in the aggregate) of potential future research and development milestone
payments to third parties as part of in-licensing and development programs. Early stage milestones, defined as milestones achieved through Phase III clinical trials, comprised $1.1 billion of the total committed amount. Late stage milestones,
defined as milestones achieved post Phase III clinical trials, comprised $4.9 billion of the total committed amount. Payments under these agreements generally are due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental and regulatory
milestones, for which the specific timing cannot be predicted. In addition to certain royalty obligations that are calculated as a percentage of net sales, some of these agreements also provide for sales-based milestones aggregating $2.1 billion
that we would be obligated to pay to alliance partners upon achievement of certain sales levels. We also have certain manufacturing, development, and commercialization obligations in connection with alliance arrangements. It is not practicable to
estimate the amount of these obligations. See  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations  for further information regarding our alliances.   
  For a discussion of contractual obligations, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 18. Pension, Postretirement and
Postemployment Liabilities,    Note 9. Financial Instruments  and   Note 20. Leases.        SEC Consent Order
      As previously disclosed, on August 4, 2004, we entered into a final settlement with the SEC, concluding an
investigation concerning certain wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a Consent, a copy of which was attached as Exhibit 10 to our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004.
     Under the terms of the Consent, we agreed, subject to certain defined exceptions, to limit sales of all products sold to our
direct customers (including wholesalers, distributors, hospitals, retail outlets, pharmacies and government purchasers) based on expected demand or on amounts that do not exceed approximately one month of inventory on hand, without making a timely
public disclosure of any change in practice. We also agreed in the Consent to certain measures that we have implemented including: (a) establishing a formal review and certification process of our annual and quarterly reports filed with the
SEC; (b) establishing a business risk and disclosure group; (c) retaining an outside consultant to comprehensively study and help re-engineer our accounting and financial reporting processes; (d) publicly disclosing any sales
incentives offered to direct customers for the purpose of inducing them to purchase products in excess of expected demand; and (e) ensuring that our budget process gives appropriate weight to inputs that come from the bottom to the top, and not
just from the top to the bottom, and adequately documenting that process.      We have established a company-wide policy to limit
our sales to direct customers for the purpose of complying with the Consent. This policy includes the adoption of various procedures to monitor and limit sales to direct customers in accordance with the terms of the Consent. These procedures include
a governance process to escalate to appropriate management levels potential questions or concerns regarding compliance with the policy and timely resolution of such questions or concerns. In addition, compliance with the policy is monitored on a
regular basis.   
         56   

We maintain inventory management agreements (IMAs) with our U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers,
which account for nearly 100% of our gross U.S. sales. Under the current terms of the IMAs, our wholesaler customers provide us with weekly information with respect to months on hand product-level inventories and the amount of out-movement of
products. The three largest wholesalers currently account for approximately 90% of our gross U.S. sales. The inventory information received from our wholesalers, together with our internal information, is used to estimate months on hand product
level inventories at these wholesalers. We estimate months on hand product inventory levels for our U.S. business s wholesaler customers other than the three largest wholesalers by extrapolating from the months on hand calculated for the three
largest wholesalers. In contrast, our non-U.S. business has significantly more direct customers, limited information on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand
information, where available, varies widely. Accordingly, we rely on a variety of methods to estimate months on hand product level inventories for these business units.      We believe the above-described procedures provide a reasonable basis to ensure compliance with the Consent.       Recently Issued Accounting Standards       None applicable.   
   Critical Accounting Policies       The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. Our
critical accounting policies are those that significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of
matters that are inherently uncertain. Because of this uncertainty, actual results may vary from these estimates. These accounting policies were discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.   
    Revenue Recognition        Our accounting policy for revenue recognition has a substantial impact on reported results and relies on certain estimates. We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the
sales price is fixed and determinable, collectability is reasonably assured and title and substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred, which is generally at time of shipment. Revenue is also reduced for gross-to-net
sales adjustments discussed below, all of which involve significant estimates and judgment after considering legal interpretations of applicable laws and regulations, historical experience, payer channel mix (e.g. Medicare or Medicaid), current
contract prices under applicable programs, unbilled claims and processing time lags and inventory levels in the distribution channel. Estimates are assessed each period and adjusted as required to revised information or actual experience. In
addition, See   Net Sales  above for further discussion and analysis of each significant category of gross-to-net sales adjustments.        Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments        The following categories of
gross-to-net sales adjustments involve significant estimates, judgments and information obtained from external sources. See   Net Sales  above for further discussion and analysis of each significant category of gross-to-net sales
adjustments.        Charge-backs related to government programs     
  Our U.S. business participates in programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense and
the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and other parties, including covered entities under the 340B Drug Pricing Program, whereby pricing on products is extended below wholesaler list price to participating entities. These entities purchase
products through wholesalers at the lower program price and the wholesalers then charge us the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower program price. Accounts receivable is reduced for the estimated amount of un-processed charge-back
claims attributable to a sale (typically within a two to four week time lag).        Cash discounts     
  In the U.S. and certain other countries, cash discounts are offered as an incentive for prompt payment, generally approximating 2% of the
sales price. Accounts receivable is reduced for the estimated amount of un-processed cash discounts (typically within a 1 month time lag).   
         57   

Managed healthcare rebates and other contract discounts     
  Rebates and discounts are offered to managed healthcare organizations in the U.S. managing prescription drug programs and Medicare
Advantage prescription drug plans covering the Medicare Part D drug benefit in addition to their commercial plans, as well as other contract counterparties such as hospitals and group purchasing organizations globally. Beginning in 2011, the rebates
for the Medicare Part D program included a 50% discount on the Company s brand-name drugs to patients who fall within the Medicare Part D coverage gap. Rebates are also required under the U.S. Department of Defense TRICARE Retail Pharmacy
Refund Program. The estimated amount for these unpaid or unbilled rebates and discounts are presented as a liability. A $67 million reversal for the estimated amount of 2011 Medicare Part D coverage gap discounts occurred in 2012 after receipt of
the actual invoices.        Medicaid rebates        Our U.S. businesses participates in state government Medicaid programs and other qualifying Federal and state government programs requiring discounts and rebates to participating state and local
government entities. All discounts and rebates provided through these programs are included in our Medicaid rebate accrual. Retroactive to January 1, 2010, minimum rebates on Medicaid drug sales increased from 15.1% to 23.1%. Medicaid rebates
have also been extended to drugs used in managed Medicaid plans beginning in March 2010. The estimated amount for these unpaid or unbilled rebates is presented as a liability. A $37 million reversal for the estimated amount of 2010 and 2011 Managed
Medicaid discounts occurred in 2012 after receipt of the actual invoices.        Sales returns     
  Products are typically eligible to be returned between six months prior to and twelve months after product expiration, in accordance with
our policy. Estimated returns for established products are determined after considering historical experience and other factors including levels of inventory in the distribution channel, estimated shelf life, product recalls, product
discontinuances, price changes of competitive products, introductions of generic products, introductions of competitive new products and instances of expected precipitous declines in demand following the loss of exclusivity. The estimated amount for
product returns is presented as a liability. Reserves of $173 million were established for  Plavix * and  Avapro* / Avalide*  at December 31, 2012 after considering the relevant factors as well as estimated future retail and wholesale
inventory work down that would occur after the loss of exclusivity.      Estimated returns for new products are determined after
considering historical sales return experience of similar products, such as those within the same product line or similar therapeutic category. We defer recognition of revenue until the right of return expires or until sufficient historical
experience to estimate sales returns is developed in limited circumstances. This typically occurs when the new product is not an extension of an existing line of product or when historical experience with products in a similar therapeutic category
is lacking. Estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel and projected demand are also considered in estimating sales returns for new products. Although not reflected as a gross to net adjustment, $27 million of revenue related to
 Yervoy  was deferred in 2011 as a result of limited returns experience.        Use of information from external sources
       Information from external sources is used to estimate gross-to-net sales adjustments. Our estimate of inventory at the
wholesalers are based on the projected prescription demand-based sales for our products and historical inventory experience, as well as our analysis of third-party information, including written and oral information obtained from certain wholesalers
with respect to their inventory levels and sell-through to customers and third-party market research data, and our internal information. The inventory information received from wholesalers is a product of their recordkeeping process and excludes
inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as retailers and hospitals.      We have also continued the practice of
combining retail and mail prescription volume on a retail-equivalent basis. We use this methodology for internal demand forecasts. We also use information from external sources to identify prescription trends, patient demand and average selling
prices. Our estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates that rely on third-party information, as certain third-party information was itself in the form of estimates, and reflect other limitations including lags between the date as of
which third-party information is generated and the date on which we receive third-party information.        Retirement Benefits
       Accounting for pension and postretirement benefit plans requires actuarial valuations based on significant assumptions
for discount rates and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. In consultation with our actuaries, these significant assumptions and others such as salary growth, retirement, turnover, healthcare trends and mortality rates are evaluated
and selected based on expectations or actual experience during each remeasurement date. Pension expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings, projected benefit obligations and future cash funding.
Actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors.   
         58   

The yield on high quality corporate bonds that coincides with the cash flows of the
plans  estimated payouts is used in determining the discount rate. The Citigroup Pension Discount curve is used for the U.S. plans. The U.S. plans  pension expense for 2012 was determined using a 4.25% weighted-average discount rate. The
present value of benefit obligations at December 31, 2012 for the U.S. pension plans was determined using a 3.74% discount rate. If the discount rate used in determining the U.S. plans  pension expense for 2012 was reduced by an additional
1%, such expense would increase by approximately $12 million. If the assumed discount rate used in determining the U.S. pension plans  projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2012 was reduced by an additional 1%, the projected benefit
obligation would increase by approximately $1.2 billion.      The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is estimated
considering expected returns for individual asset classes with input from external advisors. We also consider long-term historical returns including actual performance compared to benchmarks for similar investments. The U.S. plans  pension
expense for 2012 was determined using an 8.75% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used in determining the U.S. plans  pension expense for 2012 was reduced by 1%, such
expense would increase by $47 million.      For a more detailed discussion on retirement benefits, see  Item 8. Financial
Statements Note 18. Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities.         Business Combinations     
  Goodwill and other intangible assets acquired in business combinations, licensing and other transactions were $16.4 billion at
December 31, 2012, representing 46% of total assets.      Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at the date
of acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill. The fair value of intangible assets, including IPRD, is typically determined using
the  income method.  This method starts with a forecast of net cash flows, risk adjusted for estimated probabilities of technical and regulatory success (for IPRD) and adjusted to present value using an appropriate discount rate that
reflects the risk associated with the cash flow streams. All assets are valued from a market participant view which might be different than specific BMS views. The valuation process is very complex and requires significant input and judgment using
internal and external sources. Although the valuations are required to be finalized within a one-year period, it must consider all and only those facts and evidence available at the acquisition date. The most complex and judgmental matters
applicable to the valuation process are summarized below:       

Unit of account    Most intangible assets are valued as single global assets rather than multiple assets for each jurisdiction or
indication after considering the development stage, expected levels of incremental costs to obtain additional approvals, risks associated with further development, amount and timing of benefits expected to be derived in the future, expected patent
lives in various jurisdictions and the intention to promote the asset as a global brand.          

Estimated useful life    The asset life expected to contribute meaningful cash flows is determined after considering all pertinent
matters associated with the asset, including expected regulatory approval dates (if unapproved), exclusivity periods and other legal, regulatory or contractual provisions as well as the effects of any obsolescence, demand, competition, and other
economic factors, including barriers to entry.          

Probability of Technical and Regulatory Success (PTRS) Rate    PTRS rates are determined based upon industry averages considering the
respective programs development stage and disease indication and adjusted for specific information or data known at the acquisition date. Subsequent clinical results or other internal or external data obtained could alter the PTRS rate and
materially impact the estimated fair value of the intangible asset in subsequent periods leading to impairment charges.          

Projections    Future revenues are estimated after considering many factors such as initial market opportunity, pricing, sales
trajectories to peak sales levels, competitive environment and product evolution. Future costs and expenses are estimated after considering historical market trends, market participant synergies and the timing and level of additional development
costs to obtain the initial or additional regulatory approvals, maintain or further enhance the product. We generally assume initial positive cash flows to commence shortly after the receipt of expected regulatory approvals which typically may not
occur for a number of years. Actual cash flows attributed to the project are likely to be different than those assumed since projections are subjected to multiple factors including trial results and regulatory matters which could materially change
the ultimate commercial success of the asset as well as significantly alter the costs to develop the respective asset into commercially viable products.      

Tax rates    The expected future income is tax effected using a market participant tax rate. Our recent valuations typically use a U.S.
tax rate (and applicable state taxes) after considering the jurisdiction in which the intellectual property is held and location of research and manufacturing infrastructure. We also considered that any earnings repatriation would likely have U.S.
tax consequences.             

Discount rate    Discount rates are selected after considering the risks inherent in the future cash flows; the assessment of the
asset s life cycle and the competitive trends impacting the asset, including consideration of any technical, legal, regulatory, or economic barriers to entry, as well as expected changes in standards of practice for indications addressed by the
asset.      
         59   

See  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 4. Acquisitions  for specific
details and values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in our acquisitions of Amylin and Inhibitex in 2012, Amira in 2011 and ZymoGenetics in 2010. Significant estimates utilized at the time of the valuations to support the fair
values of the lead compounds within the acquisitions include:       
      Impairment          Goodwill        Goodwill was $7.6 billion at December 31, 2012.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment on an enterprise level by assessing qualitative factors or performing a quantitative analysis in determining whether it is more likely than not that its fair value exceeds the carrying value.
Examples of qualitative factors assessed in the current year included our share price, our financial performance compared to budgets, long-term financial plans, macroeconomic, industry and market conditions as well as the substantial excess of fair
value over the carrying value of net assets from the annual impairment test performed in the prior year. Positive and negative influences of each relevant factor were assessed both individually and in the aggregate and as a result it was concluded
that no additional quantitative testing was required.      For discussion on goodwill, acquired in-process research and
development and other intangible assets, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 1. Accounting Policies Goodwill, Acquired In-Process Research and Development and Other Intangible Assets.    
    Other Intangible Assets, including IPRD        Other intangible assets were $8.8 billion at December 31, 2012, including licenses ($626 million), developed technology rights ($7.2 billion), capitalized software ($261 million) and IPRD ($668
million). Intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever current facts or circumstances warrant a review, although IPRD is required to be tested at least annually. Intangible assets are highly vulnerable to impairment charges, particularly
newly acquired assets for recently launched products or IPRD. These assets are initially measured at fair value and therefore any reduction in expectations used in the valuations could potentially lead to impairment. Some of the more common
potential risks leading to impairment include competition, earlier than expected loss of exclusivity, pricing pressures, adverse regulatory changes or clinical trial results, delay or failure to obtain regulatory approval and additional development
costs, inability to achieve expected synergies, higher operating costs, changes in tax laws and other macro-economic changes. The complexity in estimating the fair value of intangible assets in connection with an impairment test is similar to the
initial valuation.      Considering the high risk nature of research and development and the industry s success rate of
bringing developmental compounds to market, IPRD impairment charges are likely to occur in future periods. We recognized charges of $2.1 billion in 2012 including a $1.8 billion charge resulting from the discontinued development of BMS-986094 and
for other projects previously acquired in the Medarex, Inc and Inhibitex acquisition resulting from unfavorable clinical trial results, additional development costs, extended development periods and decisions to cease further development. We also
recognized charges of $30 million in 2011 and $10 million in 2010 related to three Medarex projects for which development has ceased. IPRD is closely monitored and assessed each period for impairment.   
  In addition to IPRD, commercial assets are also subject to impairment. For example, an impairment charge of $120 million was recognized
in 2012 related to a non-key product ( Recothrom ) acquired in the acquisition of ZymoGenetics after continuing competitive pricing pressures. The preliminary estimated fair value of developed technology rights resulting from the acquisition of
Amylin was $6.3 billion, including $5.3 billion allocated to a recently-launched single asset,  Bydureon* . These assets are monitored for changes in expectations from those used in the initial valuation, including revenue trends and operating
synergies.   
         60   

Contingencies        In the normal course of business, we are subject to contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of our business, that cover a wide range of matters, including, among others, government
investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and environmental liability, contractual claims and tax matters. We recognize accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be
reasonably estimated. These estimates are subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict and, as such, actual results could vary from these estimates.      For discussions on contingencies, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 1. Accounting Policies Contingencies,    Note 7. Income Taxes  and   Note 21. Legal
Proceedings and Contingencies.         Income Taxes        Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is
required often requires significant judgment including long-range forecasts of future taxable income and evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period when such
assessments are made. Our deferred tax assets were $5.1 billion, net of valuation allowances of $4.4 billion at December 31, 2012 and $3.2 billion, net of valuation allowances of $3.9 billion at December 31, 2011.   
  Deferred tax assets related to a U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforward of $170 million and a U.S. Federal tax credit carryforward
of $31 million were recognized at December 31, 2012. The net operating loss carryforward expires in varying amounts beginning in 2022. The U.S. Federal tax credit carryforward expires in varying amounts beginning in 2017. The realization of
these carryforwards is dependent on generating sufficient domestic-sourced taxable income prior to their expiration. Although realization is not assured, we believe it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be realized.
     In addition, a deferred tax asset related to a U.S. Federal and state capital loss of $794 million was recognized at
December 31, 2012 that can be carried back three years and carried forward five years. The realization of this carryforward is dependent upon generating sufficient capital gains prior to its expiration. A $411 million valuation allowance was
established for this item at December 31, 2012.      Taxes are not provided on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries
expected to be reinvested indefinitely offshore. During 2010, the Company completed an internal reorganization of certain legal entities which contributed to a $207 million tax charge recognized in the fourth quarter of 2010. It is possible that
U.S. tax authorities could assert additional material tax liabilities arising from the reorganization. If such assertion were to occur, the Company would vigorously challenge any such assertion and believes it would prevail; however there can be no
assurance of such a result.      Prior to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (Mead Johnson) split-off in 2009, the following
transactions occurred: (i) an internal spin-off of Mead Johnson shares while still owned by us; (ii) conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares; and; (iii) conversion of Mead Johnson   Company to a
limited liability company. These transactions as well as the split-off of Mead Johnson through the exchange offer should qualify as tax-exempt transactions under the Internal Revenue Code based upon a private letter ruling received from the Internal
Revenue Service related to the conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares, and outside legal opinions. Certain assumptions, representations and covenants by Mead Johnson were relied upon regarding the future conduct of its
business and other matters which could affect the tax treatment of the exchange. For example, the current tax law generally creates a presumption that the exchange would be taxable to us, if Mead Johnson or its shareholders were to engage in
transactions that result in a 50% or greater change in its stock ownership during a four year period beginning two years before the exchange offer, unless it is established that the exchange offer were not part of a plan or series of related
transactions to effect such a change in ownership. If the internal spin-off or exchange offer were determined not to qualify as a tax exempt transaction, the transaction could be subject to tax as if the exchange was a taxable sale by us at market
value.      In addition, a negative basis or excess loss account (ELA) existed in our investment in stock of Mead Johnson prior to
these transactions. We received an opinion from outside legal counsel to the effect that it is more likely than not that we eliminated the ELA as part of these transactions and do not have taxable income with respect to the ELA. The tax law in this
area is complex and it is possible that even if the internal spin-off and the exchange offer is tax exempt under the Internal Revenue Code, the IRS could assert that we have additional taxable income for the period with respect to the ELA. We could
be exposed to additional taxes if this were to occur. Based upon our understanding of the Internal Revenue Code and opinion from outside legal counsel, a tax reserve of $244 million was established reducing the gain on disposal of Mead Johnson
included in discontinued operations in 2009.      We agreed to certain tax related indemnities with Mead Johnson as set forth in
the tax sharing agreement. For example, Mead Johnson has agreed to indemnify us for potential tax effects resulting from the breach of certain representations discussed above as well as certain transactions related to the acquisition of Mead
Johnson s stock or assets. We have agreed to indemnify Mead Johnson for certain taxes related to its business prior to the completion of the IPO and created as part of the restructuring to facilitate the IPO.   
         61   

We established liabilities for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known
tax exposures including, but not limited to, transfer pricing matters, tax credits and deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over
time as more information becomes known.      For discussions on income taxes, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 1.
Accounting Policies Income Taxes  and   Note 7. Income Taxes.        Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
      This annual report on Form 10-K (including documents incorporated by reference) and other written and oral statements we
make from time to time contain certain  forward-looking  statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can identify these forward-looking
statements by the fact they use words such as  should ,  expect ,  anticipate ,  estimate ,  target ,  may ,  project ,  guidance ,  intend ,  plan ,
 believe  and other words and terms of similar meaning and expression in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. One can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate
strictly to historical or current facts. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from current expectations. These statements are likely to relate to, among other things, our goals, plans and projections regarding our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, market position, product
development, product approvals, sales efforts, expenses, performance or results of current and anticipated products and the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings and financial results, which are based on current expectations that
involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including internal or external factors that could delay, divert or change any of them in the next several years. We have included important factors in the cautionary statements included in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K, particularly under  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement.      Although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not
to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.   
         62   

Item 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.         We are exposed to market risk resulting from changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Certain derivative financial instruments are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge our
underlying economic exposure. All of our financial instruments, including derivatives, are subject to counterparty credit risk considered as part of the overall fair value measurement. Derivative financial instruments are not used for trading
purposes.       Foreign Exchange Risk       Significant amounts of our revenues, earnings and cash flow is exposed to changes in foreign currency rates. Our primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the euro, Japanese yen, Chinese
renminbi, Canadian dollar and British pound. Foreign currency forward contracts are used to manage foreign exchange risk that primarily arises from certain intercompany purchase transactions and are designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges
when appropriate. In addition, we are exposed to foreign exchange transaction risk that arises from non-functional currency denominated assets and liabilities and earnings denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies. Foreign currency forward contracts
are used to offset a portion of these exposures and are not designated as hedges. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognized in earnings as incurred.      We estimate that a 10% appreciation in the underlying currencies being hedged from their levels against the U.S. dollar (with all other variables held constant) would decrease the fair value of foreign
exchange forward contracts by $162 million at December 31, 2012. If realized, this appreciation would negatively affect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts.      We are also exposed to translation risk on non-U.S. dollar-denominated net assets. Non-U.S. dollar borrowings are used to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign
affiliates and are designated as hedges of net investments. The effective portion of foreign exchange gains or losses on these hedges is recognized as part of the foreign currency translation component of accumulated OCI. If our net investment were
to fall below the equivalent value of the non-U.S. debt borrowings, the change in the remeasurement basis of the debt would be subject to recognition in income as changes occur. For additional information, see  Item 8. Financial
Statements Note 9. Financial Instruments.        Interest Rate Risk    
  Fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts are used and designated as fair-value hedges as part of our interest rate risk management
strategy. These contracts are intended to provide us with an appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate debt. We estimate that an increase of 100 basis points in short-term or long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of our
interest rate swap contracts by $66 million, excluding the effects of our counterparty and our own credit risk. If realized, the fair value reduction would affect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts.   
  We estimate that an increase of 100 basis points in long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of long-term debt by $621
million. Our marketable securities are subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest rate fluctuations and other market factors. Our policy is to invest only in institutions that meet high credit quality standards. We estimate that an
increase of 100 basis points in interest rates in general would decrease the fair value of our debt security portfolio by approximately $95 million.       Credit Risk       Although not material, certain European government-backed
entities with a higher risk of default were identified by monitoring economic factors including credit ratings, credit-default swap rates and debt-to-gross domestic product ratios in addition to entity specific factors. Historically, our exposure
was limited by factoring receivables and deferring revenues until the collection of cash. However, during 2012, counterparties in our factoring arrangements suspended factoring of receivables from Spanish and Portuguese government-backed entities
and limited factoring of receivables from certain Italian government-backed entities. Our credit exposures in Europe may increase in the future due to further reductions in our factoring arrangements and the ongoing sovereign debt crisis. Our credit
exposure to government-backed trade receivables in Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain were approximately $252 million at December 31, 2012, of which approximately 75% is from government-backed entities.   
  We monitor our investments with counterparties with the objective of minimizing concentrations of credit risk. Our investment policy
places limits on the amount and time to maturity of investments with any individual counterparty. The policy also requires that investments are made primarily with highly rated corporate, financial, U.S. government and government supported
institutions.      The use of derivative instruments exposes us to credit risk. When the fair value of a derivative instrument
contract is positive, we are exposed to credit risk if the counterparty fails to perform. When the fair value of a derivative instrument contract is negative, the counterparty is exposed to credit risk if we fail to perform our obligation. Under the
terms of the agreements, posting of collateral is not required by any party whether derivatives are in an asset or liability position. We have a policy of diversifying derivatives with counterparties to mitigate the overall risk of counterparty
defaults. For additional information, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 9. Financial Instruments.    
         63   

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY    
      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS    
    Dollars and Shares in Millions, Except Per Share Data    

Item 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.          
 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   
         64   

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY    
      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME    
    Dollars in Millions        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   

         65   

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY    
      CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS    
    Dollars in Millions, Except Share and Per Share Data    
   
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   

         66   

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY    
      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS    
    Dollars in Millions        
 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   
         67   

Note 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES    
    Basis of Consolidation       The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), including the accounts of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which
may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, or the Company) and all of its controlled majority-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. Material subsequent events are evaluated and disclosed through the
report issuance date.      Codevelopment, cocommercialization and license arrangements are assessed to determine whether the terms
provide economic or other control over the entity requiring consolidation of an entity. Entities controlled by means other than a majority voting interest are referred to as variable interest entities. There were no arrangements with material
variable interest entities during any of the periods presented.       Use of Estimates    
  The preparation of financial statements requires the use of management estimates and assumptions. The most significant assumptions are
employed in estimates used in determining the fair value and potential impairment of intangible assets; sales rebate and return accruals; legal contingencies; income taxes; and pension and postretirement benefits. Actual results may differ from
estimated results.       Reclassifications       Certain prior period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. The presentation of depreciation and amortization in the consolidated statements of cash flows includes the
depreciation of property, plant and equipment, the amortization of intangible assets and deferred income. The provision for restructuring, equity in net income of affiliates, and litigation expense, net, previously presented separately on the
consolidated statements of earnings are currently presented as components of other (income)/expense.       Revenue Recognition    
  Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the sales price is fixed and determinable, collectability is
reasonably assured and title and substantially all risks and rewards of ownership is transferred, generally at time of shipment. However, certain sales of non-U.S. businesses are recognized on the date of receipt by the purchaser. See
  Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations  for further discussion of revenue recognition related to alliances. Provisions are made at the time of revenue recognition for expected sales returns, discounts, rebates and estimated sales
allowances based on historical experience updated for changes in facts and circumstances including the impact of applicable healthcare legislation. Such provisions are recognized as a reduction of revenue.   
  Revenue is deferred until the right of return no longer exists or sufficient historical experience to estimate sales returns is developed
when a new product is not an extension of an existing line of product or there is no historical experience with products in a similar therapeutic category.       Income Taxes       The provision for income taxes includes income taxes paid or
payable for the current year plus the change in deferred taxes during the year. Deferred taxes result from differences between the financial and tax basis of assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes
are enacted. Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is required often requires significant
judgment including the long-range forecast of future taxable income and the evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period when such assessments are made.   
  We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on
examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefit recognized in the financial statements for a particular tax position is based on the largest benefit that is more likely than not to be realized
upon settlement.       Cash and Cash Equivalents       Cash and cash equivalents include U.S. Treasury securities, government agency securities, bank deposits, time deposits and money market funds. Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with
original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase and are recognized at cost, which approximates fair value.   
         68   

Marketable Securities and Investments in Other Companies    
  Marketable securities are classified as  available-for-sale  on the date of purchase and reported at fair value. Fair value is
determined based on observable market quotes or valuation models using assessments of counterparty credit worthiness, credit default risk or underlying security and overall capital market liquidity.   
  Investments in 50% or less owned companies are accounted for using the equity method of accounting when the ability to exercise
significant influence is maintained. The share of net income or losses of equity investments is included in equity in net income of affiliates in other (income)/expense. Equity investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing if the decline in
market value of the investment below the carrying value is other than temporary, which considers the intent and ability to retain the investment, the length of time and extent that the market value has been less than cost, and the financial
condition of the investee.       Inventory Valuation       Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or market.       Property, Plant and Equipment
and Depreciation       Expenditures for additions, renewals and improvements are capitalized at cost. Depreciation is computed
on a straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the related assets. The estimated useful lives of depreciable assets range from 20 to 50 years for buildings and 3 to 20 years for machinery, equipment, and fixtures.   
   Impairment of Long-Lived Assets       Current facts or circumstances are periodically evaluated to determine if the carrying value of depreciable assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances exist, an estimate of
undiscounted future cash flows generated by the long-lived asset, or the appropriate grouping of assets, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists at its lowest level of identifiable cash flows. If an asset is
determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset s fair value and its carrying value. An estimate of the asset s fair value is based on quoted market prices in active markets, if available. If
quoted market prices are not available, the estimate of fair value is based on various valuation techniques using Level 3 fair value inputs, including a discounted value of estimated future cash flows. Long-lived assets held for sale are reported at
the lower of its carrying value or its estimated net realizable value.       Capitalized Software    
  Eligible costs to obtain internal use software for significant systems projects are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful
life of the software. Insignificant costs to obtain software for projects are expensed as incurred.       Business Combinations    
  Businesses acquired are consolidated upon obtaining control of the acquiree. The fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed are
recognized at the date of acquisition. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill. Legal, audit, business valuation, and all other business acquisition costs are expensed when
incurred.       Goodwill, Acquired In-Process Research and Development and Other Intangible Assets    
  The fair value of intangible assets is typically determined using the  income method  which utilizes Level 3 fair value inputs.
The market participant valuations assume a global view considering all potential jurisdictions and indications based on discounted after-tax cash flow projections, risk adjusted for estimated probability of technical and regulatory success (for
IPRD).      Finite-lived intangible assets, including licenses, developed technology rights and IPRD projects that reach
commercialization are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life. Estimated useful lives are determined considering the period in which the assets are expected to contribute to future cash flows.   
  Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment by assessing qualitative factors or performing a quantitative analysis in determining
whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of net assets are below their carrying amounts. Examples of qualitative factors assessed in 2012 include our share price, our financial performance compared to budgets, long-term financial
plans, macroeconomic, industry and market conditions as well as the substantial excess of fair value over the carrying value of net assets from the annual impairment test performed in the prior year. Each relevant factor is assessed both
individually and in the aggregate.      IPRD is tested for impairment on an annual basis and more frequently if events occur or
circumstances change that would indicate a potential reduction in the fair values of the assets below their carrying value. If the carrying value of IPRD is determined to exceed the fair value, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference.
  
         69   

Finite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment when facts or circumstances suggest
that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. If the carrying value exceeds the projected undiscounted pre-tax cash flows of the intangible asset, an impairment loss equal to the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair
value (discounted after-tax cash flows) is recognized.       Restructuring    
  Restructuring charges are recognized as a result of actions to streamline operations and rationalize manufacturing facilities. Judgment is
used when estimating the impact of restructuring plans, including future termination benefits and other exit costs to be incurred when the actions take place. Actual results could vary from these estimates.   
   Contingencies       Loss
contingencies from legal proceedings and claims may occur from a wide range of matters, including, government investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and environmental liability, contractual claims and tax matters. Accruals are recognized when
it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Gain contingencies are not recognized until realized. Legal fees are expensed as incurred.       Derivative Financial Instruments       Derivatives are used principally in the
management of interest rate and foreign currency exposures and are not held or used for trading purposes.      Derivatives are
recognized at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings unless specific hedge criteria are met. If the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, changes in fair value of the derivative and of the hedged item attributable to
the hedged risk are recognized in earnings. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portions of changes in the fair value of the derivative are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) and subsequently
recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. Cash flows are classified consistent with the underlying hedged item.      Derivatives are designated and assigned as hedges of forecasted transactions, specific assets or specific liabilities. When hedged assets or liabilities are sold or extinguished or the forecasted
transactions being hedged are no longer probable to occur, a gain or loss is immediately recognized in earnings.   
  Non-derivative instruments, primarily euro denominated long-term debt, are also designated as hedges of net investments in foreign
affiliates. The effective portion of the designated non-derivative instrument is recognized in the foreign currency translation section of OCI and the ineffective portion is recognized in earnings.   
   Shipping and Handling Costs       Shipping and handling costs are included in marketing, selling and administrative expenses and were $125 million in 2012, $139 million in 2011 and $135 million in 2010.   
   Advertising and Product Promotion Costs       Advertising and product promotion costs are expensed as incurred.       Foreign Currency
Translation       Foreign subsidiary earnings are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The net assets of
foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net assets of these subsidiaries at changing rates are recognized in OCI.   
   Research and Development    
  Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical study costs are accrued over the service periods specified in the
contracts and adjusted as necessary based upon an ongoing review of the level of effort and costs actually incurred. Strategic alliances with third parties provide rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products, the
rights to which are owned by the other party. Certain research and development payments to alliance partners are contingent upon the achievement of certain pre-determined criteria. Milestone payments achieved prior to regulatory approval of the
product are expensed as research and development. Milestone payments made in connection with regulatory approvals are capitalized and amortized to cost of products sold over the remaining useful life of the asset. Capitalized milestone payments are
tested for recoverability periodically or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Research and development is recognized net of reimbursements in connection with collaboration
agreements.   
         70   

Upfront, pre-approval milestone and other licensing receipts obtained during development are
deferred and amortized over the estimated life of the product in other income. If the Company has no future obligation for development, upfront milestone and other licensing receipts are recognized immediately in other income. The amortization
period of upfront, licensing and milestone receipts is assessed and determined after considering terms of the arrangements.   
    Note 2. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION    
   BMS operates in a single segment engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing,
distribution and sale of innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. A global research and development organization and supply chain organization are utilized and responsible for the development and delivery of products to
the market. Regional commercial organizations are used to distribute and sell the product. The business is also supported by global corporate staff functions. Segment information is consistent with the financial information regularly reviewed by the
chief operating decision maker, the chief executive officer, for purposes of evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting future periods.   
  Products are sold principally to wholesalers, and to a lesser extent, directly to distributors, retailers, hospitals, clinics, government
agencies and pharmacies. Gross sales to the three largest pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. as a percentage of global gross sales were as follows:       
    Selected geographic area information was as follows:   

(a)  
    Includes Puerto Rico.      

(b)  
    Includes Russia and Turkey.      

(c)  
    Includes Japan, China, Canada, Australia and Brazil, among other countries.      

(d)  
    Includes royalty-related revenues and sales attributed to supply agreements.      
  Net sales of key products were as follows:       
 
         71   

Note 3. ALLIANCES AND COLLABORATIONS    
   Alliances and collaborations are utilized with third parties for the development and commercialization of certain
products. These collaborations can include arrangements for access to intellectual property, research, development, manufacturing and/or commercial capabilities. The arrangements are often entered into in order to share risks and rewards related to
a specific program or product or as part of a specific divestiture strategy. Unless otherwise noted, operating results associated with the alliances and collaborations are generally treated as follows: product revenues from BMS sales are included in
net sales; royalties, collaboration, profit sharing and distribution fees are included in cost of goods sold; post-approval milestone payments to partners are deferred and amortized over the useful life of the related products in cost of products
sold; cost sharing reimbursements offset the applicable operating expense; payments to BMS attributed to upfront, pre-approval based milestone and other licensing payments are deferred and amortized over the estimated useful life of the related
products in other income/expense or as a reduction to cost of products sold for the Amylin diabetes collaboration; income and expenses attributed to a collaboration s non-core activities, such as supply and manufacturing arrangements and
compensation for opting-out of commercialization in certain countries, are included in other income/expense; partnerships and joint ventures are either consolidated or accounted for under the equity method of accounting and related cash receipts and
distributions are treated as operating cash flow.        Sanofi     
  BMS has agreements with Sanofi for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of  Avapro* / Avalide* , an angiotensin II receptor
antagonist indicated for the treatment of hypertension and diabetic nephropathy, and  Plavix* , a platelet aggregation inhibitor. The worldwide alliance operates under the framework of two geographic territories; one in the Americas
(principally the U.S., Canada, Puerto Rico and Latin American countries) and Australia and the other in Europe and Asia. Accordingly, territory partnerships were formed to manage central expenses, such as marketing, research and development and
royalties, and to supply finished product to the individual countries. In general, at the country level, agreements either to copromote (whereby a partnership was formed between the parties to sell each brand) or to comarket (whereby the parties
operate and sell their brands independently of each other) are in place.      BMS acts as the operating partner and owns a 50.1%
majority controlling interest in the territory covering the Americas and Australia and consolidates all country partnership results for this territory with Sanofi s 49.9% share of the results reflected as a noncontrolling interest. BMS
recognizes net sales in this territory and in comarketing countries outside this territory (e.g. Germany, Italy for irbesartan only, Spain and Greece). Royalties owed to Sanofi are included in cost of products sold (other than development
royalties). Sanofi acts as the operating partner and owns a 50.1% majority controlling interest in the territory covering Europe and Asia. BMS has a 49.9% ownership interest in this territory which is included in equity in net income of affiliates.
Distributions of profits relating to the partnerships are included in operating activities.      BMS and Sanofi have a separate
partnership governing the copromotion of irbesartan in the U.S. Sanofi paid BMS $350 million for their acquisition of an interest in the irbesartan license for the U.S. upon formation of the alliance.   
  Summarized financial information related to this alliance is as follows:   

72   

The following is summarized financial information for interests in the partnerships with
Sanofi for the territory covering Europe and Asia, which are not consolidated but are accounted for using the equity method:       
    Cost of products sold includes discovery royalties of $133 million in 2012, $184 million in 2011 and $307
million in 2010, which are paid directly to Sanofi. All other expenses are shared based on the applicable ownership percentages. Current assets and current liabilities include approximately $293 million in 2012, $400 million in 2011 and $567 million
in 2010 related to receivables/payables attributed to cash distributions to BMS and Sanofi as well as intercompany balances between partnerships within the territory. The remaining current assets and current liabilities consist of third-party trade
receivables, inventories and amounts due to BMS and Sanofi for the purchase of inventories, royalties and expense reimbursements.      In September 2012, BMS and Sanofi restructured the terms of the codevelopment and cocommercialization agreements discussed above. Effective as of January 1, 2013, subject to the receipt of regulatory
approvals in certain countries, Sanofi will assume the worldwide operations of the alliance with the exception of  Plavix*  for the U.S. and Puerto Rico. The alliance for  Plavix*  in these two markets will continue unchanged through
December 2019 under the same terms as in the original alliance arrangements. In exchange for the rights being assumed by Sanofi, BMS will receive quarterly royalties from January 1, 2013 until December 31, 2018 and a terminal payment from
Sanofi of $200 million at the end of 2018. All ongoing disputes between the companies have been resolved, including a one-time payment of $80 million by BMS to Sanofi related to the  Avalide*  supply disruption in the U.S. in 2011 (accrued for
in 2011).        Otsuka        BMS has a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), to codevelop and copromote  Abilify* , for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and
major depressive disorder, excluding certain Asian countries. The U.S. portion of the amended commercialization and manufacturing agreement expires upon the expected loss of product exclusivity in April 2015. The contractual share of  Abilify* 
net sales recognized by BMS was 58% in 2010 and 53.5% in 2011 and 51.5% in 2012.      In the UK, Germany, France and Spain, BMS
receives 65% of third-party net sales. In these countries and the U.S., third-party customers are invoiced by BMS on behalf of Otsuka and alliance revenue is recognized when  Abilify*  is shipped and all risks and rewards of ownership have
transferred to third party customers. BMS recognizes all of the net sales in certain countries where it is the exclusive distributor for the product or has an exclusive right to sell  Abilify* .   
  BMS purchases the product from Otsuka and performs finish manufacturing for sale to third-party customers by BMS or Otsuka. Under the
terms of the amended agreement, BMS paid Otsuka $400 million, which is amortized as a reduction of net sales through the expected loss of U.S. exclusivity in April 2015. The unamortized amount is included in other assets. Otsuka receives a royalty
based on 1.5% of total U.S. net sales, which is included in cost of products sold. Otsuka is responsible for 30% of the U.S. expenses related to the commercialization of  Abilify*  from 2010 through 2012. BMS also receives additional
reimbursement from Otsuka for costs incurred by BMS in excess of the resource requirements specified in the agreement.   
  Beginning January 1, 2013, BMS will receive the following percentages of U.S. annual net sales. Net sales will be initially
recognized at 35% and adjusted to reflect the actual level of net sales in 2013:       
 
         73   

The U.S. commercialization agreement was amended in October 2012 requiring Otsuka to assume
full responsibility for providing and funding all sales force efforts effective January 2013. In consideration, BMS paid Otsuka $27 million in January 2013, and will be responsible for funding certain operating expenses up to $82 million in 2013,
$56 million in 2014 and $8 million in 2015. In the EU, Otsuka will reimburse BMS for its sales force effort provided through March 31, 2013. Beginning April 1, 2013 Otsuka will assume responsibility for providing and funding sales force
effort.      BMS and Otsuka also entered into an oncology collaboration for  Sprycel  and  Ixempra  (ixabepilone) for
the U.S., Japan and European Union (EU) markets (the Oncology Territory). A collaboration fee, classified in cost of products sold, is paid to Otsuka based on the following percentages of annual net sales of  Sprycel  and  Ixempra  in the
Oncology Territory:       
    During these periods, Otsuka contributes (i) 20% of the first $175 million of certain commercial
operational expenses relating to the oncology products, and (ii) 1% of such commercial operational expenses relating to the products in the territory in excess of $175 million. Beginning in 2011, Otsuka copromotes  Sprycel  in the U.S. and
Japan, and has exercised the right to copromote in the top five EU markets beginning in January 2012.      The U.S. extension and
the oncology collaboration include a change-of-control provision in the case of an acquisition of BMS. If the acquiring company does not have a competing product to  Abilify* , then the new company will assume the  Abilify*  agreement (as
amended) and the oncology collaboration as it exists today. If the acquiring company has a product that competes with  Abilify* , Otsuka can elect to request the acquiring company to choose whether to divest  Abilify*  or the competing
product. In the scenario where  Abilify*  is divested, Otsuka would be obligated to acquire the rights of BMS under the  Abilify*  agreement (as amended). The agreements also provide that in the event of a generic competitor to
 Abilify*  after January 1, 2010, BMS has the option of terminating the  Abilify*  April 2009 amendment (with the agreement as previously amended remaining in force). If BMS were to exercise such option then either (i) BMS would
receive a payment from Otsuka according to a pre-determined schedule and the oncology collaboration would terminate at the same time or (ii) the oncology collaboration would continue for a truncated period according to a pre-determined
schedule.      The EU agreement remained unchanged and will expire in June 2014. In other countries where BMS has the exclusive
right to sell  Abilify* , the agreement expires on the later of April 2015 or expiration of the applicable patent or data exclusivity in such country.      In addition to the $400 million extension payment, total milestones paid to Otsuka were $217 million, of which $157 million was expensed as IPRD in 1999. The remaining $60 million was capitalized in other
intangible assets and was amortized to cost of products sold over the remaining life of the original agreement in the U.S.   
  Summarized financial information related to this alliance is as follows:   

Lilly        BMS has an Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) commercialization agreement with Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly) through Lilly s 2008 acquisition of ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone) for the
codevelopment and promotion of  Erbitux*  and necitumumab (IMC-11F8) in the U.S., which expires as to  Erbitux*  in September 2018. BMS also has codevelopment and copromotion rights to both products in Canada and Japan.  Erbitux*  is
indicated for use in the treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer and for use in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Under the EGFR agreement, with respect to  Erbitux*  sales in North America, Lilly
receives a distribution fee based on a flat rate of 39% of net sales in North America plus reimbursement of certain royalties paid by Lilly.   
         74   

In 2007, BMS and ImClone amended their codevelopment agreement with Merck KGaA (Merck) to
provide for cocommercialization of  Erbitux*  in Japan. The rights under this agreement expire in 2032; however, Lilly has the ability to terminate the agreement after 2018 if it determines that it is commercially unreasonable for Lilly to
continue.  Erbitux*  received marketing approval in Japan in 2008 for the use of  Erbitux*  in treating patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer. BMS receives 50% of the pre-tax profit from Merck sales of  Erbitux*  in
Japan which is further shared equally with Lilly.      BMS is amortizing $500 million of license acquisition costs in costs of
products sold through 2018.      In 2010, BMS and Lilly restructured the EGFR commercialization agreement described above between
BMS and ImClone as it relates to necitumumab, a novel targeted cancer therapy currently in Phase III development for non-small cell lung cancer. Both companies share in the cost of developing and potentially commercializing necitumumab in the U.S.,
Canada and Japan. Lilly maintains exclusive rights to necitumumab in all other markets.      In November 2012, we provided notice
of the termination of our global codevelopment and cocommercialization arrangement for necitumumab (IMC-11F8), a fully human monoclonal antibody being investigated as an anticancer treatment, which was discovered by ImClone and is part of the
alliance between the Company and Lilly, with all rights returning to Lilly. The termination is effective May 2014, though we and Lilly may terminate earlier.      Summarized financial information related to this alliance is as follows:       
     
    BMS acquired Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amylin) on August 8, 2012 (see   Note 4.
Acquisitions  for further information). Amylin had previously entered into a settlement and termination agreement with Lilly regarding their collaboration for the global development and commercialization of  Byetta*  and  Bydureon *
(exenatide products) under which the parties agreed to transition full responsibility of these products to Amylin. Although the transition of the U.S. operations was completed, Lilly had not yet transitioned the non-U.S. operations to Amylin. In
September 2012, BMS provided notification to Lilly that BMS will assume essentially all non-U.S. operations of the exenatide products during the first half of 2013 and therefore terminate Lilly s exclusive right to non-U.S. commercialization of
the exenatide products, subject to certain regulatory and other conditions. BMS is responsible for any non-U.S. losses incurred by Lilly during 2012 and 2013 up to a maximum of $60 million and is entitled to tiered royalties until the transition is
complete. Promissory notes assumed in the acquisition of Amylin aggregating $1.4 billion were repaid to Lilly during 2012.        Gilead
       BMS and Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead) have a joint venture to develop and commercialize  Atripla*  (efavirenz
600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), a once-daily single tablet three-drug regimen for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, combining  Sustiva , a product of BMS, and  Truvada* 
(emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), a product of Gilead, in the U.S., Canada and Europe. BMS accounts for its participation in the U.S. joint venture under the equity method of accounting.   
  Net sales of the bulk efavirenz component of  Atripla*  are deferred until the combined product is sold to third-party customers.
Net sales for the efavirenz component are based on the relative ratio of the average respective net selling prices of  Truvada*  and  Sustiva .      Summarized financial information related to this alliance is as follows:       
 
         75   

AstraZeneca        In 2012, BMS and AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AstraZeneca, entered into a collaboration regarding the worldwide development and commercialization of Amylin s portfolio
of products ( Bydureon* ,  Byetta* ,  Symlin*  and metreleptin, which is currently in development). The arrangement is based on the framework of the existing diabetes alliance agreements discussed further below, including the equal
sharing of profits and losses arising from the collaboration. AstraZeneca has indicated its intent to establish equal governance rights over certain key strategic and financial decisions regarding the collaboration pending required anti-trust
approvals in certain international markets.      BMS received preliminary proceeds of $3.6 billion from AstraZeneca as
consideration for entering into the collaboration including $73 million included in accrued expenses that is expected to be reimbursed back to AstraZeneca in 2013. The remaining $3.5 billion is accounted for as deferred income and amortized as a
reduction to cost of products sold on a pro-rata basis over the estimated useful lives of the related long-lived assets assigned in the purchase price allocation (primarily intangible assets with a weighted-average estimated useful life of 12 years
and property, plant and equipment with a weighted-average estimated useful life of 15 years). The net proceeds that BMS will receive from AstraZeneca as consideration for entering into the collaboration are subject to certain other adjustments
including the right to receive an additional $135 million when AstraZeneca exercises its option for equal governance rights.   
  BMS and AstraZeneca agreed to share in certain tax attributes related to the Amylin collaboration. The preliminary proceeds of $3.6
billion that BMS received from AstraZeneca included $207 million related to sharing of certain tax attributes.      In addition,
BMS continues to maintain two worldwide diabetes codevelopment and cocommercialization agreements with AstraZeneca for  Onglyza ,  Kombiglyze XR  (saxagliptin and metformin hydrochloride extended-release),  Komboglyze  (saxagliptin
and metformin immediate-release marketed in the EU) and  Forxiga  (dapagliflozin). The agreements for saxagliptin exclude Japan. In this document unless specifically noted, we refer to both  Kombiglyze  and  Komboglyze  as
 Kombiglyze .  Forxiga  was approved in the EU in November 2012.  Onglyza  and  Forxiga  were discovered by BMS.  Kombiglyze  was codeveloped with AstraZeneca. Both companies jointly develop the clinical and marketing
strategy and share commercialization expenses and profits and losses equally on a global basis and also share in development costs, with the exception of  Forxiga  development costs in Japan, which are borne by AstraZeneca. BMS manufactures
both products. BMS has opted to decline involvement in cocommercialization for both products in certain countries not in the BMS global commercialization network and instead receives compensation based on net sales recorded by AstraZeneca in these
countries.      BMS received $300 million in upfront, milestone and other licensing payments related to saxagliptin to date and
could receive up to an additional $300 million for sales-based milestones. BMS also received $250 million in upfront, milestone and other licensing payments related to dapagliflozin to date, including $80 million received in January 2013, and could
potentially receive up to an additional $150 million for development and regulatory milestones and up to an additional $390 million for sales-based milestones. BMS is entitled to reimbursements for 50% of capital expenditures related to Amylin.
     Summarized financial information related to these alliances is as follows:   

76   

Pfizer        BMS and Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) maintain a worldwide codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement for  Eliquis , an anticoagulant discovered by BMS for the prevention and treatment of atrial
fibrillation and other arterial thrombotic conditions.  Eliquis  was approved in the US and Japan in December 2012. Pfizer funds 60% of all development costs under the initial development plan effective January 1, 2007. The companies
jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy and share commercialization expenses and profits equally on a global basis. In certain countries not in the BMS global commercialization network, Pfizer will commercialize  Eliquis  alone and
will pay compensation to BMS based on a percentage of net sales. BMS manufactures the product.      BMS received $654 million in
upfront, milestone and other licensing payments for  Eliquis  to date, including $95 million received in February 2013 and could receive up to an additional $230 million for development and regulatory milestones. These payments are deferred and
amortized over the estimated useful life of the products in other income.      Summarized financial information related to this alliance is as
follows:       
      Valeant        In 2012, BMS and PharmaSwiss SA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (Valeant) entered into a collaboration for certain mature brand products in Europe. In connection
with the collaboration, Valeant is responsible for the marketing, promotion, distribution and sale of the products and related regulatory matters in the covered territory, and BMS is responsible for the maintenance of the products  intellectual
property and supply of the products. The collaboration expires December, 31, 2014 at which time Valeant has the right to purchase the trademarks and intellectual property at a price determined based on a multiple of sales. If the right is not
exercised, all rights transferred to Valeant during the collaboration period revert back to BMS.      As consideration for
entering into the collaboration, BMS received $79 million at the start of the collaboration period which was allocated to the license and other rights transferred to Valeant ($61 million) and the option to purchase the remaining assets at the end of
the collaboration ($18 million). The allocation was based on the estimated fair value of the option and other elements after considering various market factors, including an analysis of any estimated excess of the fair value of the mature brands
business over the potential purchase price if the option to purchase the trademarks and intellectual property is exercised at December 31, 2014. The fair value of the option was recorded as a liability, and changes in the estimated fair value
of the option liability will be recognized in the results of operations. The remaining $61 million will be recognized as alliance revenue throughout the term of the collaboration. BMS will also recognize revenue during the collaboration period for
the supply of the product, and provide certain information technology, regulatory, order processing, distribution and other transitional services in exchange for a fee during the first six months of the collaboration.   
    Note 4. ACQUISITIONS    
    Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Acquisition       On August 8, 2012, BMS completed its acquisition of the outstanding shares of Amylin, a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative medicines
to treat diabetes and other metabolic diseases. Acquisition costs of $29 million were included in other expenses.      BMS
obtained full U.S. commercialization rights to Amylin s two primary commercialized assets,  Bydureon* , a once-weekly diabetes treatment and  Byetta* , a daily diabetes treatment, both of which are glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1)
receptor agonists approved in certain countries to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes. BMS also obtained full commercialization rights to  Symlin*  (pramlintide acetate), an amylinomimetic approved in the U.S. for
adjunctive therapy to mealtime insulin to treat diabetes. Goodwill generated from this acquisition was primarily attributed to the expansion of our diabetes franchise.   
         77   

IPRD was attributed to metreleptin, an analog of the human hormone leptine being studied and
developed for the treatment of diabetes and/or hypertriglyceridemia in pediatric and adult patients with inherited or acquired lipodystrophy. The estimated useful life and the cash flows utilized to value metreleptin assumed initial positive cash
flows to commence shortly after the expected receipt of regulatory approvals, subject to trial results.       Inhibitex, Inc. Acquisition
      On February 13, 2012, BMS completed its acquisition of the outstanding shares of Inhibitex, Inc. (Inhibitex), a
clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on developing products to prevent and treat serious infectious diseases. Acquisition costs of $12 million were included in other expense.   
  BMS obtained Inhibitex s lead asset, INX-189, an oral nucleotide polymerase (NS5B) inhibitor in Phase II development for the
treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus infections. Goodwill generated from this acquisition was primarily attributed to the potential to offer a full portfolio of therapy choices for hepatitis virus infections as well as to provide additional levels
of sustainability to BMS s virology pipeline.      IPRD was primarily attributed to INX-189. INX-189 was expected to be most
effective when used in combination therapy and it was assumed all market participants would inherently maintain franchise synergies attributed to maximizing the cash flows of their existing virology pipeline assets. The cash flows utilized to value
INX-189 included such synergies and also assumed initial positive cash flows to commence shortly after the expected receipt of regulatory approvals, subject to trial results.      In August 2012, the Company discontinued development of INX-189 in the interest of patient safety. As a result, the Company recognized a non-cash, pre-tax impairment charge of $1.8 billion related to the
IPRD intangible asset in the third quarter of 2012. For further information discussion of the impairment charge, see   Note 13. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.        Amira Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Acquisition       On September 7, 2011, BMS
completed its acquisition of the outstanding shares of Amira Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amira) for $325 million in cash plus three separate, contingent $50 million payments due upon achievement of certain development and sales-based milestones. The
first contingent payment was made in the fourth quarter of 2011. The purchase price of Amira includes the estimated fair value of the total contingent consideration of $58 million, which was recorded in other liabilities. Acquisition costs of $1
million were included in other expense. Amira was a privately-held biotechnology company primarily focused on the discovery and development of therapeutic products for the treatment of cardiovascular and fibrotic inflammatory diseases. The
acquisition provides BMS with: 1) full rights to develop and commercialize AM152 which has completed Phase I clinical studies and the remainder of the Amira lysophosphatidic acid 1 receptor antagonist program; 2) researchers with fibrotic expertise;
and 3) a pre-clinical autotaxin program. Goodwill generated from the acquisition was primarily attributed to acquired scientific expertise in fibrotic diseases allowing for expansion into a new therapeutic class.   
  The contingent liability was estimated utilizing a model that assessed the probability of achieving each milestone and discounted the
amount of each potential payment based on the expected timing. Estimates used in evaluating the contingent liability were consistent with those used in evaluating the acquired IPRD. The discount rate for each payment was consistent with market debt
yields for the non-callable, publicly-traded bonds of BMS with similar maturities to each of the estimated potential payment dates. This fair value measurement was based on significant inputs not observable in the market and therefore represents a
Level 3 measurement.       ZymoGenetics, Inc. Acquisition       On October 8, 2010, BMS completed its acquisition of the outstanding shares of common stock of ZymoGenetics, Inc. (ZymoGenetics) in October 2010. Acquisition costs of $10 million were included in
other expense. ZymoGenetics is focused on developing and commercializing therapeutic protein-based products for the treatment of human diseases. The companies collaborated on the development of peginterferon lambda, a novel interferon in Phase IIb
development at the acquisition date, for the treatment of hepatitis C virus infection. The acquisition provides the Company with full rights to develop and commercialize peginterferon lambda and also brings proven capabilities with therapeutic
proteins and revenue from  Recothrom , an FDA approved specialty surgical biologic. Goodwill generated from the acquisition was primarily attributed to full ownership rights to peginterferon lambda.   
         78   

The final purchase price allocation for ZymoGenetics, Amira and Inhibitex and the
preliminary purchase price allocation (pending final valuation of intangible assets and deferred income taxes) for Amylin were as follows:       
    Cash paid for the acquisition of Amylin included payments of $5,093 million to its outstanding common
stockholders and $219 million to holders of its stock options and restricted stock units (including $94 million attributed to accelerated vesting that was accounted for as stock compensation expense in the third quarter of 2012).   
  The results of operations from acquired companies are included in the consolidated financial statements as of the acquisition date.
     Revisions to goodwill from preliminary estimates at September 30, 2012 for Amylin relate primarily to an adjustment of
the preliminary amount allocated to the fair value of acquired IPRD (decrease of $250 million) based on additional information obtained related to future cash flow projections, net of the resulting deferred tax adjustment ($99 million).   
  Pro forma supplemental financial information is not provided as the impacts of the acquisitions were not material to operating results in
the year of acquisition. Goodwill, IPRD and all intangible assets valued in these acquisitions are non-deductible for tax purposes.   
    Note 5. OTHER (INCOME)/EXPENSE    
   Other (income)/expense includes:       
 
         79   

Restructuring charges included termination benefits for workforce reductions of
manufacturing, selling, administrative, and research and development personnel across all geographic regions of approximately 1,205 in 2012, 822 in 2011 and 995 in 2010.      The following table represents the activity of employee termination and other exit cost liabilities:       
 
    Note 7. INCOME TAXES    
   The provision/(benefit) for income taxes consisted of:   
   
      Effective Tax Rate        The reconciliation of the effective tax rate to the U.S. statutory Federal income tax rate was:       
    The change in the 2012 effective tax rate from 2011 was due to:   

A tax benefit of $392 million attributable to a capital loss deduction resulting from the tax insolvency of Inhibitex; and

Favorable earnings mix between high and low tax jurisdictions primarily attributed to lower  Plavix*  sales and a $1,830 million impairment
charge for BMS-986094 intangible asset in the U.S. and to a lesser extent, an internal transfer of intellectual property.      
         80   

Partially offset by:       

An unfavorable impact on the current year rate from the delay in the legal enactment of the research and development tax credit, which was not
extended as of December 31, 2012; and          

Changes in prior period estimates upon finalizing U.S. tax returns resulting in a $54 million benefit in 2011.      
  The change in the 2011 effective tax rate from 2010 was due to:       

A $207 million charge recognized in the fourth quarter of 2010, which resulted primarily from additional U.S. taxable income from earnings of
foreign subsidiaries previously considered to be indefinitely reinvested offshore;          

Higher tax benefits from contingent tax matters primarily related to the effective settlements and remeasurements of uncertain tax positions ($161
million in 2011 and $131 million in 2010).         Partially offset by:   

Unfavorable earnings mix between high and low tax jurisdictions compared to the prior year;      

The non-tax deductible annual pharmaceutical company fee effective January 1, 2011 (tax impact of $80 million); and

An out-of-period tax adjustment of $59 million in 2010 for previously unrecognized net deferred tax assets primarily attributed to deferred profits
related to certain alliances as of December 31, 2009 (not material to any prior periods).         The American
Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (the Act) was signed into law on January 2, 2013. Among the provisions of the Act, was the retroactive reinstatement of the R D tax credit and look thru exception for 2012 and 2013. As a result, the 2012 R D
tax credit and look thru exception benefit will be recognized in the first quarter of 2013.       Deferred Taxes and Valuation Allowance 
     The components of current and non-current deferred income tax assets/(liabilities) were as follows:   

81   

The U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards were $486 million at December 31,
2012. These carryforwards were acquired as a result of certain acquisitions and are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The net operating loss carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2022. The
U.S. Federal tax credit carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2017. The realization of the U.S. Federal tax credit carryforwards is dependent on generating sufficient domestic-sourced taxable income prior to their expiration. The
capital loss available of $2,200 million can be carried back to 2009 and carried forward to 2017. The foreign and state net operating loss carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2013 (certain amounts have unlimited lives).   
  Management has established a valuation allowance when a deferred tax asset is more likely than not to be realized. At December 31,
2012, a valuation allowance of $4,404 million was established for the following items: $3,659 million primarily for foreign net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, $338 million for state deferred tax assets including net operating loss and
tax credit carryforwards, $15 million for U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards and $392 million for U.S Federal capital losses.      In 2011, foreign holding companies net operating losses and their corresponding valuation allowances included an increase of $2,027 million as a result of statutory impairment charges that are not
required in consolidated net earnings. These foreign holding companies had a higher asset basis for statutory purposes than the basis used in the consolidated financial statements due to an internal reorganization of certain legal entities in prior
periods.      Changes in the valuation allowance were as follows:   
   
    Income tax payments were $676 million in 2012, $597 million in 2011 and $672 million in 2010. The current
tax benefit realized as a result of stock related compensation credited to capital in excess of par value of stock was $71 million in 2012, $47 million in 2011 and $10 million in 2010.   
  U.S. taxes have not been provided on approximately $21 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as these undistributed
earnings are indefinitely invested offshore at December 31, 2012. Additional tax provisions will be required if these earnings are repatriated in the future to the U.S. or if such earnings are determined to be remitted in the foreseeable
future. Due to complexities in the tax laws and assumptions that would have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the amounts of income taxes that will have to be provided. As a result, BMS has favorable tax rates in Ireland and Puerto Rico
under grants not scheduled to expire prior to 2023.      An internal reorganization of certain legal entities resulted in a $207
million charge in 2010. It is possible that U.S. tax authorities could assert additional material tax liabilities arising from the reorganization. BMS would vigorously challenge any such assertion, were it to occur, and believes it would prevail;
however, there can be no assurance of such a result.      Business is conducted in various countries throughout the world and is
subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions. A significant number of tax returns are filed and subject to examination by various Federal, state and local tax authorities. Tax examinations are often complex, as tax authorities may disagree with the
treatment of items reported requiring several years to resolve. Liabilities are established for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to, transfer pricing matters, tax credits and
deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known. The effect of changes in estimates related to
contingent tax liabilities is included in the effective tax rate reconciliation above.         A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:       
 
         82   

Additional information regarding unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:   
   
    Uncertain tax benefits reduce deferred tax assets to the extent the uncertainty directly related to that
asset; otherwise, they are recognized as either current or non-current U.S. and foreign income taxes payable. Accrued interest and penalties payable for unrecognized tax benefits are included in either current or non-current U.S. and foreign income
taxes payable. Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are included in income tax expense.      BMS is
currently under examination by a number of tax authorities, including but not limited to the major tax jurisdictions listed in the table below, which have proposed adjustments to tax for issues such as transfer pricing, certain tax credits and the
deductibility of certain expenses. BMS estimates that it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2012 will decrease in the range of approximately $370 million to $400 million in the next twelve
months as a result of the settlement of certain tax audits and other events. The expected change in unrecognized tax benefits, primarily settlement related, will involve the payment of additional taxes, the adjustment of certain deferred taxes
and/or the recognition of tax benefits. BMS also anticipates that it is reasonably possible that new issues will be raised by tax authorities which may require increases to the balance of unrecognized tax benefits; however, an estimate of such
increases cannot reasonably be made at this time. BMS believes that it has adequately provided for all open tax years by tax jurisdiction.      The following is a summary of major tax jurisdictions for which tax authorities may assert additional taxes based upon tax years currently under audit and subsequent years that will likely be audited:

Note 8. EARNINGS PER SHARE    

83   

Note 9. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS    
   Financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable and payable, debt
instruments and derivatives. The carrying amount of receivables and accounts payable approximates fair value due to their short term maturity.      Changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates create exposure to market risk. Certain derivative financial instruments are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge the underlying
economic exposure. These instruments qualify as cash flow, net investment and fair value hedges upon meeting certain criteria, including effectiveness of offsetting hedged exposures. Changes in fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge
accounting are recognized in earnings as they occur. Derivative financial instruments are not used for trading purposes.   
  Financial instruments are subject to counterparty credit risk which is considered as part of the overall fair value measurement.
Counterparty credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis and mitigated by limiting amounts outstanding with any individual counterparty, utilizing conventional derivative financial instruments and only entering into agreements with counterparties
that meet high credit quality standards. The consolidated financial statements would not be materially impacted if any counterparty failed to perform according to the terms of its agreement. Collateral is not required by any party whether
derivatives are in an asset or liability position under the terms of the agreements.       Fair Value Measurements    The fair values of
financial instruments are classified into one of the following categories:      Level 1 inputs utilize non-binding
quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical assets or liabilities. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1 inputs. These instruments include U.S. treasury securities.
     Level 2 inputs utilize observable prices for similar instruments, non-binding quoted prices for identical or
similar instruments in markets that are not active, and other observable inputs that can be corroborated by market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. These instruments include corporate debt securities, commercial
paper, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insured debt securities, certificates of deposit, money market funds, foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swap contracts, equity funds, fixed income funds and long-term debt.
Additionally, certain corporate debt securities utilize a third-party matrix pricing model that uses significant inputs corroborated by market data for substantially the full term of the assets. Equity and fixed income funds are primarily invested
in publicly traded securities and are valued at the respective net asset value of the underlying investments. There were no significant unfunded commitments or restrictions on redemptions related to equity and fixed income funds as of
December 31, 2012. Level 2 derivative instruments are valued using London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR) yield curves, less credit valuation adjustments, and observable forward foreign exchange rates at
the reporting date. Valuations of derivative contracts may fluctuate considerably from period-to-period due to volatility in underlying foreign currencies and underlying interest rates, which are driven by market conditions and the duration of the
contract. Credit adjustment volatility may have a significant impact on the valuation of interest rate swaps due to changes in counterparty credit ratings and credit default swap spreads.   
  Level 3 unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is available. Valuation models for the Auction Rate
Security (ARS) and Floating Rate Security (FRS) portfolio are based on expected cash flow streams and collateral values including assessments of counterparty credit quality, default risk underlying the security, discount rates and overall capital
market liquidity. The fair value of the ARS was determined using an internally developed valuation which was based in part on indicative bids received on the underlying assets of the security and other evidence of fair value. The ARS is a private
placement security rated  BBB-  by Standard and Poor s as of December 31, 2012 and represents interests in insurance securitizations. Due to the current lack of an active market for FRS and the general lack of transparency into
their underlying assets, other qualitative analysis is relied upon to value FRS including discussions with brokers and fund managers, default risk underlying the security and overall capital markets liquidity.   
         84   

Available-For-Sale Securities and Cash Equivalents    
  The following table summarizes available-for-sale securities at December 31, 2012 and 2011:   
   
    The following table summarizes the classification of available-for-sale securities in the consolidated balance sheet:
      
    Money market funds and other securities aggregating $1,288 million and $5,469 million at
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, were included in cash and cash equivalents and valued using Level 2 inputs. Cash and cash equivalents maintained in foreign currencies were $493 million at December 31, 2012 and are subject to
currency rate risk.      At December 31, 2012, $3,512 million of non-current available for sale corporate debt securities and
FRS mature within five years. All auction rate securities mature beyond 10 years.      The change in fair value for the
investments in equity and fixed income funds are recognized in other income/expense and are designed to offset the changes in fair value of certain employee retirement benefits.      The following table summarizes the activity for financial assets utilizing Level 3 fair value measurements:       
 
         85   

Qualifying Hedges and Non-Qualifying Derivatives     
  The following summarizes the fair value of outstanding derivatives:       
     Cash Flow Hedges    Foreign currency forward contracts are primarily utilized to hedge
forecasted intercompany inventory purchase transactions in certain foreign currencies. These forward contracts are designated as cash flow hedges with the effective portion of changes in fair value being temporarily reported in accumulated OCI and
recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. The notional amount of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was primarily attributed to the Euro ($929 million) and Japanese yen ($413 million) at December 31, 2012.
     The net gains on foreign currency forward contracts qualifying for cash flow hedge accounting are expected to be reclassified
to cost of products sold within the next two years, including $25 million of pre-tax gains to be reclassified within the next 12 months. Cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued when the forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring on
the originally forecasted date, or 60 days thereafter, or when the hedge is no longer effective. Assessments to determine whether derivatives designated as qualifying hedges are highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of hedged
items are performed at inception and on a quarterly basis. Any ineffective portion of the change in fair value is included in current period earnings. The earnings impact related to discontinued cash flow hedges and hedge ineffectiveness was not
significant during all periods presented.       Net Investment Hedges    Non-U.S. dollar borrowings of
 541 million ($714 million) are designated to hedge the foreign currency exposures of the net investment in certain foreign affiliates. These borrowings are designated as net investment hedges and recognized in long term debt. The
effective portion of foreign exchange gains or losses on the remeasurement of the debt is recognized in the foreign currency translation component of accumulated OCI with the related offset in long term debt.   
   Fair Value Hedges    Fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts are designated as fair value hedges and are used as part
of an interest rate risk management strategy to create an appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate debt. The swaps and underlying debt for the benchmark risk being hedged are recorded at fair value. The effective interest rate paid on
fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps is one-month LIBOR (0.210% as of December 31, 2012) plus an interest rate spread ranging from 1.3% to 2.9%. When the underlying swap is terminated prior to maturity, the fair value basis adjustment to the
underlying debt instrument is amortized into earnings as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining life of the debt.   
  During 2011, fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts of $1.6 billion notional amount and  1.0 billion notional amount were
terminated generating total proceeds of $356 million (including accrued interest of $66 million). During 2010, fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts of $237 million notional amount and  500 million notional amount were terminated
generating total proceeds of $116 million (including accrued interest of $18 million).       Non-Qualifying Foreign Exchange
Contracts    Foreign currency forward contracts are used to offset exposure to foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities and earnings. The primary objective of these contracts is to protect the U.S. dollar value of foreign
currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities and earnings from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange rates that might occur prior to their receipt or settlement in U.S. dollars. These contracts are not designated as hedges and are
adjusted to fair value through other (income)/expense as they occur, and substantially offset the change in fair value of the underlying foreign currency denominated monetary asset, liability or earnings. The effect of non-qualifying hedges on
earnings was not significant for all periods presented.         Debt Obligations    
  Short-term borrowings and the current portion of long-term debt includes:   

86   

Long-term debt and the current portion of long term debt includes:   
   
    Included in the current portion of long-term debt is $50 million of Floating Rate Convertible Senior
Debentures due 2023 which can be redeemed by the holders at par on September 15, 2013 and 2018, or if a fundamental change in ownership occurs. The Debentures are callable at par at any time by the Company. The Debentures have a current
conversion price of $39.99, equal to a conversion rate of 25.0047 shares for each $1,000 principal amount, subject to certain anti-dilutive adjustments.      During the third quarter 2012, $2.0 billion of senior unsecured notes were issued: $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 0.875% Notes due 2017, $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.000%
Notes due 2022 and $500 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.250% Notes due 2042 in a registered public offering. Interest on the notes will be paid semi-annually. The notes rank equally in right of payment with all of BMS s existing and
future senior unsecured indebtedness. BMS may redeem the notes, in whole or in part, at any time at a predetermined redemption price. The net proceeds of the note issuances were $1,950 million, which is net of a discount of $36 million and deferred
loan issuance costs of $14 million.      The average amount of commercial paper outstanding was $224 million at a weighted-average
interest rate of 0.16% during 2012. The maximum month end amount of commercial paper outstanding was $700 million with no outstanding borrowings at December 31, 2012.      Substantially all of the $2.0 billion debt obligations assumed in the acquisition of Amylin were repaid during the third quarter of 2012, including a promissory note with Lilly with respect to a revenue
sharing obligation and Amylin senior notes due 2014.      The principal value of long-term debt obligations was $6,631 million at
December 31, 2012, of which $648 million is due in 2013, $27 million is due in 2014, $659 million is due in 2016, $750 million is due in 2017 and the remaining $4,547 million is due in 2018 or thereafter. The fair value of long-term debt was
$8,285 million and $6,406 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and was estimated based upon the quoted market prices for the same or similar debt instruments. The fair value of short-term borrowings approximates the carrying
value due to the short maturities of the debt instruments.      Debt repurchase activity was as follows:   

87   

Interest payments were $241 million in 2012, $171 million in 2011 and $178 million in 2010
net of amounts related to interest rate swap contracts.      BMS currently has two separate $1.5 billion five-year revolving
credit facilities from a syndicate of lenders, including a new facility received in July 2012. There are no financial covenants under either facility. No borrowings were outstanding under either revolving credit facility at December 31, 2012 or
2011.      At December 31, 2012, $249 million of financial guarantees were provided in the form of stand-by letters of credit
and performance bonds. The stand-by letters of credit are issued through financial institutions in support of guarantees made by BMS and its affiliates for various obligations. The performance bonds were issued to support a range of ongoing
operating activities, including sale of products to hospitals and foreign ministries of health, bonds for customs, duties and value added tax and guarantees related to miscellaneous legal actions. A significant majority of the outstanding financial
guarantees will expire within the year and are not expected to be funded.   
    Note 10. RECEIVABLES    
   Receivables include:       
    Receivables are netted with deferred income related to alliance partners until recognition of income. As
a result, alliance partner receivables and deferred income were reduced by $1,056 million and $901 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. For additional information regarding alliance partners, see   Note 3. Alliances
and Collaborations.  Non-U.S. receivables sold on a nonrecourse basis were $956 million in 2012, $1,077 million in 2011, and $932 million in 2010. In the aggregate, receivables from three pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. represented 37%
and 55% of total trade receivables at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.      Changes to the allowances for bad debt, charge-backs and
cash discounts were as follows:       
 
    Note 11. INVENTORIES    
   Inventories include:       
    Inventories expected to remain on-hand beyond one year were $424 million at December 31, 2012 and
$260 million at December 31, 2011 and included in non-current assets.   
         88   

Note 12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT    
   Property, plant and equipment includes:       
    Depreciation expense was $382 million in 2012, $448 million in 2011 and $473 million in 2010.   
    Note 13. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS    
   Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill were as follows:   
   
    Other includes an out-of-period adjustment to correct the purchase price allocation for the September
2009 Medarex acquisition and a $24 million contingent milestone payment from a prior acquisition. The Medarex purchase price adjustment decreased other intangible assets by $98 million and increased deferred tax assets by $34 million and goodwill by
$64 million. The effect of this adjustment was not material for the current or any prior periods.      Other intangible assets include:
      
    Changes in other intangible assets were as follows:   
   
    Annual amortization expense of other intangible assets is expected to be approximately $850 million in
2013, $850 million in 2014, $750 million in 2015, $750 million in 2016, $700 million in 2017 and $4,210 million thereafter.   
         89   

BMS announced the discontinued development of BMS-986094 (formerly known as INX-189), a
nucleotide polymerase (NS5B) inhibitor that was in Phase II development for the treatment of the hepatitis C virus infection on August 23, 2012. The decision was made in the interest of patient safety, based on a rapid, thorough and ongoing
assessment of patients in a Phase II study that was voluntarily suspended on August 1, 2012. BMS acquired BMS-986094 with its acquisition of Inhibitex in February 2012. As a result of the termination of this development program, a $1,830
million pre-tax impairment charge was recognized for the IPRD intangible asset.      An impairment charge of $120 million was
recognized in 2012 related to a partial write-down to fair value of developed technology costs related to a non-key product ( Recothrom ) acquired in the acquisition of ZymoGenetics. The developed technology impairment charge resulted from
continued competitive pricing pressures.   
    Note 14. ACCRUED EXPENSES    
   Accrued expenses include:       
 
    Note 15. SALES REBATES AND RETURN ACCRUALS    
   Reductions to trade receivables and accrued rebates and returns liabilities are as follows:   

Note 16. DEFERRED INCOME    
   Deferred income includes:       
    Upfront, milestone and other licensing receipts are amortized over the expected life of the product. See
  Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations  for information pertaining to revenue recognition and other transactions including $3.5 billion of proceeds received from AstraZeneca related to the Amylin collaboration during the 2012.
Deferred gains on several sale-leaseback transactions are amortized over the remaining lease terms of the related facilities through 2018. Deferred income amortization was $308 million in 2012, $173 million in 2011 and $137 million in 2010.
  
         90   

Note 17. EQUITY    
    
    Treasury stock is recognized at the cost to reacquire the shares. Shares issued from treasury are
recognized utilizing the first-in first-out method.      In May 2010, the Board of Directors authorized a repurchase of up to $3.0
billion of common stock and in June 2012 increased its authorization for the repurchase of common stock by an additional $3.0 billion. Repurchases may be made either in the open market or through private transactions, including under repurchase
plans established in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.   
  Noncontrolling interest is primarily related to the  Plavix*  and  Avapro* / Avalide*  partnerships with Sanofi for the
territory covering the Americas. Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest are presented net of taxes of $317 million in 2012, $792 million in 2011 and $683 million in 2010 with a corresponding increase to the provision for income taxes.
Distribution of the partnership profits to Sanofi and Sanofi s funding of ongoing partnership operations occur on a routine basis. The above activity includes the pre-tax income and distributions related to these partnerships.   
         91   

The components of other comprehensive income/(loss) (OCI) were as follows:   

(a)  
    Realized (gains)/losses on derivatives qualifying as effective hedges are recognized in costs of products sold.      

(b)  
    See  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 18. Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities  for further detail.

(c)  
    Realized (gains)/losses on available for sale securities are recognized in other (income)/expense.      
  The accumulated balances related to each component of other comprehensive income/(loss) (OCI), net of taxes, were as follows:   

92   

Note 18. PENSION, POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT LIABILITIES    
   The Company and certain of its subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans and
termination indemnity plans for regular full-time employees. The principal defined benefit pension plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement Income Plan, which covers most U.S. employees and represents approximately 70% of the consolidated pension
plan assets and obligations. The funding policy is to contribute at least the minimum amount required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Plan benefits are based primarily on the participant s years of credited
service and final average compensation. Plan assets consist principally of equity and fixed-income securities.      Comprehensive
medical and group life benefits are provided for substantially all U.S. retirees who elect to participate in comprehensive medical and group life plans. The medical plan is contributory. Contributions are adjusted periodically and vary by date of
retirement. The life insurance plan is noncontributory. Plan assets consist principally of equity and fixed-income securities. Similar plans exist for employees in certain countries outside of the U.S.   
  The net periodic benefit cost of defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans includes:   
   
    A $151 million pension settlement charge was recognized in 2012 for the primary U.S. pension plan as a
result of annual lump sum payments exceeding interest and service costs during the fourth quarter. The charge included the acceleration of a portion of unrecognized actuarial losses.   
  Net actuarial loss and prior service cost of $147 million is expected to be amortized from accumulated OCI into net periodic benefit cost
for pension and postretirement benefit plans in 2013.   
         93   

Changes in defined benefit and postretirement benefit plan obligations, assets, funded
status and amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets were as follows:       
    The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $8,068 million and $7,322
million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.      Additional information related to pension plans was as follows:   
   
      Actuarial Assumptions        Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31 were as follows:       
 
         94   

Weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the
years ended December 31 were as follows:       
    The yield on high quality corporate bonds that matches the duration of the benefit obligations is used in
determining the discount rate. The Citigroup Pension Discount curve is used in developing the discount rate for the U.S. plans.   
  Several factors are considered in developing the expected return on plan assets, including long-term historical returns and input from
external advisors. Individual asset class return forecasts were developed based upon market conditions, for example, price-earnings levels and yields and long-term growth expectations. The expected long-term rate of return is the weighted-average of
the target asset allocation of each individual asset class. Historical long-term actual annualized returns for U.S. pension plans were as follows:       
    Pension and postretirement liabilities were increased by $459 million at December 31, 2012 with a
corresponding charge to other comprehensive income as a result of actuarial losses attributed to the benefit obligation ($731 million) partially offset by higher than expected return on plan assets ($272 million). These actuarial losses resulted
from prevailing equity and fixed income market conditions and a reduction in interest rates in 2012.      The expected return on
plan assets was determined using the expected rate of return and a calculated value of assets, referred to as the  market-related value  which approximates the fair value of plan assets at December 31, 2012. Differences between the
assumed and actual returns are amortized to the market-related value on a straight-line basis over a three-year period.      Gains
and losses have resulted from changes in actuarial assumptions (such as changes in the discount rate) and from differences between assumed and actual experience (such as differences between actual and expected return on plan assets). These gains and
losses (except those differences being amortized to the market-related value) are only amortized to the extent they exceed 10% of the higher of the market-related value or the projected benefit obligation for each respective plan. As a result,
approximately $840 million related to pension benefits is not expected to be amortized during 2013. The majority of the remaining actuarial losses are amortized over the life expectancy of the plans  participants for U.S. plans (30 years) and
expected remaining service periods for most other plans into cost of products sold, research and development, and marketing, selling and administrative expenses as appropriate.      Assumed healthcare cost trend rates at December 31 were as follows:       
    Assumed healthcare cost trend rates have an effect on the amounts reported for the healthcare plans. A
one-percentage-point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects:       

1-Percentage-   

1-Percentage-   

Dollars in Millions  
      
   Point Increase   

Point Decrease   

Effect on total of service and interest cost   
      
  $  
    1  

$  
  (1  
  )    
 
    Effect on postretirement benefit obligation   

25  

(25  
  )    
 
         95   

Plan Assets        The fair value of pension and postretirement plan assets by asset category at December 31, 2012 and 2011 was as follows:   
   
    The investment valuation policies per investment class are as follows:   
  Level 1 inputs utilize quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for
identical assets or liabilities. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1 inputs. These instruments include equity securities, equity funds, and fixed income funds publicly traded on a national securities exchange, U.S.
treasury and agency securities, and cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase and are recognized at cost, which approximates fair
value. Pending trade sales and purchases are included in cash and cash equivalents until final settlement.   
  Level 2 inputs include observable prices for similar instruments, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in
markets that are not active, and other observable inputs that can be corroborated by market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Equity funds, fixed income funds, event driven hedge funds and short-term investment funds
classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy are valued at the net asset value of their shares held at year end. There were no significant unfunded commitments or restrictions on redemptions related to investments valued at NAV as of
December 31, 2012. Corporate debt securities, government mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligation bonds, asset backed securities, U.S. treasury and agency securities, state and municipal bonds, and real estate interests
classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy are valued utilizing observable prices for similar instruments and quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active.   
  Level 3 unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is available. Equity funds and venture capital and
limited partnership investments classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy are valued at estimated fair value. The estimated fair value is based on the fair value of the underlying investment values or cost plus or minus accumulated
earnings or losses which approximates fair value. Insurance contract interests are carried at contract value, which approximates the estimated fair value and is based on the fair value of the underlying investment of the insurance company. Insurance
contracts are held by certain foreign pension plans. Valuation models for corporate debt securities, collateralized mortgage obligation bonds and asset backed securities classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy are based on estimated
bids from brokers or other third-party vendor sources that utilize expected cash flow streams and collateral values including assessments of counterparty credit quality, default risk, discount rates and overall capital market liquidity.   
         96   

The following summarizes the activity for financial assets utilizing Level 3 fair value measurements:
      
    The investment strategy emphasizes equities in order to achieve higher expected returns and lower
expenses and required cash contributions over the long-term. A target asset allocation of 70% public equity (58% U.S. and 12% international), 8% private equity and 22% fixed income is maintained for the U.S. pension plans. Investments are well
diversified within each of the three major asset categories. Approximately 81% of the U.S. pension plans equity investments are actively managed. Venture capital and limited partnerships are typically valued on a three month lag. BMS Company common
stock represents less than 1% of the plan assets at December 31, 2012 and 2011.       Contributions    
  Contributions to the U.S. pension plans were $335 million in 2012, $343 million in 2011 and $341 million in 2010.   
  Contributions to the international pension plans were $61 million in 2012, $88 million in 2011 and $90 million in 2010. Aggregate
contributions to the U.S. and international plans are expected to be $100 million in 2013.       Estimated Future Benefit Payments
       
     Savings Plan       The principal defined contribution plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Savings and Investment Program. The contribution is based on employee contributions and the level of Company match. The expense related
to the plan was $190 million in 2012, $181 million in 2011 and $188 million in 2010.       Post Employment Benefit Plan    
  Post-employment liabilities for long-term disability benefits were $90 million and $92 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011,
respectively. The expense related to these benefits was $17 million in 2012 and $18 million in both 2011 and 2010.       Termination Indemnity
Plans       Statutory termination obligations are recognized on an undiscounted basis assuming employee termination at each
measurement date. The liability recognized for these obligations was $29 million and $25 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
         97   

Note 19. EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS    
   On May 1, 2012, the shareholders approved the 2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the 2012 Plan), which replaced
the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. Shares of common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to stock plans, options and conversions of preferred stock were 283 million at December 31, 2012. Shares available to be granted for the active
plans, adjusted for the combination of plans, were 116 million at December 31, 2012. Shares for the stock option exercise and share unit vesting are issued from treasury stock. Only shares actually delivered to participants in
connection with an award after all restrictions have lapsed will reduce the number of shares reserved. Shares tendered in a prior year to pay the purchase price of options and shares previously utilized to satisfy withholding tax obligations
upon exercise continue to be available and reserved.      Executive officers and key employees may be granted options to purchase
common stock at no less than the market price on the date the option is granted. Options generally become exercisable ratably over 4 years and have a maximum term of 10 years. Additionally, the plan provides for the granting of stock appreciation
rights whereby the grantee may surrender exercisable rights and receive common stock and/or cash measured by the excess of the market price of the common stock over the option exercise price.   
  Common stock may be granted to key employees, subject to restrictions as to continuous employment. Restrictions expire over a four year
period from date of grant. Compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period. A stock unit is a right to receive stock at the end of the specified vesting period but has no voting rights.   
  Market share units were granted to certain executives beginning in 2010. Vesting is conditioned upon continuous employment until vesting
date and the payout factor equals at least 60%. The payout factor is the share price on vesting date divided by share price on award date, with a maximum of 200%. The share price used in the payout factor is calculated using an average of the
closing prices on the grant or vest date, and the nine trading days immediately preceding the grant or vest date. Vesting occurs ratably over four years.      Long-term performance awards have a three year cycle and are delivered in the form of a target number of performance share units. The number of shares ultimately issued is calculated based on actual
performance compared to earnings targets and other performance criteria established at the beginning of the performance period. The awards have annual goals with a maximum payout of 167.5%. If threshold targets are not met for a performance period,
no payment is made under the plan for that annual period. Vesting occurs at the end of the three year period.      Stock-based
compensation expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest and is recognized over the vesting period. The acceleration of unvested stock options and restricted stock units in connection with the acquisition of Amylin resulted in stock-based
compensation expense in 2012. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience at the time of grant and revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Stock-based compensation expense was as follows:
      
    Share-based compensation activities were as follows:   

98   

Total compensation costs related to share-based payment awards not yet recognized and the
weighted-average period over which such awards are expected to be recognized at December 31, 2012 were as follows:       

Long-Term   

Stock   

Restricted   

Market   

Performance   

Dollars in Millions    
      
   Options   

Stock Units   

Share Units   

Awards   

Unrecognized compensation cost   
      
  $  
  2  

$  
  146  

$  
  31  

$  
  32  

Expected weighted-average period in years of compensation cost to be recognized   

0.2  

2.6  

2.7  

1.4  
      
    Additional information related to share-based compensation awards is summarized as follows:   
   
    The following table summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable options at
December 31, 2012 (amounts in millions, except per share data):       
    The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value, based
on the closing stock price of $32.59 on December 31, 2012.       Fair Value Assumptions    
  The fair value of restricted stock units and long-term performance awards is determined based on the closing trading price of the
Company s common stock on the grant date. Beginning in 2010, the fair value of performance share units granted was not discounted because they participate in dividends. The fair value of performance share units granted prior to 2010 was
discounted using the risk-free interest rate on the date of grant because they do not participate in dividends.      The fair
value of the market share units was estimated on the date of grant using a model applying multiple input variables that determine the probability of satisfying market conditions. The model uses the following input variables:   
   
    Expected volatility is based on the four year historical volatility levels on the Company s common
stock and the current implied volatility. The four-year risk-free interest rate was derived from the Federal Reserve, based on the market share units  contractual term. Expected dividend yield is based on historical dividend payments.
  
         99   

Note 20. LEASES    
   Minimum rental commitments for non-cancelable operating leases (primarily real estate and motor vehicles) in effect at
December 31, 2012, were as follows:       
    Operating lease expense was $142 million in 2012, $136 million in 2011 and $145 million in 2010. Sublease
income was not material for all periods presented.   
    Note 21. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES    
   The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are involved in various lawsuits, claims, government investigations and
other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. The Company recognizes accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. These matters
involve patent infringement, antitrust, securities, pricing, sales and marketing practices, environmental, commercial, health and safety matters, consumer fraud, employment matters, product liability and insurance coverage. Legal proceedings that
are material or that the Company believes could become material are described below.      Although the Company believes it has
substantial defenses in these matters, there can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in the scope of pending matters or that any future lawsuits, claims, government investigations or other legal proceedings will not be material.
Unless otherwise noted, the Company is unable to assess the outcome of the respective litigation nor is it able to provide an estimated range of potential loss. Furthermore, failure to enforce our patent rights would likely result in substantial
decreases in the respective product sales from generic competition.       INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY    
    Plavix*      Australia       As previously disclosed, Sanofi was notified that, in August 2007, GenRx Proprietary Limited (GenRx) obtained regulatory approval of an application for clopidogrel bisulfate 75mg tablets in Australia.
GenRx, formerly a subsidiary of Apotex Inc. (Apotex), has since changed its name to Apotex. In August 2007, Apotex filed an application in the Federal Court of Australia (the Federal Court) seeking revocation of Sanofi s Australian Patent
No. 597784 (Case No. NSD 1639 of 2007). Sanofi filed counterclaims of infringement and sought an injunction. On September 21, 2007, the Federal Court granted Sanofi s injunction. A subsidiary of the Company was subsequently added as a
party to the proceedings. In February 2008, a second company, Spirit Pharmaceuticals Pty. Ltd., also filed a revocation suit against the same patent. This case was consolidated with the Apotex case and a trial occurred in April 2008. On
August 12, 2008, the Federal Court of Australia held that claims of Patent No. 597784 covering clopidogrel bisulfate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, and taurocholate salts were valid. The Federal Court also held that the process claims,
pharmaceutical composition claims, and claim directed to clopidogrel and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts were invalid. The Company and Sanofi filed notices of appeal in the Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia (Full Court) appealing
the holding of invalidity of the claim covering clopidogrel and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts, process claims, and pharmaceutical composition claims which have stayed the Federal Court s ruling. Apotex filed a notice of appeal appealing
the holding of validity of the clopidogrel bisulfate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, and taurocholate claims. A hearing on the appeals occurred in February 2009. On September 29, 2009, the Full Court held all of the claims of Patent
No. 597784 invalid. In November 2009, the Company and Sanofi applied to the High Court of Australia (High Court) for special leave to appeal the judgment of the Full Court. In March 2010, the High Court denied the Company and Sanofi s
request to hear the appeal of the Full Court decision. The case has been remanded to the Federal Court for further proceedings related to damages. It is expected the amount of damages will not be material to the Company.   
         100

Plavix*      EU        
  As previously disclosed, in 2007, YES Pharmaceutical Development Services GmbH (YES Pharmaceutical) filed an application for marketing
authorization in Germany for an alternate salt form of clopidogrel. This application relied on data from studies that were originally conducted by Sanofi and BMS for  Plavix*  and were still the subject of data protection in the EU. Sanofi and
BMS have filed an action against YES Pharmaceutical and its partners in the administrative court in Cologne objecting to the marketing authorization. This matter is currently pending, although these specific marketing authorizations now have been
withdrawn from the market. The resolution of this lawsuit is not expected to have a material impact on the Company.        Plavix*  
   Canada (Apotex, Inc.)       On April 22, 2009, Apotex filed an impeachment action against Sanofi in the Federal
Court of Canada alleging that Sanofi s Canadian Patent No. 1,336,777 (the  777 Patent) is invalid. On June 8, 2009, Sanofi filed its defense to the impeachment action and filed a suit against Apotex for infringement of the
 777 Patent. The trial was completed in June 2011 and in December 2011, the Federal Court of Canada issued a decision that the  777 Patent is invalid. Sanofi has appealed this decision though generic companies have since entered the market
and a decision is expected later this year.        Abilify*        As previously disclosed, Otsuka has filed patent infringement actions against Teva, Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Barr), Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz), Synthon Laboratories, Inc (Synthon), Sun Pharmaceuticals (Sun),
Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Zydus), and Apotex relating to U.S. Patent No. 5,006,528, ( 528 Patent) which covers aripiprazole and expires in April 2015 (including the additional six-month pediatric exclusivity period). Aripiprazole is
comarketed by the Company and Otsuka in the U.S. as  Abilify* . A non-jury trial in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey (NJ District Court) against Teva/Barr and Apotex was completed in August 2010. In November 2010, the NJ
District Court upheld the validity and enforceability of the  528 Patent, maintaining the main patent protection for  Abilify*  in the U.S. until April 2015. The NJ District Court also ruled that the defendants  generic aripiprazole
product infringed the  528 Patent and permanently enjoined them from engaging in any activity that infringes the  528 Patent, including marketing their generic product in the U.S. until after the patent (including the six-month pediatric
extension) expires. Sandoz, Synthon, Sun and Zydus are also bound by the NJ District Court s decision. In December 2010, Teva/Barr and Apotex appealed this decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Federal Circuit). In May
2012, the Federal Circuit affirmed the NJ District Court s decision. In June 2012, Apotex filed a petition for rehearing  en banc  which was denied .  In December 2012, the United States Supreme Court denied Apotex s Petition for
a Writ of Certiorari requesting an appeal of the Federal Circuit decision, which concluded the matter.           Atripla*
       In April 2009, Teva filed an abbreviated New Drug Application (aNDA) to manufacture and market a generic version of
 Atripla* .  Atripla*  is a single tablet three-drug regimen combining the Company s  Sustiva  and Gilead s  Truvada* . As of this time, the Company s U.S. patent rights covering  Sustiva  s composition
of matter and method of use have not been challenged. Teva sent Gilead a Paragraph IV certification letter challenging two of the fifteen Orange Book-listed patents for  Atripla* .  Atripla*  is the product of a joint venture between the
Company and Gilead. In May 2009, Gilead filed a patent infringement action against Teva in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (SDNY). In January 2010, the Company received a notice that Teva has amended its aNDA and is
challenging eight additional Orange Book-listed patents for  Atripla* . In March 2010, the Company and Merck, Sharp   Dohme Corp. (Merck) filed a patent infringement action against Teva also in the SDNY relating to two U.S.
Patents which claim crystalline or polymorph forms of efavirenz. In March 2010, Gilead filed two patent infringement actions against Teva in the SDNY relating to six Orange Book-listed patents for  Atripla* . Trial is expected in 2013. It is
not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits or their impact on the Company.        Baraclude
       In August 2010, Teva filed an aNDA to manufacture and market generic versions of Baraclude. The Company received a
Paragraph IV certification letter from Teva challenging the one Orange Book-listed patent for Baraclude, U.S. Patent No. 5,206,244 (the  244 Patent). In September 2010, the Company filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the U.S.
District Court for the District of Delaware (Delaware District Court) against Teva for infringement. In February 2013, the Delaware District Court ruled against the Company and invalidated the  244 Patent. The Company will appeal the Delaware
District Court s decision and is evaluating all other legal options. Upon final FDA approval of its aNDA, Teva could launch its generic product. There could be a rapid and significant negative impact on U.S. sales of Baraclude beginning in
2013. U.S. net sales of Baraclude were $241 million in 2012.      In June 2012, the Company filed a patent infringement lawsuit
against Sandoz following the receipt of a Paragraph IV certification letter challenging the same Orange-Book listed patent. The parties have requested that the case be dismissed. In February 2013, the parties filed a stipulation of dismissal and the
case has been dismissed.   
         101

Sprycel        In September 2010, Apotex filed an aNDA to manufacture and market generic versions of  Sprycel . The Company received a Paragraph IV certification letter from Apotex challenging the four Orange
Book listed patents for  Sprycel , including the composition of matter patent. In November 2010, the Company filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the NJ District Court against Apotex for infringement of the four Orange Book listed patents
covering  Sprycel , which triggered an automatic 30-month stay of approval of Apotex s aNDA. In October 2011, the Company received a Paragraph IV notice letter from Apotex informing the Company that it is seeking approval of generic
versions of the 80 mg and 140 mg dosage strengths of  Sprycel  and challenging the same four Orange Book listed patents. In November 2011, BMS filed a patent infringement suit against Apotex on the 80 mg and 140 mg dosage strengths in the NJ
District Court. This case has been consolidated with the suit filed in November 2010. Trial is currently scheduled for September 2013. Discovery in this matter is ongoing. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this
lawsuit or its impact on the Company.        Sustiva      EU    
  In January 2012, Teva obtained a European marketing authorization for Efavirenz Teva 600 mg tablets. In February 2012, the Company and
Merck filed lawsuits and requests for injunctions against Teva in the Netherlands, Germany and the U.K. for infringement of Merck s European Patent No. 0582455 and Supplementary Protection Certificates expiring in November 2013. As of
December 2012, requests for injunctions have been granted in the U.K. and denied in the Netherlands and Germany. The Company and Merck are appealing the denial of the request for injunction in the Netherlands. It is not possible at this time to
reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits or their impact on the Company.       GENERAL COMMERCIAL LITIGATION    
   Clayworth Litigation       As
previously disclosed, the Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers, was named as a defendant in an action filed in California Superior Court in Oakland,  James Clayworth et al. v. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, et
al ., alleging that the defendants conspired to fix the prices of pharmaceuticals by agreeing to charge more for their drugs in the U.S. than they charge outside the U.S., particularly Canada, and asserting claims under California s
Cartwright Act and unfair competition law. The plaintiffs sought trebled monetary damages, injunctive relief and other relief. In December 2006, the Court granted the Company and the other manufacturers  motion for summary judgment based on the
pass-on defense, and judgment was then entered in favor of defendants. In July 2008, judgment in favor of defendants was affirmed by the California Court of Appeals. In July 2010, the California Supreme Court reversed the California Court of
Appeal s judgment and the matter was remanded to the California Superior Court for further proceedings. In March 2011, the defendants  motion for summary judgment was granted and judgment was entered in favor of the defendants. The
plaintiffs appealed that decision and the California Court of Appeals affirmed summary judgment for the defendants. In October 2012, the plaintiffs filed a petition seeking review by the California Supreme Court which was denied in November 2012.
      Remaining Apotex Matters Related to    Plavix  *      As previously disclosed, in November 2008, Apotex filed a lawsuit in New Jersey Superior Court entitled,  Apotex Inc., et al. v. sanofi-aventis, et al ., seeking payment of $60 million, plus
interest calculated at the rate of 1% per month from the date of the filing of the lawsuit, until paid, related to the break-up of a March 2006 proposed settlement agreement relating to the-then pending  Plavix*  patent litigation against
Apotex. In April 2011, the New Jersey Superior Court granted the Company s cross-motion for summary judgment motion and denied Apotex s motion for summary judgment. Apotex appealed these decisions and the New Jersey Appellate Division
reversed the grant of summary judgments. The case has been remanded back to the Superior Court for additional proceedings. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this lawsuit or its impact on the Company.   
  In January 2011, Apotex filed a lawsuit in Florida State Court, Broward County, alleging breach of contract relating to the May 2006
proposed settlement agreement with Apotex relating to the then pending  Plavix*  patent litigation. Apotex is seeking damages for the amount of profits it alleges it would have received from selling its generic clopidogrel bisulfate for
somewhere between 8 and 11.5 months had the May 2006 agreement been approved by regulators. Discovery has concluded. The Company moved for summary judgment which was denied in November 2012. The case is now scheduled for a trial beginning in March
2013. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this lawsuit or its impact on the Company.       PRICING, SALES AND
PROMOTIONAL PRACTICES LITIGATION AND INVESTIGATIONS         Abilify*    Federal Subpoena    
  In January 2012, the Company received a subpoena from the United States Attorney s Office for the Southern District of New York
requesting information related to, among other things, the sales and marketing of  Abilify* . It is not possible at this time to assess the outcome of this matter or its potential impact on the Company.   
         102

Abilify*    State Attorneys General Investigation    
  In March 2009, the Company received a letter from the Delaware Attorney General s Office advising of a multi-state coalition
investigating whether certain  Abilify*  marketing practices violated those respective states  consumer protection statutes. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this investigation or its potential impact on
the Company.        Abilify*    Co-Pay Assistance Litigation    
  In March 2012, the Company and its partner Otsuka were named as co-defendants in a putative class action lawsuit filed by union health and
welfare funds in the SDNY. Plaintiffs are challenging the legality of the  Abilify*  co-pay assistance program under the Federal Antitrust and the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations laws, and seeking damages. The Company and Otsuka
have filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this litigation or its potential impact on the Company.       AWP Litigation       As previously disclosed, the Company, together with a
number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers, has been a defendant in a number of private class actions as well as suits brought by the attorneys general of various states. In these actions, plaintiffs allege that defendants caused the Average
Wholesale Prices (AWPs) of their products to be inflated, thereby injuring government programs, entities and persons who reimbursed prescription drugs based on AWPs. The Company remains a defendant in two state attorneys general suits pending in
state courts around the country having settled the lawsuits brought by the Mississippi and Louisiana Attorneys General. Beginning in August 2010, the Company was the defendant in a trial in the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Commonwealth
Court), brought by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. In September 2010, the jury issued a verdict for the Company, finding that the Company was not liable for fraudulent or negligent misrepresentation; however, the Commonwealth Court judge issued a
decision on a Pennsylvania consumer protection claim that did not go to the jury, finding the Company liable for $28 million and enjoining the Company from contributing to the provision of inflated AWPs. The Company has moved to vacate the decision
and the Commonwealth has moved for a judgment notwithstanding the verdict, which the Commonwealth Court denied. The Company has appealed the decision to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court.       Qui Tam Litigation       In March 2011, the Company was served with an unsealed
qui tam complaint filed by three former sales representatives in California Superior Court, County of Los Angeles. The California Department of Insurance has elected to intervene in the lawsuit. The complaint alleges the Company paid kickbacks to
California providers and pharmacies in violation of California Insurance Frauds Prevention Act, Cal. Ins. Code   1871.7. Discovery is ongoing. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this lawsuit or its impact on the
Company.       PRODUCT LIABILITY LITIGATION       The Company is a party to various product liability lawsuits. As previously disclosed, in addition to lawsuits, the Company also faces unfiled claims involving its products.   
    Plavix*        As
previously disclosed, the Company and certain affiliates of Sanofi are defendants in a number of individual lawsuits in various state and federal courts claiming personal injury damage allegedly sustained after using  Plavix* . Currently, more
than 2,000 claims are filed in state and federal courts in various states including California, Illinois, New Jersey, and New York. The defendants terminated the previously disclosed tolling agreement effective as of September 1, 2012. In
February 2013, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation granted the Company and Sanofi s motion to establish a multidistrict litigation to coordinate federal pretrial proceedings in  Plavix * product liability and related cases. It
is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits or the potential impact on the Company.        Reglan*
       The Company is one of a number of defendants in numerous lawsuits, on behalf of approximately 2,700 plaintiffs,
claiming personal injury allegedly sustained after using  Reglan*  or another brand of the generic drug metoclopramide, a product indicated for gastroesophageal reflux and certain other gastrointestinal disorders. The Company, through its
generic subsidiary, Apothecon, Inc., distributed metoclopramide tablets manufactured by another party between 1996 and 2000. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits or the potential impact on the Company.
The resolution of these pending lawsuits is not expected to have a material impact on the Company.   
         103

Hormone Replacement Therapy       The Company is one of a number of defendants in a mass-tort litigation in which plaintiffs allege, among other things, that various hormone therapy products, including hormone therapy products formerly
manufactured by the Company ( Estrace *, Estradiol,  Delestrogen*  and  Ovcon* ) cause breast cancer, stroke, blood clots, cardiac and other injuries in women, that the defendants were aware of these risks and failed to warn
consumers. The Company has agreed to resolve the claims of approximately 400 plaintiffs. As of February 2013, the Company remains a defendant in approximately 35 actively pending lawsuits in federal and state courts throughout the U.S. All of the
Company s hormone therapy products were sold to other companies between January 2000 and August 2001. The resolution of these remaining lawsuits is not expected to have a material impact on the Company.   
    Byetta* and Bydureon*        Amylin, now a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (see   Note 4. Acquisitions ), and Lilly are co-defendants in product liability litigation related to  Byetta* and Bydureon *. As
of February 2013, there were approximately 120 separate lawsuits pending on behalf of approximately 575 plaintiffs in various courts in the U.S. The vast majority of these cases have been brought by individuals who allege personal injury sustained
after using  Byetta* , primarily pancreatitis, and, in some cases, claiming alleged wrongful death. Of these, the Company has agreed in principle to resolve the claims of over 300 plaintiffs. The majority of cases are pending in California
state court, where the Judicial Council has granted Amylin s petition for a  coordinated proceeding  for all California state court cases alleging harm from the alleged use of  Byetta* . Amylin and Lilly are currently
scheduled for trial in one single-plaintiff case in the second quarter of 2013. We cannot reasonably predict the outcome of any lawsuit, claim or proceeding. However, given that Amylin has product liability insurance coverage for existing
claims and future related claims involving  Byetta* , it is expected the amount of damages, if any, will not be material to the Company.   
   BMS-986094       In August
2012, the Company announced that it had discontinued development of BMS-986094, an investigational compound which was being tested in clinical trials to treat the hepatitis C virus infection due to the emergence of a serious safety issue. To date,
five lawsuits have been filed against the Company in Texas State Court by plaintiffs, which have been removed to Federal Court, alleging that they participated in the Phase II study of BMS-986094 and suffered injuries as a result thereof. We
have an agreement in principle to resolve four of the five filed claims and the vast majority of claims that have surfaced to date in this matter. In total, slightly fewer than 300 patients were administered the compound at various doses and
durations as part of the clinical trials. The resolution of the remaining lawsuit and any other potential future lawsuits is not expected to have a material impact on the Company.       ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEEDINGS       As previously reported, the Company is a party
to several environmental proceedings and other matters, and is responsible under various state, federal and foreign laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), for certain costs of investigating
and/or remediating contamination resulting from past industrial activity at the Company s current or former sites or at waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third-parties.   
   CERCLA Matters       With
respect to CERCLA matters for which the Company is responsible under various state, federal and foreign laws, the Company typically estimates potential costs based on information obtained from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or counterpart
state or foreign agency and/or studies prepared by independent consultants, including the total estimated costs for the site and the expected cost-sharing, if any, with other  potentially responsible parties,  and the Company accrues
liabilities when they are probable and reasonably estimable. The Company estimated its share of future costs for these sites to be $72 million at December 31, 2012, which represents the sum of best estimates or, where no best estimate can
reasonably be made, estimates of the minimal probable amount among a range of such costs (without taking into account any potential recoveries from other parties).       New Brunswick Facility   Environmental   Personal Injury Lawsuits       Since May 2008, over 250 lawsuits have been filed against the Company in New Jersey Superior Court by or on behalf of current and former residents of New Brunswick, New Jersey who live or have lived
adjacent to the Company s New Brunswick facility. The complaints either allege various personal injuries damages resulting from alleged soil and groundwater contamination on their property stemming from historical operations at the New
Brunswick facility, or are claims for medical monitoring. A portion of these complaints also assert claims for alleged property damage. In October 2008, the New Jersey Supreme Court granted Mass Tort status to these cases and transferred them to the
New Jersey Superior Court in Atlantic County for centralized case management purposes. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously in this litigation. Discovery is ongoing. Since October 2011, over 100 additional cases have been filed in New
Jersey Superior Court and removed by the Company to United States District Court, District of New Jersey. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits or the potential impact on the Company.   
         104

North Brunswick Township Board of Education    
  As previously disclosed, in October 2003, the Company was contacted by counsel representing the North Brunswick, NJ Board of Education
(BOE) regarding a site where waste materials from E.R. Squibb and Sons may have been disposed from the 1940 s through the 1960 s. Fill material containing industrial waste and heavy metals in excess of residential standards was discovered
during an expansion project at the North Brunswick Township High School, as well as at a number of neighboring residential properties and adjacent public park areas. In January 2004, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) sent
the Company and others an information request letter about possible waste disposal at the site, to which the Company responded in March 2004. The BOE and the Township, as the current owners of the school property and the park, are conducting and
jointly financing soil remediation work and ground water investigation work under a work plan approved by the NJDEP, and have asked the Company to contribute to the cost. The Company is actively monitoring the clean-up project, including its costs.
To date, neither the school board nor the Township has asserted any claim against the Company. Instead, the Company and the local entities have negotiated an agreement to attempt to resolve the matter by informal means, and avoid litigation. A
central component of the agreement is the provision by the Company of interim funding to help defray cleanup costs and assure the work is not interrupted. The Company transmitted interim funding payments in December 2007 and November 2009. The
parties commenced mediation in late 2008; however, those efforts were not successful and the parties moved to a binding allocation process. The parties are expected to conduct fact and expert discovery, followed by formal evidentiary hearings and
written argument. Hearings likely will be scheduled for mid-to-late 2013. In addition, in September 2009, the Township and BOE filed suits against several other parties alleged to have contributed waste materials to the site. The Company does not
currently believe that it is responsible for any additional amounts beyond the two interim payments totaling $4 million already transmitted. Any additional possible loss is not expected to be material.   
   OTHER PROCEEDINGS        Italy
Investigation       In July 2011, the Public Prosecutor in Florence, Italy (Italian Prosecutor) initiated a criminal
investigation against the Company s subsidiary in Italy (BMS Italy). The allegations against the Company relate to alleged activities of a former employee who left the Company in the 1990s. The Italian Prosecutor also had requested interim
measures that a judicial administrator be appointed to temporarily run the operations of BMS Italy. In October 2012, the parties reached an agreement to resolve the request for interim measures which resulted in the Italian Prosecutor withdrawing
the request and this request was accepted by the Florence Court. It is not possible at this time to assess the outcome of the underlying investigation or its potential impact on the Company.       SEC Germany Investigation       In October 2006, the SEC informed the Company
that it had begun a formal inquiry into the activities of certain of the Company s German pharmaceutical subsidiaries and its employees and/or agents. The SEC s inquiry encompasses matters formerly under investigation by the German
prosecutor in Munich, Germany, which have since been resolved. The Company understands the inquiry concerns potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). The Company is cooperating with the SEC.   
   FCPA Investigation       In
March 2012, the Company received a subpoena from the SEC. The subpoena, issued in connection with an investigation under the FCPA, primarily relates to sales and marketing practices in various countries. The Company is cooperating with the
government in its investigation of these matters.   
         105

Note 22. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)    

(1)  
    Earnings per share for the quarters may not add to the amounts for the year, as each period is computed on a discrete basis.

(2)  
    Marketable securities includes current and non-current assets.      

(3)  
    Also includes the current portion of long-term debt.      
         106

The following specified items affected the comparability of results in 2012 and 2011:   
    2012        
      2011        

*  
  The 2012 specified tax benefit relates to a capital loss deduction. The 2011 specified tax benefit relates to releases of tax reserves that were specified in prior
periods.     
    Note 23. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS    
     Collaboration with The Medicines Company        In February 2013, BMS and The Medicines Company entered into a global license and two year collaboration regarding  Recothrom , a recombinant thrombin for use as a topical hemostat to control
non-arterial bleeding during surgical procedures (previously acquired by BMS in connection with its acquisition of ZymoGenetics in 2010). Net sales of  Recothrom  were $67 million in 2012. In connection with the collaboration, The Medicines
Company will be responsible for all sales, distribution, marketing and certain regulatory matters relating to  Recothrom,  and BMS will be responsible for the exclusive supply of the product. Certain assets were transferred to The Medicines
Company at the start of the collaboration period, primarily the  Recothrom  Business License Agreement and other regulatory assets. BMS retained all other assets related to  Recothrom  including the patents, trademarks and inventory.
  
         107

The collaboration expires in February 2015 at which time The Medicines Company has the right
to purchase the remaining assets of the business held by BMS at a price determined based on a multiple of sales (plus the cost of any remaining inventory held by BMS at that time). If the option is not exercised, all assets previously transferred to
The Medicines Company during the collaboration period revert back to BMS.      BMS received $115 million at the start of the
collaboration period, which will be allocated to the license and other rights transferred to The Medicines Company and the written option, which will be recorded as an option liability at fair value. The allocation will be based on the estimated
fair value of the elements after considering various market factors and the estimated excess of the fair value of the business over the potential purchase price if the option to purchase is exercised. Changes in the estimated fair value of the
option liability will be recognized in the results of operations. The remaining amount of proceeds received upon entering into the collaboration will be recognized as alliance revenue throughout the term of the collaboration. BMS will also recognize
alliance revenue during the collaboration period for tiered royalties and supply of product. BMS will provide certain information technology, regulatory, order processing, distribution and other transitional services in exchange for a fee during a
period up to six months commencing at the start of the collaboration.        Agreement to enter into Collaboration with Reckitt Benckiser
Group plc        In February 2013, BMS and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc (RBL) agreed to enter into a license and three year
collaboration regarding several over-the-counter-products sold primarily in Mexico and Brazil. The transaction is expected to close during the first or second quarter of 2013, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. Net
sales of these products were approximately $100 million in 2012.      In connection with the collaboration, RBL will be
responsible for all sales, distribution, marketing and certain regulatory matters and BMS will be responsible for the exclusive supply of the products. Certain limited assets are expected to be transferred to RBL at the start of the collaboration
period, primarily the market authorization, as well as the employees directly attributed to the business. BMS will retain all other assets related to the business including the patents, trademarks and inventory during the collaboration period.
     Upon expiration of the collaboration, RBL will have the right to purchase the remaining assets of the business held by BMS at
a price determined based on a multiple of sales (plus the cost of any remaining inventory held by BMS at that time). If the option is not exercised, all assets previously transferred to RBL during the collaboration period revert back to BMS.
     BMS is expected to receive proceeds of $482 million at the start of the collaboration period which will be allocated to the
license and other rights transferred to RBL and the written option, which will be recorded as an option liability at fair value. The allocation will be based on the estimated fair value of the elements after considering various market factors.
Changes in the estimated fair value of the option liability will be recognized in the results of operations. The remaining amount of proceeds received upon entering into the collaboration will be recognized as alliance revenue throughout the term of
the collaboration. BMS will also recognize alliance revenue during the collaboration period for tiered royalties and supply of product. BMS will also provide certain information technology, regulatory, order processing, distribution and other
transitional services in exchange for a fee during a period up to six months commencing at the start of the collaboration.   

         108

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company   
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries (the  Company )
as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   
  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Bristol-Myers
Squibb Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012 in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America.        We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 15, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting.     
   /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP    
  Parsippany, New Jersey      February 15, 2013
  
         109

Item 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.         None.       

Item 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES          Evaluation of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures       As of December 31, 2012, management carried out an evaluation, under the
supervision and with the participation of its chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e).
Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that as of December 31, 2012, such disclosure controls and procedures were effective.   
   Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the chief executive
officer and chief financial officer, management assessed the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012 based on the framework in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As permitted by SEC guidance, we excluded Amylin from management s assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. Amylin s financial
statement amounts constituted 23% of total assets (including $6.2 billion of acquired developed technology rights and in-process research and development) and 1% of total net sales of the Company s consolidated financial statement amounts and a
pre-tax loss of $270 million as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012. Based on that assessment, management has concluded that the Company s internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31, 2012 to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of its financial statements for external purposes in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Due to its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      Deloitte   Touche LLP,
an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company s financial statements included in this report on Form 10-K and issued its report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2012, which is included herein.       Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
  In August 2012, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the Company) completed its acquisition of Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amylin) which
represents a material change in the internal control over financial reporting since management s last assessment of effectiveness. Amylin s operations utilize separate information and accounting systems and processes and it was not
possible to complete an evaluation and review of the internal controls over financial reporting since the completion of the acquisition. Management intends to complete its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
for Amylin within one year of the acquisition date. There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting in the fourth quarter of 2012 that have or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company s internal control over
financial reporting.       

Item 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         None.   
         110

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company   
  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries (the  Company )
as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As described in Management s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting, management excluded from its assessment the internal control over financial reporting at Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( Amylin ), which was acquired on August 8, 2012 and whose financial statement
amounts constitute 23% of total assets (including $6.2 billion of acquired developed technology rights and in-process research and development) and 1% of total net sales of the Company s consolidated financial statement amounts and a pre-tax
loss of $270 million as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012. Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over financial reporting at Amylin. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial
reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s
principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or
improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to
future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2012, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated
financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012 of the Company and our report dated February 15, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.   
   /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP    
  Parsippany, New Jersey      February 15, 2013
  
         111

PART III        

Item 10.   
   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.          

(a)  
    Reference is made to the 2013 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 21, 2013 with respect to the Directors of the Registrant, which is
incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 10.          

(b)  
    The information required by Item 10 with respect to the Executive Officers of the Registrant has been included in Part IA of this Form 10-K in
reliance on General Instruction G of Form 10-K and Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K.          

Item 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.      
  Reference is made to the 2013 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 21, 2013 with respect to Executive Compensation, which is
incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 11.       

Item 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.      
  Reference is made to the 2013 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 21, 2013 with respect to the security ownership of
certain beneficial owners and management, which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 12.       

Item 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.         Reference is made to the 2013 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 21, 2013 with respect to certain relationships and related transactions, which is incorporated herein by reference and made
a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 13.       
    Reference
is made to the 2013 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 21, 2013 with respect to auditor fees, which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 14.   
         112

PART IV        

Item 15.   
   EXHIBITS and FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE.          

(a)  

Page Number   

1.  

Consolidated Financial Statements   

Consolidated Statements of Earnings    

64  

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income    

65  

Consolidated Balance Sheets    

66  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    

67  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    

68-108  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

109  

All other schedules not included
with this additional financial data are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.         

2.  

Exhibits Required to be filed by Item 601 of Regulation S-K     

115-119  
       
    The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit Index in this Form 10-K.
  
         113

SIGNATURES      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.        

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY     (Registrant)    

By   
     
     /s/ LAMBERTO ANDREOTTI     

Lamberto Andreotti    

Chief Executive Officer     

Date: February 15, 2013    
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature    

Title    
     
     Date     

/s/ L AMBERTO  A NDREOTTI    

Chief Executive Officer and Director  
     
  February 15, 2013   
 
  (Lamberto Andreotti)  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

/s/ C HARLES  B ANCROFT    

Chief Financial Officer  
     
  February 15, 2013   
 
  (Charles Bancroft)  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

/s/ J OSEPH  C. C ALDARELLA    

Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller  
     
  February 15, 2013   
 
  (Joseph C. Caldarella)  

(Principal Accounting Officer)  

/s/ J AMES  M. C ORNELIUS    

Chairman of the Board of Directors  
     
  February 15, 2013   
 
    (James M. Cornelius)   

/s/ L EWIS  B. C AMPBELL    

Director  
     
  February 15, 2013   
 
    (Lewis B. Campbell)   

/s/ L OUIS  J. F REEH    

Director  
     
  February 15, 2013   
 
    (Louis J. Freeh)   

/s/ L AURIE  H. G LIMCHER , M.D.   

Director  
     
  February 15, 2013   
 
    (Laurie H. Glimcher, M.D.)   

/s/ M ICHAEL  G ROBSTEIN    

Director  
     
  February 15, 2013   
 
    (Michael Grobstein)   

/s/ A LAN  J. L ACY    

Director  
     
  February 15, 2013   
 
    (Alan J. Lacy)   

/s/ V ICKI  L. S ATO , P H .D.   

Director  
     
  February 15, 2013   
 
    (Vicki L. Sato, Ph.D.)   

/s/ E LLIOTT  S IGAL , M.D., P H .D.   

Director  
     
  February 15, 2013   
 
    (Elliott Sigal, M.D., Ph.D.)   

/s/ G ERALD   L .  STORCH    

Director  
     
  February 15, 2013   
 
    (Gerald L. Storch)   

/s/ T OGO  D. W EST , J R .   

Director  
     
  February 15, 2013   
 
    (Togo D. West, Jr.)   

/s/ R. S ANDERS  W ILLIAMS , M.D.   

Director  
     
  February 15, 2013   
 
    (R. Sanders Williams, M.D.)   

114

EXHIBIT INDEX    
  The Exhibits listed below are identified by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. The Exhibits
designated by two asterisks (**) are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed pursuant to Item 15. An asterisk (*) in the Page column indicates that the Exhibit has been previously filed with the
Commission and is incorporated herein by reference. Unless otherwise indicated, all Exhibits are part of Commission File Number 1-1136.       
 
         115

116

10p.  
      
    Side Letter to Master Restructuring Agreement between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Sanofi dated as of January 1, 2013 (filed herewith).

E-10-1   

10q.  
      
    Amended and Restated Articles of Association (Statuts) of Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb, a partnership (societe en nom collectif) organized under French
law, dated as of January 1, 2013. English Translation (filed herewith).      
        
  E-10-2   

10r.  
      
    Amended and Restated Internal Regulation (Reglement Interieur) of Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb dated as of dated as of January 1, 2013. English Translation
(filed herewith).      
        
  E-10-3   

10s.  
      
    Amendment to the Partnership Agreement of Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership between sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC (as
successor-in-interest to Sanofi Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Investco, Inc. dated as of January 1, 2013 (filed herewith).      
        
  E-10-4   

10t.  
      
    Termination Agreement of Territory A Alliance Support Agreement between Sanofi and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company dated as of January 1, 2013 (filed herewith).

E-10-5   

10u.  
      
    Amendment No.4 to the Territory B Alliance Support Agreement between Sanofi and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company dated as of January 1, 2013 (filed herewith).

E-10-6   

10v.  
      
    Amended and Restated Clopidogrel Intellectual Property License Agreement between Sanofi and Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb dated as of January 1, 2013 (filed
herewith).      
        
  E-10-7   

10w.  
      
    Amended and Restated Clopidogrel Intellectual Property License Agreement between Sanofi and Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership dated
as of January 1, 2013 (filed herewith).      
        
  E-10-8   

10x.  
      
    Amended and Restated Territory A Product Know-How License Agreement among Sanofi, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb dated as of
January 1, 2013 (filed herewith).      
        
  E-10-9   

10y.  
      
    Amended and Restated Territory B Product Know-How License Agreement among Sanofi, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals
Holding Partnership dated as of January 1, 2013 (filed herewith).      
        
  E-10-10   

10z.  
      
    Amended and Restated Territory B1 Product Know-How License Agreement among Sanofi, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC dated as of January
1, 2013 (filed herewith).      
        
  E-10-11   

10aa.  
      
    Assignment Agreement among Sanofi, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership dated as of January 1, 2013
(filed herewith).      
        
  E-10-12   

10bb.  
      
    Restated Development and Commercialization Collaboration Agreement between Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company dated as of October
23, 2001 (incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10.12 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).    
        
  *   

10cc.  
      
    Amendment No. 3 to the Restated Development and Commercialization Collaboration Agreement between Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company dated as of September 25, 2006 (incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10.13 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).    
        
  *   

10dd.  
      
    Amendment No. 5 to the Restated Development and Commercialization Collaboration Agreement between Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company effective as of April 4, 2009 (incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10.14 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).    
        
  *   

10ee.  
      
    Amendment No. 9 to the Restated Development and Commercialization Collaboration Agreement between Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company effective as of October 29, 2012 (filed herewith).      
        
  E-10-13   

**10ff.  
      
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, effective as of May 7, 2002 and as amended effective June 10, 2008 (incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008).   
        
  *   

**10gg.  
      
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan, effective as of May 1, 2012 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit B to the 2012 Proxy
Statement dated March 20, 2012).   
        
  *   

**10hh.  
      
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan, effective as of May 1, 2007 and as amended effective June 10, 2008 (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008).   
        
  *   

**10ii.  
      
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company TeamShare Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated effective September 10, 2002 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10c
to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002).   
        
  *   

**10jj.  
      
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the 2002 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10s to the Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).   
        
  *   

**10kk.  
      
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10s to the Form 10-Q for
the quarterly period ended March 31, 2007).   
        
  *   

**10ll.  
      
    Form of Performance Share Units Agreement for the 2010-2012 Performance Cycle (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10aa to the Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2009).   
        
  *   

**10mm.  
      
    Form of Performance Share Units Agreement for the 2011-2013 Performance Cycle (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10aa to the Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2010).   
        
  *   

**10nn.  
      
    Form of Performance Share Units Agreement for the 2012-2014 Performance Cycle (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10z to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2011).   
        
  *   
 
  **10oo.  
      
    Form of Performance Share Units Agreement for the 2013-2015 Performance Cycle (filed herewith).   
        
  E-10-14    
         117

118

**10iii.  
      
    Amendment to all of the Company s plans, agreements, legal documents and other writings, pursuant to action of the Board of Directors on October 3,
1989, to reflect the change of the Company s name to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10v to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989).   
        
  *   

12  
      
    Statement re computation of ratios (filed herewith).   
        
  E-12-1   

21  
      
    Subsidiaries of the Registrant (filed herewith).   
        
  E-21-1   

23  
      
    Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP (filed herewith).   
        
  E-23-1   

31a.  
      
    Section 302 Certification Letter (filed herewith).   
        
  E-31-1   

31b.  
      
    Section 302 Certification Letter (filed herewith).   
        
  E-31-1   

32a.  
      
    Section 906 Certification Letter (filed herewith).   
        
  E-32-1   

32b.  
      
    Section 906 Certification Letter (filed herewith).   
        
  E-32-2   

101.  
      
    The following financial statements from the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Annual Report on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011
and 2010, formatted in Extensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL): (i) consolidated statements of earnings, (ii) consolidated statements of comprehensive income, (iii) consolidated balance sheets, (iv) consolidated statements of cash
flows, and (v) the notes to the consolidated financial statements.   

Confidential treatment has been granted for certain portions which are omitted in the copy of the exhibit electronically filed with the Commission.

Confidential treatment has been requested for certain portions which are omitted in the copy of the exhibit electronically filed with the Commission. The omitted
information has been filed separately with the Commission pursuant to the Company s application for confidential treatment.     

*  
    Indicates, in this Form 10-K, brand names of products, which are registered trademarks not solely owned by the Company or its subsidiaries.
 Byetta, Bydureon,  and  Symlin  are trademarks of Amylin Pharmaceuticals, LLC and AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP;  Erbitux  is a trademarks of ImClone LLC;  Avapro/Avalide  (known in the EU as  Aprovel/Karvea ),
 Iscover ,  Karvezide ,  Coaprovel  and  Plavix  are trademarks of Sanofi;  Abilify  is a trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.;  Truvada  is a trademark of Gilead Sciences, Inc.;  Gleevec  is a trademark of
Novartis AG;  Atripla  is a trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences, LLC;  Norvir  is a trademark of Abbott Laboratories;  Estrace  and  Ovcon  are trademarks of Warner-Chilcott Company, LLC;  Delestrogen  is a
trademark of JHP Pharmaceuticals, LLC;  Reglan  is a trademark of ANIP Acquisition Company and  Humira  is a trademark of AbbVie Biotechnology LTD. Brand names of products that are in all italicized letters, without an asterisk, are
registered trademarks of BMS and/or one of its subsidiaries.      
         119

<EX-10.P>
 2
 d450621dex10p.htm
 EX-10.P

EX-10.p 

*Confidential Treatment Requested     
   Exhibit 10p    
   Bristol-Myers Squibb Company        345 Park Avenue        New York, NY 10154    
  January 1, 2013      Sanofi
     54, rue la Bo tie      75008
Paris, FRANCE      Ladies and Gentlemen:      Reference is hereby made to that certain Master Restructuring Agreement, dated as of September 27, 2012 (the   Master Restructuring Agreement  ), by and between Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company, a Delaware corporation (  BMS  ), and Sanofi, a  soci t  anonyme  organized under the laws of the French Republic (  Sanofi  ). Pursuant to Section 12.8 of the Master Restructuring
Agreement, BMS and Sanofi intend to modify, amend or otherwise supplement the Master Restructuring Agreement as set forth herein. This letter shall be construed as an integral part thereof. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have
the meanings assigned to them in the Master Restructuring Agreement.      In consideration of the mutual covenants and the terms
and conditions contained herein, and for good, valuable and binding consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:   
  1.  Exhibit A  attached hereto contains a description of the status, as of December 19, 2012, of the transfer of the marketing
authorizations for the Products currently held by BMS or its Affiliates that are set forth on  Schedule 5.1(a)  of the Master Restructuring Agreement and as amended hereto, the remaining steps required to complete the transfer of such marketing
authorizations and the timeline for implementing such steps.      2. On the Initial Closing Date, Sanofi SA, a Swiss Affiliate of
Sanofi, shall purchase the [*] shares of Sanofi/Bristol-Myers Squibb SA held by Bristol-Myers Squibb AG for a purchase price of [*] (  Swiss Purchase Price  ) in accordance with the agreement substantially in the form attached hereto
as  Exhibit B . The Swiss Purchase Price shall be deducted from the remuneration to be made by JVA to BMS in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Master Restructuring Agreement, Amended and Restated Territory A Clopidogrel License,
the Amended and Restated Territory A Irbesartan License, and the Amended and Restated Territory A Know-How License.   

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

3. Section 3.3(a) of the Master Restructuring Agreement is hereby deleted in its
entirety and replaced with the following:       (a) Each of the Parties shall (i) cause their Affiliate(s) and/or their
partnerships referenced herein, as applicable, to execute supply or tolling agreements in substantially the forms attached hereto as  Exhibits 3.3(a)[1]  to  [5]  as of the Initial Closing Date and (ii) agree in good faith to amend
the existing quality agreements prior to [*] to reflect changes in the underlying responsibilities of the Parties and their Affiliates (  Quality Agreement Amendments   and, together with the agreements referenced in clause
(i) above, the   Supply Agreements  ), in order to memorialize the supply or tolling arrangements for: (A) manufacturing finished Product tablets and packaging for Clopidogrel Products in the U.S.; (B) packaging and
releasing Irbesartan Products and Clopidogrel Products for Mexico, Argentina and Colombia; and (C) manufacturing Irbesartan API and Irbesartan intermediates for Irbesartan Products throughout the world (other than in Japan) as described in this
Article III.       4. Section 2.2 of the Master Restructuring Agreement is hereby amended as follows to reflect that
USIrbeJV shall use commercially reasonable efforts to sell the inventory owned by USIrbeJV to wholesalers prior to the Initial Closing Date   1   :      (a) by deleting the first sentence of subsection (b) in its entirety and replacing it with the following:       BMS s overall remuneration for the sale of its interest in USIrbeJV, forbearance of certain rights under the Alliance Agreements relating to USIrbeJV, and continuing use of the BMS Brands in
accordance with  Article VI  hereof, shall consist of the payment (on a quarterly basis and payable in the following quarter) of the applicable percentage (as set forth in  Table 2.2(b)  below and subject to the provisions of
 Sections   2.2(c)  and  (d)  herein) of IFRS Net Sales in the U.S. of Irbesartan Products between the Initial Closing Date and the Termination Date, less [*]. If the net first quarterly payment is [*], then the balance of
such amount shall be [*] from succeeding quarterly payments until [*], at which time, no [*] shall apply to such quarterly payments.       (b) by deleting subsection (e) in its entirety and replacing it with the following:       (e) [Intentionally Omitted]       5. The Parties shall cooperate in good
faith to agree upon an equitable allocation of liabilities between the Parties and their respective Affiliates in each of the Co-Marketing countries with respect to [*] for (a) Products sold by BMS or its Affiliates prior to the Initial Closing
Date and (b) Products sold on or after the Initial Closing Date by Sanofi or its Affiliates from Transferred Inventory. In all Co-Marketing countries, the principles set forth in the applicable termination agreements for the Co-Marketing
distribution agreements shall apply and shall be supplemented with the following provisions, on a country-by-country basis, when the liability for [*] cannot be clearly allocated to a specific party:   

Germany : BMS s Affiliate in Germany shall manage and process, at its own cost and expense, [*] from [*] until [*]. After [*], Sanofi shall
manage and process, at its own cost and expense, [*] of [*].          

1      
  In the event that there are products remaining in the inventory held by USIrbeJV as of the Initial Closing Date, such inventory shall be destroyed after the Initial
Closing Date. Costs of such destruction shall be equally shared between Sanofi and BMS.     

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

BMS shall manage and assume liability for [*] of [*] until [*]. After [*], Sanofi shall
manage and assume liability for [*] of [*].       

Italy : BMS s Affiliate in Italy shall manage and process, at its own cost and expense, [*] of [*] through [*]. Sanofi shall manage and
process, at its own cost and expense, [*] of such [*] from and after [*].          

Australia : No need for specific arrangements.          

Argentina : BMS s Affiliate in Argentina shall manage and process, at its own cost and expense, [*] of [*] through [*]. Sanofi shall manage
and process, at its own cost and expense, [*] of such [*] from and after [*].          

Greece : Sanofi shall manage and process, at its own cost and expense, [*] of [*] as of the Initial Closing Date.      

Spain:  When the Sanofi Affiliate or the BMS Affiliate has sold [*]% or more of the Products corresponding to a batch of [*], then [*]% of the
[*] corresponding to such batch shall be managed and processed by the Sanofi Affiliate or BMS Affiliate, respectively (such party, the   Marketing Party  ), that sold such batch, at its own cost and expense. All costs of [*] for the
[*] shall be the sole responsibility of the Marketing Party. If either the Sanofi Affiliate or the BMS Affiliate receives [*] that are part of the batches sold by the Marketing Party, the party that received such [*] shall deliver such [*] to the
Marketing Party, together with a copy of any necessary documents related to such [*]. Any costs for transferring such [*] to the Marketing Party shall be assumed by the Marketing Party.      

Mexico : Sanofi shall manage and process, at its own cost and expense, [*] of [*] as of the Initial Closing Date.      
  For further clarity, notwithstanding Section 5.1 of the transition distribution agreements to be executed by the Parties  respective Affiliates
and effective as of the Initial Closing Date, Sanofi shall be responsible for the costs of [*] sold on or after the Initial Closing Date pursuant to a transition distribution agreement if the recall is caused by the fault or negligence of Sanofi or
its Affiliates.      In Co-Promotion countries, other than Canada, the management of returns shall be managed by the Managing Partner in
accordance with Section 5 of the Agreed Principles for the Winding-Up of Local Partnerships, which is attached as Exhibit 2.1(i) to the Master Restructuring Agreement.      Subject to Paragraph 9 below, in Canada, Section 5 of the Agreed Principles for the Winding-Up of Local Partnerships is amended to the extent necessary to reflect  Exhibit C  attached hereto
when the liability for returns, rebates, credits or chargebacks cannot be allocated to a Product sold by the local Canadian partnership prior to the Initial Closing Date or by local Sanofi Affiliate after the Initial Closing Date.   

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

6. The Parties acknowledge that Sanofi and its Affiliates shall have the exclusive right to
distribute the Products in the relevant Territory as of the Initial Closing Date. In those Co-Marketing countries where the applicable local BMS Affiliates and the applicable local Sanofi Affiliates enter into transition distribution agreements
effective as of the Initial Closing Date, Sanofi shall not enter into any new, or amend any existing, agreements or arrangements, including tenders for supply contracts, after the Initial Closing Date where such agreement or arrangement relate to a
Products that is subject to such transitory distribution agreement and would create an obligation (including, without limitation, as a guarantor) or administrative or reporting burden on the part of BMS or its local Affiliate after the Initial
Closing Date, without BMS s prior written consent. If BMS consents to the entry into such agreement or arrangement, then Sanofi shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless BMS and its Affiliates from any [*] and [*]; provided, that BMS provides
notice to Sanofi and allows Sanofi to control the defense and settlement of any third party claims for damages in a manner consistent with that described for cases where BMS controls the defense and settlement of the German Actions as provided in
paragraph 7(i) below. For clarity, the preceding sentence shall not apply to claims of personal injury or death based on product liability or similar claims, the indemnification and liability for which shall remain governed by the Master
Restructuring Agreement.      7. For purposes of clarity:      (i) Sanofi acknowledges that, under the terms of the Master Restructuring Agreement, (a) [*] may commence actions in [*] after the Initial Closing Date to [*] the [*] that [*] on [*] prior to the
Initial Closing Date (the [*]), (b) [*] shall not [*], and (c) [*] shall belong to [*] and [*]. In addition to any rights to indemnification that [*] may have under the applicable Alliance Support Agreement in accordance with
Section 9.1(a) of the Master Restructuring Agreement, [*] shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless [*] from any [*] and [*], against whom [*] and are [*]; provided that (a) a [*], must in each case, [*]; and (b) [*] provides prompt
notice to [*] and not [*], and [*] shall have the right to [*]. In addition, [*] shall reimburse [*] for any [*] and [*].      (ii)
With respect to:      (a) any lawsuits brought in countries in [*], after the Initial Closing Date relating to [*], prior to the
Initial Closing Date, [*] and/or      (b) any lawsuits brought by the [*] relating to [*], prior to the Initial Closing Date, of
[*],      such litigation shall be governed by section 7.2(b) of the Master Restructuring Agreement, provided, that in any such
litigation in which BMS participates, (i) any damages or awards from such proceedings will be determined on a [*] basis (as opposed to applying the [*] in [*] of the applicable Alliance Support Agreement) and (ii) all key litigation
decisions and strategies of BMS and Sanofi (or of the BMS Partner and the Sanofi Partner if a Partnership is involved) shall be mutually agreed by the Parties.   

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

8. BMS shall assign to Sanofi, as of the Initial Closing Date, those tenders in [*] and [*]
listed in  Exhibit D  for which BMS has obtained, on or prior to the Initial Closing Date, the third party consents necessary for the assignment of such tender(s) to Sanofi. Promptly after the Initial Closing Date, BMS shall provide to Sanofi a
written list of such assigned tenders, together with a copy of the consent letter obtained by BMS for the assignment of the tender(s).      For those tenders in [*] and [*], which third party consent for the assignment to Sanofi has not been obtained by BMS as of the Initial Closing Date, BMS shall continue to use commercial reasonably
efforts to obtain such consent as soon as reasonably practicable from and after the Initial Closing Date until [*]. Sanofi shall assume all tenders for which BMS has obtained, on or prior to [*], the consent to assignment to Sanofi. All tenders for
which BMS has not obtained the consent to the assignment to Sanofi on or prior [*] shall not be assigned to Sanofi and shall remain with BMS (each a   Non-Assigned Tender   and, collectively, the   Non-Assigned
Tenders  ).      For those tenders in [*] which have been entered into by [*] under contracts with [*] and [*], [*] shall
use its commercially reasonable efforts to terminate its agreement with [*] with respect to the Irbesartan Products and Clopidogrel Products to be supplied by [*] under said two contracts so that [*] may enter into a new agreement with [*] for such
supply. If [*] is unable to terminate its agreement with [*] (the [*]), such agreement shall remain with [*].      BMS shall be
solely liable for and shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Sanofi and its Affiliates from any [*] and [*]; provided, that Sanofi provides notice to BMS and allows BMS to control the defense and settlement thereof in the same manner as provided
in paragraph 7(i) above for a German Action. For clarity, the preceding sentence shall not apply to claims of personal injury or death based on product liability or similar claims, the indemnification and liability for which shall remain governed by
the Master Restructuring Agreement.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, [*] shall make their commercially reasonable efforts to
supply Products that may be ordered from [*] by a Tender Contractee under the Non-Assigned Tenders and the [*] in accordance with the terms of the applicable tender (as communicated by [*] to [*]), if in the reasonable opinion of [*], such direct
supplies by [*] are legally feasible. If a Tender Contractee under the Non-Assigned Tenders and the [*] refuses to purchase a Product directly from [*] and requires that [*] supply such Product, then [*] will endeavor in good faith to find a
mutually acceptable, lawful solution that will allow for such supply by [*].      9. Should [*] the [*] for a [*] after the
Initial Closing Date in a manner that results in [*]. Specifically, [*] shall apply the [*] first to their [*] and only if [*] would the [*] assume responsibility for the [*]. The information and calculation of the [*] shall be shared with [*] and
agreed to [*] prior to [*]. New [*] and [*] information shall be [*] and adjusted accordingly.      10. The  Responsible
Person  nominated for the Australia Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (  PBS  ) items has obligations regarding disclosure of information according to   

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

applicable Australian legislation. In the event that the transfer from BMS to Sanofi of the  Responsible Person  for the Pharmaceutical Benefits Schedule listing of relevant brands
occurs after the Initial Closing Date, the Parties agree to the following approach to fulfil these obligations:       

BMS shall give authority to an authorized person at Sanofi to disclose information for the relevant brands (Iscover  and DuoCover ) for the
period from the Initial Closing Date until the date on which Sanofi becomes the  Responsible Person  (the   PBS Transition Period  ), given that Sanofi shall have the required sales data, but BMS will have been the
Responsible Person for that period under the PBS. After the PBS Transition Period, Sanofi shall make all required disclosures under the PBS thereafter.      

Sanofi shall give authority to an authorized person at BMS to disclose, as and when required by law, with respect to sales during the period from [*]
through [*], such information and sales data that is required from the Responsible Person during such period, given that BMS shall have the required sales data.      

Copies of the authorities for disclosure shall be provided to the Department of Health and Ageing before the transition date.
        11.  Schedule 2.10  (Inventory Purchase) to the Master Restructuring Agreement is hereby replaced in
its entirety with the  Schedule 2.10  attached hereto.      12.  Schedule 4.2(b)  (Assigned Contracts) to the Master
Restructuring Agreement is hereby replaced in its entirety with the  Schedule 4.2(b)  attached hereto. To the extent that any required consent for the assignment of an Assigned Contract has not been received as of the Initial Closing Date, BMS
shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such required consent and BMS and Sanofi shall work together to negotiate in good faith a commercially reasonable and mutually agreeable arrangement under which Sanofi would obtain the benefits and
assume the obligations thereunder, or under which BMS would enforce for the benefit of Sanofi, with Sanofi assuming BMS s obligations, any and all rights of BMS against a third party thereto.   
  13.  Schedule 5.1(a)  (Marketing Authorizations) to the Master Restructuring Agreement is hereby amended to reflect that the
Duocover marketing authorization in Mexico that had originally been identified as a marketing authorization to be withdrawn will instead be transferred to the Sanofi Affiliate in Mexico.   
  14.  Schedule 7.2(b)  (Intellectual Property Actions) to the Master Restructuring Agreement is hereby replaced in its entirety with
the  Schedule 7.2(b)  attached hereto.      15.  Schedule 9.1  (Pending Claims) to the Master Restructuring Agreement is
hereby replaced in its entirety with the  Schedule 9.1  attached hereto.      16. Except as expressly modified herein,
the Master Restructuring Agreement, including the exhibits schedules thereto, together with the other instruments referred to therein, including the Settlement Agreement, the Alliance Agreements and the Closing Date Agreements, is unchanged and
remains in full force and effect. In the event of a conflict between the terms of the Master Restructuring Agreement and the terms of this letter agreement, the terms of this letter agreement shall govern and control.   

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

17. This letter agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of
the State of New York applicable to contracts executed and performed entirely in that state, without regarding to any principles of conflicts of laws thereof.      18. This letter agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts (including by facsimile or email  PDF  transmission), and by the different Parties in separate counterparts, each of which
when executed shall be deemed to be an original but all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.      [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]   

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

Please acknowledge where indicated below that the foregoing represents your understanding
and agreement with respect to the matters described in this letter agreement.        

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY    

By:  
     
    /s/ Charles Bancroft    
 
  Name:  
     
  Charles Bancroft   
 
  Title:  
     
  Executive VP   Chief Financial Officer   
 
   Acknowledged and Agreed:       

SANOFI    

By:  
     
    /s/ Boisson Gilles    
 
  Name:  
     
  Boisson Gilles   
 
  Title:  
     
  Authorized Representative   
    [Signature Page to Side Letter]   

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

[*][NOTE: TABLE CONTENT IS OMITTED.]   
   SCHEDULE 2.10        INVENTORY PURCHASE        Transferred Inventory   Territories
       PART A        

Countries  Products    
      
     Products    
      
     SKU    
      
     Estimated   
   Future Sales (in unit)    
      
     Estimated Transferred Inventory as of
Initial Closing Date (in units)    
      
     Estimated Unit Cost   
   in local currency (before unit cost mark-up   
   percentage)    
      
     Unit Cost   
   Mark-up   
   percentage    

Estimated Unit Cost in local currency (after unit cost mark- up 
percentage)    
      
     Selling Companies    
      
     Seller s Premises    
      
     Purchasing Companies     

MEXICO Plant 1622  

Bristol-Myers  
  Squibb de  
  Mexico, S. de     R.L. de C.V.   

TOTAL MEXICO Plant   

MEXICO Market 1624  

Bristol-Myers     Squibb de     Mexico, S. de  
  R.L. de C.V.   

TOTAL MEXICO Market   

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

ARGENTINA     1744   

Bristol-Myers     Squibb     Argentina  
  S. R. L   

TOTAL ARGENTINA   

CANADA  

Bristol-Myers     Squibb Canada     Co.   

1728  

TOTAL CANADA   

US  

Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi-  
  Synthelabo  
  Partnership   

1658  

Bulk 1248  

TOTAL US   

PUERTO RICO  

Bristol-Myers     Squibb Puerto     Rico/Sanofi-  
  Synthelabo     Puerto
Rico   

1682  

TOTAL PUERTO RICO   

AUSTRALIA  

Bristol-Myers     Squibb     Australia  
  Pty. Ltd   

1741  

TOTAL AUSTRLIA   

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

SPAIN  

Bristol-Myers Squibb, S.A.U.   

1395  

TOTAL SPAIN   

GREECE  

Bristol-Myers Squibb A.E.   

1597  

TOTAL GREECE   

GERMANY  

Bristol-Myers Squibb GmbH   Co.  
      KGaA   

1332  

TOTAL GERMANY   

ITALY  

Bristol-Myers Squibb S.r.l.   

1340  

TOTAL ITALY  

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

PART B        

Countries Products    
      
     Products    
      
     SKU    
      
     Selling Companies    
      
     Purchasing Companies     

Austria   
      
  Clopidogrel  

Belgium   
      
  Clopidogrel  

Irbesartan  

Denmark   
      
  Clopidogrel  

Finland   
      
  Clopidogrel  

France   
      
  Clopidogrel  

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

Countries Products    
      
     Products    
      
     SKU    
      
     Selling Companies    
      
   Purchasing Companies    

Irbesartan  

Hong Kong   
      
  Clopidogrel  

Ireland   
      
  Clopidogrel  

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

Countries   
   Products    
      
     Products    
      
     SKU    
      
     Selling Companies    
      
   Purchasing Companies    

Irbesartan  

Italy  
      
  Clopidogrel  

The Netherlands  
      
  Clopidogrel  

Irbesartan  

Norway/Iceland  
      
  Clopidogrel  

Portugal  
      
  Clopidogrel  

Irbesartan  

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

Countries Products    
      
     Products    
      
     SKU    
      
     Selling Companies    
      
   Purchasing Companies    

Sweden  
      
  Clopidogrel  

Switzerland  
      
  Clopidogrel  

Irbesartan  

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

Countries Products    
      
     Products    
      
     SKU    
      
     Selling Companies    
      
   Purchasing Companies    

United Kingdom  
      
  Clopidogrel  

Irbesartan  

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

SCHEDULE 4.2(b)    
   ASSIGNED CONTRACTS        

1.  
  Contracts with [*].         

2.  
  Additional [*] contracts.         

a)  
  Industry Support Agreement effective as of November 18, 2010 among [*], [*] and [*].     

b)  
  Confidential Disclosure Agreement dated as of October 8, 2010 among [*], and [*].     

c)  
  Confidential Disclosure Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011 between [*] and [*].     

d)  
  Professional Services Agreement dated March 15, 2012, between [*] and [*] (each, a duly authorized representative of the [*] of the first part, and [*] of the
second part.         

e)  
  Non-Disclosure Agreement dated as of February 8, 2012 between [*] and [*].     

f)  
  Confidential Disclosure Agreement dated as of July 12, 2011 between [*] and [*].     

g)  
  Confidential Disclosure Agreement dated as of February 14, 2012 between [*] and [*].     

h)  
  Confidential Disclosure Agreement dated as of March 1, 2011 between [*] and [*].     

i)  
  Professional Services Agreement dated as of January 10, 2012 between [*] and [*].     

j)  
  Confidential Disclosure Agreement dated as of December 22, 2011 between [*] and [*].     

k)  
  Professional Services Agreement effective as of May 10, 2012 between [*] and [*].     

l)  
  Convention de Non-Divulgation de Renseignements Confidentiels effective as of February 28, 2012 between [*] and [*]     

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

SCHEDULE 7.2(b)    
   INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ACTIONS       [*] [NOTE: TABLE CONTENT IS OMITTED]       Clopidogrel    

Type of Action Brought    
      
     Country/       Jurisdiction/   
   Court    
      
     Parties    
      
     Patents and Expiration   
   Dates, Including       Extensions (in each       case, if
applicable)    
      
     Date       Suit   
   Filed     

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

Irbesartan        

Type of Action Brought    
      
     Country/       Jurisdiction/   
   Court    
      
     Parties    
      
     Patents and Expiration   
   Dates, Including       Extensions (in each       case, if
applicable)    
      
     Date       Suit   
   Filed     

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

SCHEDULE 9.1        PENDING CLAIMS       [*] [NOTE: TABLE CONTENT IS OMITTED]   
  Claims set forth on Schedule 7.2(b) are incorporated by reference in all instances where either Sanofi or BMS or their respective Affiliates (including
the alliance partnerships) face actual or threatened liability.       Clopidogrel    

Type of Action Brought    
      
     Country/       Jurisdiction/   
   Court    
      
     Parties    
      
     Description    
      
     Date       Suit   
   Filed     

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

Irbesartan        

Type of Action Brought    
      
     Country/       Jurisdiction/   
   Court    
      
     Parties    
      
     Description    
      
     Date       Suit   
   Filed     

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

Exhibit A     
   Transfer of Marketing Authorizations       [*] [NOTE: TABLE CONTENT IS OMITTED]       MAs to be transferred to Sanofi    
  The following information represents the best knowledge and intentions of the Parties as of the date of the side letter and is subject to change based on
interactions and feedback from regulators.      There are no ongoing regulatory procedures that impact the proposed submission dates and there are
no clinical trials being conducted for the MAs described below.      The ownership of the Irbesartan and Irbesartan hydrochlorotiazide Company
Core Data Sheets will be transferred to Sanofi at the time the E2B files and Excel sheets from BMS are imported into the Sanofi s Pharmacovigilance database (AWARE) or at the time the approval of the last MAH transfer is approved Worlwide,
whichever comes first.       

Country    
      
     Product name    
      
     MA number (s)    
      
     License type    
      
     General description of HA   
   transfer process    
      
     Fees (USD)    
      
     BMS obligations    
      
     Sanofi obligations    
      
     Expected submission date    
      
     Expected approval date    
      
     Comments     

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

MAs to be withdrawn by BMS    

Country    
      
     Product   
   name    
      
     MA number (s)    
      
     License   
   type    
      
     Actual Submission date    
      
     Approval date       Actual (A)       Expected
(E)     

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

Cease of BMS as Sanofi s regulatory agent    

Country    
      
     Product   
   name    
      
     MA       number       (s)    

License   
   type    
      
     BMS obligations    
      
     Sanofi obligations    
      
     Expected submission   
   date    
      
     Expected effective   
   date     

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

Exhibit B     
   Swiss Share Purchase Agreement    

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

EXECUTION VERSION    
   TRANSFER OF SHARE AGREEMENT       AMONG       SANOFI SA , a company registered under Swiss law, having its head office at 3 route
de Montfleury, 1214 Vernier, Switzerland,      (hereinafter referred to as  SASA ),   
  and       BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB AG , a company
registered under Swiss law, having its head office at Neuhodstrasse 6, 6340 Baar, Swizerland,      (hereinafter referred to as  BMS
AG ),      SASA and BMS AG shall also be hereinafter referred to as  Party  or collectively as the  Parties , as the case
may be.        WITNESSETH         WHEREAS , on September 27, 2012 Sanofi entered into a Master Restructuring Agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb to simplify the overall governance, operating and financial principles of its
alliance with respect to Ibersartan products worldwide (other than Japan, which is not cover by its alliance) and Clopidogrel products worldwide (other than in Japan, which is not covered by its alliance, and the U.S.);   
   WHEREAS , in Switzerland the owner of the marketing authorizations of Irbesartan products and Clopidogrel products is the company
SANOFI/BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB SA (hereinafter referred to as SANOFI/BMS), which its head office at 3route de Montfleury, 1214 Vernier Switzerland;       WHEREAS , SANOFI/BMS is owned by SASA for [*] and BMS AG for [*];       WHEREAS ,
according to the Master Restructuring Agreement, at the closing date on January 1, 2013, SANOFI/BMS shall be owned at 100% by SASA;   

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

NOW THEREFORE,  in consideration of the mutual agreements and undertakings contained herein, the
Parties, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows;       ARTICLE 1       BMS AG shall transfer to SASA [*] of SANOFI/BMS. Each share has a face value of [*].       ARTICLE
2       The price of the transaction is [*]. The payment shall be done on January 1, 2013.   
   ARTICLE 3       The transfer of the property
rights shall be effective on January 1, 2013.       ARTICLE 4       BMS AG confirms and guarantees that the [*] have no pledge, no mortgage or any other obligation, which can prevent the transfer, annihilate or reduce the rights of BMS AG on the [*].   
   ARTICLE 5       On January 1, 2013, [*]
shall resign of the board of Directors of SANOFI/BMS with immediate effect.       ARTICLE 6    
  All disputes arising out of or in connection with this agreement shall be settled by the competent court in Geneva, Switzerland, in accordance with Swiss
Law.   

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the Parties hereto have caused this agreement to be executed by their duly
authorized representatives as of the date first above written.       

Vernier,  

SANOFI SA    

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB AG     

By:  

By:  

Name:  
     
  Fabrizio Guidi  

Name:  

Title:  
     
  Country Manager  

Title:  

By:  

By:  

Name:  
     
  Robert-Henri S chaud,  

Name:  

Title:  
     
  Licence Manager  

Title:  

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

Exhibit C        [*] [NOTE: CONTENT IS OMITTED]      Return Process Proposal for Canada   

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

Exhibit D     
   List of Tender Offers in Italy and Mexico to be assigned by BMS Affiliates to Sanofi Affiliates    
   [*] [NOTE: TABLE CONTENT IS OMITTED]    
   List of Tenders in Italy        

Customer name    
      
   Type of tender   
      
   Entry date   
      
   Tender n.   
      
   Product   
      
   Q.ty   
      
   Last price   
      
   disc. %   
      
   start from   
      
   end to   
      
   decision n.    

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

List of Tenders in Mexico    

*  
  CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     

</EX-10.P>

<EX-10.Q>
 3
 d450621dex10q.htm
 EX-10.Q

EX-10.q 

Exhibit 10q         *Confidential Treatment Requested         This text is a free
translation from the French language and is supplied solely for information purposes.        Only the original version in the
French language has legal force.        SANOFI PHARMA BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB    
   General partnership with a capital of        Euro 50.000        Head office: 54 La Bo tie street 75008 Paris France
       Trade and Companies Register of Paris 408 017 929    
   ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION       January 1, 2013      *CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS
BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

TABLE OF CONTENTS    

ARTICLE 1       FORM OF ORGANIZATION    

5  

ARTICLE 2       COMPANY NAME    

5  

ARTICLE 3       COMPANY PURPOSE    

5  

ARTICLE 4       HEAD OFFICE    

6  

ARTICLE 5       DURATION    

6  

ARTICLE 6       DEFINITIONS    

ARTICLE 6.1   
     
  Defined Terms  

6  

ARTICLE 6.2   
     
  Additional Defined Terms  

7  

ARTICLE 7       CONTRIBUTIONS - SHAREHOLDINGS    

ARTICLE 7.1   
     
  Initial Contributions to the Share Capital  

7  

ARTICLE 7.2   
     
  Shareholdings; Share Capital  

7  

ARTICLE 7.3   
     
  Share Capital Increase  

8  

ARTICLE 7.4   
     
  Share Capital Decrease  

8  

*CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  2   

*CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  3   

*CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  4   

BETWEEN THE UNDERSIGNED:       1. Sanofi Participations, a single-shareholder simplified stock company with a capital of Euro 40.000, having its head office at 54 La Bo tie street 75008 Paris, France, registered with the Trade
and Companies Register of Paris under number 407 571 728 (  Sanofi Partner  ), a subsidiary indirectly and entirely held by Sanofi, a limited company with a capital of Euro 2.681.837.622, having its head office at 54 La Bo tie
street 75008 Paris, France, registered with the Trade and Companies Register of Paris under number 395 030 844 (  Sanofi  ), and   
  2. BMS Investco SAS, a simplified stock company with a capital of Euro 40.000, having its head office at 3, Joseph Monier street, 92500 Rueil Malmaison,
registered with the Trade and Companies Register of Nanterre under number 407 846 195 (  BMS Partner  ), a subsidiary directly and indirectly entirely held by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, registered in Delaware (United States of
America), having its head office at 345 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10154 (  BMS  ).        ARTICLE 1   FORM OF ORGANIZATION
       The Partners have set a general partnership (the   Company  ), governed by the Articles of Association and the Uniform
Commercial Code, and by any other legal provisions or regulations in force. The Company s form can be changed by a decision of the Partners, made by a majority of votes according to the requirements of Article 12.3 of these Articles of
Association, provided that such modification does not incur the establishment of a new legal entity.        ARTICLE 2   COMPANY
NAME        The Company name is SANOFI PHARMA BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB. The name shall be preceded or immediately followed by the words
 soci t  en nom collectif  ( general partnership ) or by the initials  SNC  in all the deeds and documents issued by the Company for third parties. The activity of the Company can be managed, in accordance with
the legal provisions in force, under any other name established by the collective decision of the Partners, by a majority of votes, according to the requirements of Article 12.3 of these Articles of Association.   
    ARTICLE 3   COMPANY PURPOSE     
  The Company shall have as purpose, directly or indirectly, and by any means, particularly by way of leasing its business, license or sublicense of all or
part of the intellectual property rights which it holds or benefits from, (a) to perform any activity related to the development, manufacturing and marketing of Products in Territory A and (b) to conclude, take over and execute all
contracts (business lease management contracts included) and other commitments and to undertake any activity that may be required or appropriate for the company purpose.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  5   

ARTICLE 4   HEAD OFFICE        The Company s head office is located at 54 La Bo tie street 75008 Paris, France. The head office can be transferred to another place in the same county or a bordering county by a simple
decision of the Manager(s), provided however that the head office cannot be transferred to any other place without the unanimous agreement of the Partners.        ARTICLE 5   DURATION        The duration of the Company has been established to 99
years starting June 6, 1997, unless the Partners decide on the anticipated dissolution or extension 24 months at the latest prior to its termination.        ARTICLE 6   DEFINITIONS         

6.1   
    Defined Terms  . When used in the Articles of Association, the following terms shall have the meanings below:     
    Partners   indicates Sanofi Partner and BMS Partner and each of their successors and beneficiaries; being however understood that any
Partner without shareholdings shall be considered as retired from the position as Partner of the Company.        Clopidogrel  
indicates the chemical molecule discovered and patented by Sanofi and known under the SR 25990C code, and whose unregistered international name is Clopidogrel Hydrogenosulphate.        Irbesartan   indicates the chemical molecule discovered and patented by Sanofi known under the SR 47436 code, and whose unregistered international name is Irbesartan.   
    Person   indicates any individual,  partnership , company, including limited company, general partnership, joint venture company,
simplified stock company, joint-venture, association, trust or any other entity or administration or governmental agency or their subdivisions as well as any union or group considered to be a person according to Section 13(d) of US Securities
and Exchange Act of 1934 modified.        Product   indicates a Clopidogrel Product or an Irbesartan Product and
  Products   indicates a Clopidogrel Product and an Irbesartan Product.          Clopidogrel
Product   indicates (i) a product having Clopidogrel as sole active ingredient, in its finished form, marketed under Plavix      and Iscover      trademarks or
any other trademark whose similarity may generate confusion or which replaces one of them or (ii) a product (a   FDC Clopi Identifi   ) containing as sole active ingredients a combination of Clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic
acid, in finished form, traded under Duoplavin     , CoPlavix      and DuoCover      trademarks or
any other trademark whose similarity may generate confusion or which replaces one of them. The term Clopidogrel Product excludes any other fixed-dose combination containing Clopidogrel.   
    Irbesartan Product   indicates (i) a product having Irbesartan as sole active ingredient, in its finished
form, marketed under Aprovel     , Karvea      and Avapro      trademarks or any
other trademark whose similarity may generate confusion or which replaces one of them or (ii) a product (a   FDC Irbe Identifi   ) containing as sole active ingredients a combination of Irbesartan and Hydrochlorothiazide,
in finished form, traded under CoAprovel     , Avalide      and Karvezide      trademarks or
any other trademark whose similarity may generate confusion or which replaces one of them. The term Irbesartan Product excludes any other fixed-dose combination containing Irbesartan.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  6   

Affiliated Company  , in reference to a Person, indicates any other Person controlling,
controlled by, or under the joint control with, this Person;  with specific understanding  that, as regards Sanofi, the definition of Affiliated Company excludes L Or al. For the purpose of this definition,  control 
indicates (a) the direct or indirect power to influence or orientate the management of a Person or to veto any significant decision related to the management of a Person, in each of these cases either by holding of securities or shares with
right of vote, by contract or by any other means, (b) the direct or indirect holding of shares (excluding shares in a private company) representing at least 50% of the voting rights of a Person or (c) holding at least 50% of the shares of
a private company.        Articles of Association   indicates these articles of association, modified, as the case may be.
       Territory A   indicates the countries and geographical areas described in Appendix 1.1 enclosed hereof.   

6.2   
    Additional Defined Terms  . The following additional defined terms shall have the meaning stipulated by the articles listed below:     
   
      ARTICLE 7   CONTRIBUTIONS   SHAREHOLDINGS     

7.2   
    Shareholdings. Share Capital.   The shareholding of Sanofi Partner is 50.1% and the shareholding of BMS Partner is 49.9%. As a result of the aforementioned
contributions and following the conversion of the Share Capital in Euros, the Company s Share Capital amounts to Euro 50.000, allocated to each Partner according to their shareholding. It is divided into 50.000 nominal shares in amount of Euro
1 allocated to each Partner according to their contribution, namely:        - 25.050 shares for Sanofi
Partner,      - 24.950 shares for BMS Partner.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  7   

7.3   
    Share Capital Increase  . The Share Capital can be increased by a collective decision of the Partners made within the general assembly of the Partners by a
majority of votes according to the requirements of Article 12.3 of these Articles of Association following the proposal of the Manager(s).         

7.4   
    Share Capital Decrease  . The Share Capital can be decreased for any reason whatsoever, by any means, particularly by way of proportional share buyback, by
way of decrease of their amount or number, by a collective decision of the Partners made within the general assembly of the Partners or by a majority of votes according to the requirements of Article 12.3 of these Articles of Association.
         ARTICLE 8   REPRESENTATION OF SHARES   INDIVISIBILITY   RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTNERS

8.1   
    Representation of Shares  . The shares cannot be represented by negotiable securities.     

8.2   
    Indivisibility of Shares  . Concerning the Company, the shares are indivisible, as it only has a single holder for each of them.     

8.3   
    Rights and Obligations of the Partners  . Each Partner has a right to the Company s profits and any of its assets, proportional to its number of shares
in the Company. Each Partner is indefinitely and jointly liable for social security taxes. With respect to the relations between them, each of the Partners shall only be liable for social security taxes in proportion to the number of shares held.
         ARTICLE 9   DISTRIBUTION TO PARTNERS        According to the majority requirements of Article 12.2 of these Articles of Association and following the proposal of the Manager(s), the Partners can distribute the distributable profit and decide on the
distribution of the amounts from the reserves which they have access to according to this document.      The Manager(s) can also decide on the
distribution of one or several interim dividends in accordance with the requirements stipulated by the Uniform Commercial Code.      The amounts
whose distribution is decided on shall be allocated to the Partners in proportion to the number of shares held by each of partner.   
    ARTICLE 10 - ACCOUNTING   STATUTORY AUDITORS   CORPORATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   APPROVAL OF ANNUAL ACCOUNTS     

10.1   
      Books and Records  . At any moment for the duration of the articles of association herein, at the expense of the Company, the Manager(s)
shall keep accounting books      
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  8   

and records reflecting exactly and accurately, with a reasonable amount of details, all the Company related issues, including, without limitation, all its revenues, expenses, assets and
liabilities and (ii) a proper accounting internal management system. The Company s accounts shall be kept according to the French accounting regulations. The Company shall not be bound to keep its accounts for a period exceeding ten years
(except for the records which must be kept for a longer period as required by law in the applicable country).       

10.2   
    Place and Right of Inspection  . The Company s accounting books and records shall be kept and preserved at any moment in France in one or several
places approved by the Manager(s). This includes backed up duplicate data being held at off-site locations. Each Partner and its authorized representatives shall have the right to inspect, review, copy and audit the books, records, files, securities
and other documents of the Company at any time as and whenever necessary, for any purpose reasonably related to the shareholding of this Partner. The Company shall not charge any fees to a Partner for any inspection, review, copy or audit, other
than the current costs incurred by the Company.         

10.3   
      Fiscal Year  . The Company s Fiscal Year (the   Fiscal Year  ) shall begin January 1   st    and shall end December 31   st    of each year.      

10.4   
    Statutory Auditors  . The Partners can or must, if compelled by law, according to the majority requirements of Article 12.2 of the Articles of Association,
appoint one or several statutory auditors of one or several internationally renowned accounting companies selected by the Manager(s). Each Statutory Auditor shall be appointed for a period of six (6) Fiscal Years expiring at the closing of the
assembly of Partners held for the review of the accounts of the sixth Fiscal Year.         

10.5   
    Financial Statements  . The Manager(s) shall prepare, according to the laws and regulations in force, an inventory as well as the financial statements of
the Company (balance sheet, profit and loss account and appendix) and a written management report which shall be submitted for the approval of the assembly of Partners within the six (6) months following the closing of each Fiscal Year
(  Assembly of Partners  ). The financial statements, the management report and, as the case may be, the report of statutory auditors, the text of the resolutions submitted to the Assembly of Partners shall be provided to the Partners
at least fifteen (15) days prior to the Assembly of Partners. During the same period, the inventory shall be available for Partners at the Company s head office.     

10.6   
    Bank Accounts  . The Company s funds shall be deposited into an account or accounts in one or several French banking institutions chosen by the
Manager(s).          ARTICLE 11   COMPANY MANAGEMENT     

(a)    
    The Company shall be managed and administered by one or several Managers appointed by the Partners, according to the majority requirements of Article
12.2 of the Articles of Association, from among the candidates designated by Sanofi Partner and chosen from among the Affiliated Companies of Sanofi and, as for the pharmacist
     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  9   

Manager in charge solely from among the employees and/or corporate officers of Sanofi. The terms   Manager   and   Managers,   as used in these articles of
association, shall indicate the individuals and legal entities, as the case may be, Partners or not, appointed according to Article 11.a) hereof.       

(b)    
  If the Company s activities require the appointment of a pharmacist in charge, the Partners shall designate, by simple majority of shares, a Manager, or natural
person, who shall be the pharmacist in charge of the Company and who shall only have the powers required for making decisions basically allowing the compliance with the regulations in force.     

(c)    
  The Manager(s) shall be liable for the daily management of the Company. With respect to the relations with third parties, the Manager(s) shall have the power to draw up
any management documents included in the Company purpose, as defined by Article 3 hereof.         

(d)    
  Each Manager shall be appointed for a one year term renewable by the decision of Partners according to the majority requirements stipulated by Article 12.2 of the
Articles of Association.         

(e)    
  The Manager(s) shall be revocable by the collective decision of Partners made according to the majority requirements stipulated by Article 12.2 of the Articles of
Association. The revocation or resignation of a Manager shall not result in the Company s dissolution.          ARTICLE 12
  DECISIONS OF PARTNERS         

12.1   
    General Assembly   written consultation  . The Partners  will shall be expressed at the choice of the management, either within the general
assembly (hereinafter referred to as the   General Assembly  ) or by means of written consultation. However, the convening of a General Assembly is mandatory (i) if the decisions concerned must be made within the general assembly
according to the law (and particularly the decisions regarding the annual approval of accounts) or to the express provisions of these Articles of Association or (ii) if a Partner requests the convening of a general assembly.

12.2   
    Majority  . Notwithstanding the decisions stipulated by Article 12.3 of the Articles of Association, the decisions submitted to the Partners shall be
validly adopted by one or several Partners representing more than half of the Company s existing shares.         

12.3   
    Unanimity  . The following decisions shall be made by the Partners acting unanimously:     

(a)  
  Any modification of the Articles of Association, including any change of the Company s form of organization as well as any decision for the increase of the share
capital according to Article 7.3 of the Articles of Association;         

(b)  
  The Company s dissolution or liquidation;     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  10   

(c)  
  The decisions for which legal or statutory provisions applicable to the Company require the unanimous consent of Partners;     

(d)  
  Any decision to conclude any agreement (including any transaction within a litigation) involving one or several actual or potential payments to be made by the Company
higher than [*] cumulatively;         

(e)  
  Any decision to conclude a transaction within a litigation by way of which the Company admits having committed an error.     

12.4   
    Convening of the General Assembly  . The General Assembly shall be convened by the Manager(s) through a registered letter with acknowledgement of receipt,
sent to the Partners at least fifteen (15) working days prior to the meeting and containing indications for the day, time, and place, as well as the agenda of the meeting. It can be convened by any Partner in the same conditions. It shall be
validly and immediately convened upon a verbal notice to attend, provided that all the Partners are present or statutorily represented. The General Assembly shall be chaired by the Manager or, in his/her absence, by the Partner convening the
meeting.         

12.5   
    Written consultation  . If the Manager(s) decides/decide to consult the Partners in writing, should such option be open, he (she)/they shall provide them
with the text of the resolutions submitted for their approval, together with all the documents and reports required for their information as well as a bulletin allowing them to express their vote for each resolution proposed. The Statutory Auditor
shall also be informed of this action. The deadline provided to Partners for returning this bulletin to the Company by registered letter with acknowledgement of receipt shall be fifteen (15) working days as of the sending date of the
consultation. The vote shall be expressed by yes or no by the partners. Any partner who has not responded within the deadline shall be considered as having voted  no  for purposes of this section.     
    ARTICLE 13   TRANSFER OF SHARES         

13.1   
    Absence of Transfer  . No share of the Company shall be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or encumbered, entirely or partially, directly or indirectly,
by operation of law or otherwise (including, but without being limited to, by merger or distribution) (such sale, assignment, transfer, pledge or guarantee hereinafter being referred to as   Transfer  ), without the prior unanimous
agreement of the Partners (which shall not be unreasonably rejected). Unless otherwise agreed by the Partners, any Transfer of any shareholding in violation of Article 13 hereof shall be considered null and void.     

13.2   
    New Partners  . No Person shall become a Partner in the sense and for the purposes hereof, unless such Person is ready to expressly undertake and accept to
be bound by all the provisions of the Articles of Association. All the costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the Company and related to a Transfer and, as the case may be, to the admission of a Person as Partner according to the requirements
herein shall be paid by the assignor.     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  11   

13.3   
    Effective Date of Transfer  . Any Transfer according to Article 13 hereof shall be made in writing and shall be binding on the Company only following its
notification to the latter or following its approval in a deed drawn by a notary in accordance with the requirements of article 1690 of the Civil Code, or upon the submission of an original copy of the assignment deed at the head office against the
delivery by the Manager(s) of a certification for such deposit. Such Transfer shall only be binding on third parties following the completion of these formalities and publication of this Transfer into the relevant Trade and Companies Register.
         ARTICLE 14   DISSOLUTION         

14.1   
    Dissolution  . The Company shall be dissolved and its activity shall be liquidated in case of occurrence of any of the events below:

(i)  
  The decision of Partners to dissolve the Company according to the majority requirements of Article 12.3;     

(ii)  
  The expiry of the Company duration according to Article 5 hereof.         

14.2   
    Effects of Dissolution  . In all cases of dissolution of the Company, the Company s activity shall be terminated and consequently the Company shall be
dissolved as soon as possible and the following operations shall be performed:         

(a)  
  The liquidator appointed by Sanofi Partner shall draw up a report of the Company s assets and liabilities remaining upon the dissolution date and a copy of this
report shall be provided to each Partner;         

(b)  
  The net liquidation product, following the extinguishment of liabilities and social security taxes, shall be used to refund the current accounts of Partners, if any, as
well as the amount of the nominal value of their shares; and         

(c)  
  The balance, if any, constituting the liquidation surplus, shall be distributed to the Partners in proportion to their number of shares in the Company and, if the
liquidation incurs losses, they shall be borne by the Partners in the same proportion.         

14.3   
    Liquidation Provisions  . Sanofi Partner shall appoint the liquidator.          ARTICLE 15   MISCELLANEOUS         

15.1   
    Fiscal Regime  . The Company shall not opt for corporate tax liability.     

15.2   
      Litigations  . These Articles of Association as well as related rights and obligations shall be governed by the French law. In case of
litigations, claims, disputes or disagreements (a   Dispute  ) resulting from or related to these Articles of Association, including any issue regarding the validity, existence and termination of these Articles of Association, the
Partners shall first try to settle their Dispute by negotiation. This process of negotiation shall be considered open when one of the Partners sends a notification in writing (a   Notification of Dispute  ) to the other Partner.
Should a Dispute submitted to the negotiation procedure, according to the aforementioned      
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  12   

requirements, not be definitively settled within a period of 30 days as of the reception by one of the Partners of the Notification of Dispute, the Dispute shall be deferred to a mediation
procedure in accordance with the Mediation Regulations of the International Chamber of Commerce (the   CCI  ). The mediation court shall be composed of three mediators. Each Partner shall appoint a mediator. The two mediators
appointed shall appoint the president of the mediation court. If one of the Partners does not appoint a mediator in the petition for mediation or within the 30 days upon the reception of a notification in writing stating the appointment of a
mediator by the other Partner, the aforementioned mediator shall be appointed by the CCI. Should the two mediators appointed by the Partners fail to reach an agreement on the appointment of a third mediator within a period of 30 days as of the
appointment of the second mediator, the third mediator shall be appointed by the CCI. The mediation procedure shall be held in Paris, France and the proceedings shall be conducted in English. Notwithstanding any contrary clause in the Mediation
Regulations of the International Chamber of Commerce, each Partner shall bear its own costs and charges related to the aforementioned mediation procedure and all related procedures, legal fees included. Each Partner shall continue to fulfill its
obligations according to the Articles of Association and the provisions of the Articles of Association shall be further applied until the settlement of this Dispute.       

15.3   
    Publications  . The Partners shall grant all powers to the holder of an original copy of these Articles of Association in order to perform all the publicity
formalities required.         

15.4   
    Internal Regulations  . The Articles of Association shall be completed and clarified by internal regulations which can only be modified by common consent of
the Partners.     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  13   

APPENDIX 1.1        TERRITORY A       Clopidogrel Product and Irbesartan product:   

-  
  Germany,     

-  
  Belgium,     

-  
  Spain,     

-  
  Greece,     

-  
  Italy,     

-  
  Netherlands,     

-  
  Portugal,     

-  
  Switzerland.        Clopidogrel Product only:

-  
  Austria,     

-  
  Cyprus,     

-  
  South Korea,     

-  
  Denmark,     

-  
  Finland,     

-  
  Hong-Kong,     

-  
  Iceland,     

-  
  Israel,     

-  
  Ireland,     

-  
  Norway,     

-  
  Sweden,     

-  
  Taiwan,     

-  
  France (metropolitan).        For Irbesartan only:

-  
  France (DOMTOM included)     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

</EX-10.Q>

<EX-10.R>
 4
 d450621dex10r.htm
 EX-10.R

EX-10.r 

Exhibit 10r         *Confidential Treatment Requested         This text is a free
translation from the French language and is supplied solely for information purposes.        Only the original version in the
French language has legal force.            
   SANOFI PHARMA BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB        General Partnership With a Capital of        50.000 Euro    
   Head Office: 54 La Bo tie Street 75008 Paris France        Trade and Companies Register of Paris 408 017 929        INTERNAL REGULATIONS
      January 1, 2013       
      *CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED.
CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

*CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

BETWEEN THE UNDERSIGNED:    

2.  
  BMS Investco SAS, a simplified stock company with a capital of 40.000 Euro, having its Head Office at 3, Joseph Monier Street, 92500 Rueil Malmaison, registered with
the Trade and Companies Register of Nanterre under number 407 846 195 (  BMS Partner  ), a subsidiary directly and indirectly entirely held by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, registered in Delaware (United States of America), having its
Head Office at 345 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10154 (  BMS  ).          INTRODUCTION  
     The Partners have formed a general partnership Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb (the   Company  ).
     The purpose of the Company is to allow the modification of the methods of joint development and marketing by the two Partners
of the Company, for the pharmaceutical products based on the two molecules Irbesartan and Clopidogrel which were discovered and patented by Sanofi and developed together with BMS. The Partners have carried out a new form of the Company s
Articles of Association and of their Agreements specifically to enable the performance of this activity by way of lease management provided under the Company to another Company of the Sanofi group.   
  The Partners have agreed, according to the terms of Article 15.4 of the Company s Articles of Association, to modify the existing
internal regulations for the purpose of completing and detailing the Articles of Association to reflect the mutually agreed upon modifications. The Modified Internal Regulations, (hereinafter the   Internal Regulations  ), are set
forth in detail below.        ARTICLE 1: DEFINITIONS         

1.1   
    Defined Terms  . When used in the Internal Regulations, the following terms shall have the meanings below:     
    Clopidogrel License Agreement  . The License Agreement for Intellectual Property and Delivery of Clopidogrel dated June 6, 1997, as
last amended on the date hereof (or as further amended according to Article 2.2. hereof), between the Company and Sanofi regarding the license of certain patents, trademarks and know-how for Clopidogrel and Clopidogrel Products of Sanofi to the
Company provided that Sanofi is paid the Development Fee (as these terms are defined within this Amended Agreement).   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      1   

Know-How License Agreement  . The License Agreement for Product Know-How dated June 6,
1997, as last amended on the date hereof (or as further amended according to Article 2.2. hereof), between the Company, Sanofi and BMS pursuant to the Development Agreement, the use of company names by the Company and the development of Irbesartan
and Clopidogrel as of June 6, 1997, provided that a Know-How Fee is paid (as this term is defined within this Amended Agreement).   
    Irbesartan License Agreement  . The License Agreement for Intellectual Property dated June 6, 1997, as last amended on the date
hereof (or as further amended according to article 2.2. hereof), between the Company and Sanofi regarding the license of certain patents, trademarks and know-how for Irbesartan and Irbesartan Products of Sanofi to the Company, provided that Sanofi
is paid the Development Fee (as this term is defined thereof).        Partners  . The Sanofi Partner and BMS Partner and each of
their successors and beneficiaries; being however understood that any Partner without shareholdings shall be considered as retired from its position as Partner of the Company.        Clopidogrel  . The chemical molecule discovered and patented by Sanofi and known under the SR 25990C code, whose unregistered international name is Clopidogrel Hydrogenosulphate.
       Lease Management Agreement  . The business lease management agreement concluded January 1, 2013 between the Company and
SWIND.        Termination Date  . December 31, 2018.        Manager  . The person appointed, according to the law and to the Company s articles of association, as manager of the Company, while specifying that on the date hereof the manager is
Sanofi Partner.        Irbesartan  . The chemical molecule discovered and patented by Sanofi known under the SR 47436 code, whose
unregistered international name is Irbesartan.        Person  . Any individual,  partnership , company, including limited
company, general partnership, joint venture company, simplified stock company,  joint-venture , association, trust or any other entity or administration or governmental agency or their subdivisions as well as any union or group considered to be
a person according to Section 13(d) of US Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 modified.        Product  . The Clopidogrel
Product or a Irbesartan Product and   Products   indicates a Clopidogrel Product and a Irbesartan Product.   
    Clopidogrel Product  . (i) a product having Clopidogrel as sole active ingredient, in its finished form,
marketed under Plavix      and Iscover      trademarks or any other trademark whose similarity may generate confusion or which replaces one of them or (ii) a product (a   FDC Clopi
Identifi   ) containing as sole active ingredients a combination of Clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid, in finished form, traded under Duoplavin     , CoPlavix      and DuoCover      trademarks or any other trademark whose similarity may generate confusion or which replaces one of them. The term
Clopidogrel Product excludes any other fixed-dose combination containing Clopidogrel.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      2   

Irbesartan Product  . (i) a product having Irbesartan as sole
active ingredient, in its finished form, marketed under Aprovel     , Karvea      and Avapro      trademarks or any other trademark whose similarity may generate confusion or which replaces one of them or (ii) a product (a   FDC Irbe
Identifi   ) containing as sole active ingredients a combination of Irbesartan and Hydrochlorothiazide, in finished form, traded under CoAprovel     , Avalide      and Karvezide      trademarks or any other trademark whose similarity may generate confusion or which replaces one of them. The term
Irbesartan Product excludes any other fixed-dose combination containing Irbesartan.        Affiliated Company  . In reference to a
Person, indicates any other Person controlling, controlled by, or under the joint control with, this Person;  being however understood  that, as regards Sanofi, the definition of Affiliated Company excludes L Oreal. For the purpose of this
definition,  control  indicates (i) the direct or indirect power to orientate the management of a Person or to veto any significant decision related to the management of a Person, in each of these cases either by holding of securities
or shares with right of vote, by contract or by any other means, (ii) the direct or indirect holding of shares (excluding shares in a private company) representing at least 50% of the voting rights of a Person or (iii) holding at least 50%
of the shares of a private company.        Articles of Association  . The Company s updated Articles of Association effective
as of January 1, 2013.        SWIND  . The company Sanofi Winthrop Industry, a French limited liability company having its
Head Office at 20, Raymond Aron Avenue, 92160 Antony, registered with the Trade and Companies Register of Nanterre under number 775 662 257.   
    Territory A  . The countries and geographical areas described in Appendix 1.1 enclosed hereof.   

1.2   
    Additional Defined Terms  . The following additional defined terms shall have the meaning stipulated by the articles listed below:     

Defined Term     
      
    Definition Article     

BMS Partner  
      
  Introduction   
 
  Sanofi Partner  
      
  Introduction   
 
  BMS  
      
  Introduction   
 
  CCI  
      
  4.4   
 
  Dispute  
      
  4.4   
 
  Notifications  
      
  4.1   
 
  Dispute Notification  
      
  4.4   
 
  Internal Regulations  
      
  Introduction   
 
  Sanofi  
      
  Introduction   
 
  Company  
      
  Introduction   
 
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      3   

ARTICLE 2: POWERS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE MANAGER(S)     

2.1   
    Powers  . The Manager(s) shall have all powers to perform all the management deeds included in the Company purpose, subject to the decisions mentioned in
article 2.2 hereafter. The Manager(s) shall ensure that any contract mentioned in articles 2.2(d) and 2.2(e) hereafter concluded by the Company expressly stipulate that BMS Partner benefits from a stipulation for third parties allowing it to use for
and on behalf of the Company the rights which the latter benefits from according to this agreement.         

2.2   
    Limitation of powers  . The Manager(s) decisions set forth below shall not be valid unless or until they are authorized in writing and in advance by a BMS
Partner:         

(a)  
  To modify these Internal Rules of the Company;         

(b)  
  To request the initiation of proceedings for conciliation (according to Article L. 611-4 of the Commercial Code), for safeguard (according to Book VI of Title II of the
Commercial Code) or the appointment of an ad-hoc agent (according to Article L. 611-3 of the Commercial Code), on behalf of the Company or one of its subsidiaries;     

(c)  
  To proceed to or to submit for the approval of partners any capital increase or issue of securities by the Company;     

(d)  
  To modify or to terminate the Clopidogrel License Agreement, the Irbesartan License Agreement, the Know-How License Agreement or the Lease Management Agreement;

(e)  
  To conclude or wind-up any Agreement (including any transaction within a litigation) involving one or several actual or potential payments by the Company, higher than
[*] cumulatively;         

(f)  
  To implement any decision covered by Articles 12.3 (a), (b), (c) and (e) of the Articles of Association;     

(g)  
  To conclude or wind-up any transaction within a litigation by way of which the Company admits having committed an error or wrongdoing.     

2.3   
    Actions for Patents and Trademarks  . The Manager(s) shall be able to initiate proceedings or to act on behalf of the Company (i) against a third party
for the violation of any patent or trademark licensed to the Company, (ii) in defense, against a legal action started by a third party against the Company, Sanofi Partner or one of their Affiliated Companies, for the counterfeit of a patent
and/or a trademark regarding Irbesartan, Clopidogrel or one of the two Products in Territory A or (iii) in defense against any legal action commenced by a third party for the invalidity or the nullity of any patent whatsoever registered in the
name of the Company.     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      4   

ARTICLE 3: DISSOLUTION     

3.1   
    Dissolution  . Until the Termination Date, Sanofi Partner and BMS Partner undertake not to participate to any operation, not to make any decision and not to
propose any modification of their Articles of Association or any decision that may have as purpose or effect their voluntary dissolution for any reason whatsoever, without having the prior agreement in writing of the other Partner.

3.2   
    Product Sale Withdrawal  . Should a Product be withdrawn from sale in Territory A, the Partners shall modify the Company s Articles of Association in
order to remove any reference to the development, purchase, sale, marketing, advertising or trading of this Product.         

3.3   
    Effects of Dissolution  . Notwithstanding the effects of dissolution detailed in the Articles of Association, in case of dissolution of the Company,

(a)  
  The Company shall assign or license to a Person mutually acceptable by the two Partners all the remaining assets of the Company as well as the rights and obligations it
has by way of the Clopidogrel License Agreement, Irbesartan License Agreement, and the Know-How License Agreement, except for the rights to company names and trademarks, containing the terms:   Sanofi  ,   BMS   or
  Bristol-Myers Squibb           

(b)  
  The products of such sale shall be allocated as set forth below and in the following order of priority:     

(i)  
  For the payment of debts and liabilities of the Company and liquidation costs;     

(ii)  
  The balance, if any, for the impoundment of the amounts which the Partners shall consider reasonably necessary for the contingent, non-liquidated or unforeseen
liabilities or for the obligations of the Company or of the Partners issued from or related to the Company. By mutual agreement of the Partners, such amounts can be deposited in a bank chosen by them and authorized to act as impoundment for the
withdrawals intended to cover the aforementioned debts and obligations         

and, upon the expiry of the period determined by the Partners, to distribute the balance as stipulated in paragraph (iii) hereafter; and     

(iii)  
  The balance, if any, shall be distributed to the Partners in proportion to their shareholdings.          ARTICLE 4: MISCELLANEOUS         

4.1   
    Notifications  . All the notifications, complaints, requests, formal demands and other communications (hereinafter collectively referred to as the
  Notifications  ) shall be made in writing and shall be delivered in person, by hand, by registered letter, by mail with acknowledgement of receipt, to the Persons and addresses below:     
  For the Company, at:      Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb      54 La Bo tie street   
  75008 Paris, France   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      5   

To: Legal Director      Fax: (33 1) 01.53.77.40.85      To:  Vice President, Alliance Management 
     For BMS Partner, at:      BMS Investco S.A.S      France   
  3, Joseph Monier Street      92500 Rueil Malmaison      To: President   
  And a copy at:   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company      Route 206   Province Line Road      Princeton, NJ 08543 USA   
  To:  Alliance Manager       and:      Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP   
  7 World Trade Center      250 Greenwich Street      New York, New York 10007 USA   
  To: [omitted]   
  For Sanofi Partner, at:      Sanofi      54 La Bo tie Street   
  75008 Paris, France      To:  Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel et Vice President, Alliances   Partnerships       and a copy to:      Weil, Gotshal   Manges   
  2, Baume Street   
  75008 Paris      To:
[omitted]      Each of the Partners can designate another recipient (and/or change its address) for the Notifications, by way of a
Notification made according to this article. All the Notifications made according to this article shall be considered as being sent upon the date of their reception when delivered in person, by hand, or ten (10) working days following the
delivery by registered mail or with acknowledgement of receipt.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      6   

4.2   
    Governing law  . These Internal Regulations as well as the related rights and obligations shall be governed by the French law.     

4.3   
    Execution of a Writ  . Each of the Partners acknowledges that the allocation of damages shall not stand for satisfactory rehabilitation in case of
non-fulfillment of one of the obligations stipulated herein. Consequently, the execution of a writ for these obligations shall be required to the maximum extent permitted by law.     

4.4   
    Litigations  . In case of litigations, claims, disputes or disagreements (a   Dispute  ) resulting from or related to these Internal Rules,
including any issue regarding the validity, existence and termination of these Internal Rules, the Partners shall first try to settle their Dispute by negotiation. This process of negotiation shall be considered open when one of the Partners sends a
notification in writing (a   Notification of Dispute  ) to the other Partner. Should a Dispute submitted to the negotiation procedure according to the aforementioned requirements not be definitively settled within a period of 30 days
upon the reception by one of the Partners of the Notification of Dispute, the Dispute shall be deferred to a mediation procedure in accordance with the Mediation Regulations of the International Chamber of Commerce (the   CCI  ). The
mediation court shall be composed of three mediators. Each Partner shall appoint a mediator. The two mediators appointed shall appoint the president of the mediation court. If one of the Partners does not appoint a mediator in the petition for
mediation or within the 30 days upon the reception of a notification in writing stating the appointment of a mediator by the other Partner, the aforementioned mediator shall be appointed by the CCI. Should the two mediators appointed by the Partners
fail to reach an agreement on the appointment of a third mediator within a period of 30 days upon the appointment of the second mediator, the third mediator shall be appointed by the CCI. The mediation procedure shall be held in Paris, France and
the proceedings shall be conducted in English. Notwithstanding any contrary clause in the Mediation Regulations of the International Chamber of Commerce, each Partner shall bear its own costs and charges related to the aforementioned mediation
procedure and all related procedures, legal fees included. Each Partner shall continue to fulfill its obligations according to the Internal Regulations and the provisions of the Internal Regulations shall be further applied until the settlement of
this Dispute.         

4.5   
    Titles  . All titles and subtitles of the Internal Regulations are for convenience only and none of them shall affect the meaning or influence the
interpretation thereof.         

4.6   
    Relative Effect  . The Internal Regulations are binding upon and benefit to the Partners and their successors and authorized assignees and no express or
implicit provision shall be construed as granting rights, advantages or remedies to any third parties, of any nature whatsoever. Therefore, the Internal Regulations shall no longer bind and benefit to any Partner that would no longer hold at least a
share in the Company, as of the date when it would no longer hold at least a share in the Company.     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      7   

4.7   
    Divisibility  . If one of the stipulations of the Internal Regulations is null, illegal or incompatible with the legal or statutory provisions, the other
stipulations of the Internal Regulations shall remain in full force and effect as far as the economic and legal substance of the operations covered herein is not unfavorably affected for any of the Partners. Since one stipulation of the Internal
Regulations is determined as null, illegal or incompatible with legal or statutory provisions, or impossible to execute, the Partners undertake to negotiate in good faith the modification of Internal Regulations in order to reflect as faithfully as
possible the original intention of the Partners so as the operations stipulated herein can be performed as far as possible according to the initial plan.         

4.8   
    Transfer  . This agreement shall not be transferred by one of the Partners without the authorization of the other Partner.     

4.9   
    Agreements  . All the agreements or authorizations of the deeds or issues required by the Internal Regulations shall be made in writing and shall concern
exclusively the specific deed or issue for which the agreement or authorization is given, and shall not relieve any of the Partners from the obligation to obtain, as the case may be, the agreement or authorization required by the Internal
Regulations for another deed or issue.         

4.10   
    Entire Agreement  . As the Internal Regulations and the Articles of Association express the entire agreement of the Partners regarding their purpose, they
annul and replace any prior verbal or written agreements between the Partners and their Affiliated Companies, concerning this purpose and not stipulated herein or in the Articles of Association     

4.11   
    Waivers and Modifications  . No modification of the Internal Regulations shall be valid unless it is subject to a written document signed by the two
Partners and expressly refers to the Internal Regulations or to the Articles of Association, mentioning the intention of Partners to modify the Internal Regulations or the Articles of Association. Any waiver of any stipulations hereof shall be made
in a written document signed by the interested Partner, provided that no waiver shall be construed as a future waiver or a waiver of the benefit of any other requirements or stipulations hereof.     

4.12   
    Exclusion of Creditors  . The provisions of the Internal Regulations are presumed to govern the relations between Partners and the relations between
Partners and the Company. The Internal Regulations have not been presumed to benefit to non- Partner creditors and no right shall be granted to non-Partner creditors by way of the provisions hereof.     

4.13   
    Duplicate  . The Internal Regulations can be signed in several copies, each of them being an original copy, but the whole shall constitute a unique
instrument.         

4.14   
    Effective Date  . The Internal Regulations, signed today, shall enter into force January 1, 2013.     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      8   

4.15   
    Applicable Language  . The Partners acknowledge that the Internal Regulations can be translated into English. The Partners confirm that the French version
of the Internal Regulations shall prevail.         

4.16   
    Capitalized Terms  . The capitalized terms which are not defined by these Internal Regulations shall have the meaning provided in the Articles of
Association.     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      9   

Executed this 1st day of January, 2013.   

SANOFI PARTICIPATIONS    

By:  
     
    /s/ Gilles Boisson    

Gilles Boisson  
    Authorized Representative      

BMS INVESTCO S.A.S.    

By:  
     
    /s/ Jean-Christophe Barland    

Jean-Christophe Barland  
    CEO      
 
    [Signature Page to Internal Regulations]    
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

APPENDIX 1.1       Clopidogrel Product and Irbesartan product:       

-  
  Germany,     

-  
  Belgium,     

-  
  Spain,     

-  
  Greece,     

-  
  Italy,     

-  
  Netherlands,     

-  
  Portugal,     

-  
  Switzerland.        Clopidogrel Product only:

-  
  Austria,     

-  
  South Korea,     

-  
  Cyprus,     

-  
  Denmark,     

-  
  Finland,     

-  
  Hong-Kong,     

-  
  Iceland,     

-  
  Israel,     

-  
  Ireland,     

-  
  Norway,     

-  
  Sweden,     

-  
  Taiwan,     

-  
  France (metropolitan).        For Irbesartan only:

-  
  France (DOMTOM included)     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

</EX-10.R>

<EX-10.S>
 5
 d450621dex10s.htm
 EX-10.S

EX-10.s 

Exhibit 10s         *Confidential Treatment Requested         AMENDMENT    
   TO THE    
   PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT        OF        BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB SANOFI PHARMACEUTICALS HOLDING    
   PARTNERSHIP       This Amendment (this   Amendment  ), dated as of January 1, 2013 (the   Effective Date  ) to the Partnership Agreement (the   Partnership Agreement  ) of
Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership (  JVB  ), dated as of January 1, 1997, by and between sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC (as successor-in-interest to Sanofi Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the   Sanofi
Partner  ) and Bristol-Myers Squibb Investco, L.L.C. (or any successor-in-interest, the   BMS Partner   and together with the Sanofi Partner, the   Parties   and, individually, each a   Party  ).
Except as otherwise noted, any capitalized terms not herein defined shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Partnership Agreement.      WHEREAS, pursuant to a master restructuring agreement (  Master Agreement  ), dated as of September 27, 2012 by and between Sanofi (  Sanofi  ) and Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company (  BMS  ), Sanofi and BMS have agreed to simplify the overall governance, operating and financial principles of their alliance with respect to (i) Irbesartan Products worldwide (other than in Japan, which is not in their
alliance) and (ii) Clopidogrel Products worldwide (other than in Japan, which is not in their alliance, and in the United States) (the   Restructuring        WHEREAS, as part of the Restructuring, the Parties wish to amend certain provisions of the Partnership Agreement to reflect the transfer to sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC of all of JVB s rights and
obligations with respect to the distribution and commercialization of the Products (other than with respect to Clopidogrel Products in the United States of America) in Territory B1 (as defined in the Master Agreement) and sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC
shall be responsible for all decisions relating to distribution and commercialization of the Products in Territory B1 as of the Effective Date; and      WHEREAS, the Restructuring is not intended to change the overall governance, operating, and financial principles of the alliance with respect to Clopidogrel or Clopidogrel Products in the United States of
America other than as set forth herein.      NOW THEREFORE, the Parties, in consideration of the foregoing and other good and
valuable consideration (the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged by each of the Parties) hereby agree by mutual consent:       

1.  
   Amendments . The Parties hereby agree that the Partnership Agreement shall be amended as of the Effective Date to provide the following:     
  *CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

a.  
  All countries other than the United States of America shall no longer be included within the definition of  Territory B  in the Partnership Agreement and, as
such, Section 1.01 of the Partnership Agreement shall be amended to remove Territory B1 (as defined in the Master Agreement) and all references to  Territory B  throughout the Partnership Agreement shall mean solely the United States
of America (which, in any event, shall not include Irbesartan in the United States of America).         

b.  
  The definition of  Product  or  Products  in Section 1.01 of the Partnership Agreement, and all references to  Product  throughout
the Partnership Agreement, shall mean Clopidogrel and the Clopidogrel Products only. All references to  Irbesartan  or  Irbesartan Products  or  Irbesartan Products in the United States of America  throughout the
Partnership Agreement shall be deleted in their entirety, as the purpose of JVB shall be the development, manufacturing, commercialization and sale of the Clopidogrel Product in the United States of America (which includes Puerto Rico).

c.  
  Section 2.03 of the Partnership Agreement shall be amended and restated in its entirety as follows:     
   Section 2.03.  Purpose . The businesses and purposes of the Partnership shall be (a) to carry on all activities related
to the development, manufacturing, commercialization and sale of the Clopidogrel Products in Territory B (which, for the avoidance of doubt, means the United States of America (which includes Puerto Rico), and (b) to enter into, make and
perform all such contracts and other undertakings, and to engage in all such activities and transactions, as may be necessary or desirable to conduct such businesses and activities.    

d.  
  A new Section 6.09 shall be added to the Partnership Agreement to provide the following:     
   Section 6.09.  Tax Matters Following Termination . Following the termination of the Partnership Agreement, the [*] shall
retain the responsibilities of Tax Matters partner with respect to all tax periods ending on or prior to the date of such termination. In connection therewith, the [*] shall: (i) promptly provide the [*] with copies of notices or other
materials from, and inform the [*] of discussions with, U.S. federal and state tax authorities; (ii) provide the [*] with notice of all scheduled administrative proceedings, including, without limitation, meetings with agents of such tax
authorities, technical advice, conferences and appellate hearings, in each case promptly after receiving notice of the scheduling of such proceedings and (ii) not agree to any settlement agreement with such tax authority with respect to
JVB-related items of income, gain, loss or deduction without the [*] prior written consent;  provided , that the [*] may request extensions to file all tax returns or statements without the [*] prior written consent (and the [*] shall provide
the [*] with notice of any such requests).   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  2   

e.  
  The first sentence of Section 10.2(b) of the Partnership Agreement shall be deleted in its entirety.     

f.  
  Section 12.01 of the Partnership Agreement shall be amended and restated in its entirety as follows:     
   Section 12.01.  Notices . All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder (collectively,
  Notices  ) shall be in writing, shall be in the English language, and shall be given or made by delivery in person, by courier services, by facsimile (with receipt confirmed) or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested, with postage prepaid), to the respective Persons at the following addresses:      If to the Partnership
or the BMS Partner, to:      Bristol-Myers Squibb Investco, L.L.C.   
  c/o Bristol-Myers Squibb Company   
  Route 206   Province Line Road   
  Princeton, NJ 08543-4000 USA      Attention: Sanofi Alliance Manager      with a copy (which shall not
constitute notice), to:      Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP   
  7 World Trade Center      250 Greenwich Street      New York, NY 10007 USA   
  Attn: [omitted]      Email: [omitted]      and   
  If to the Sanofi Partner, to:      sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC      55 Corporate Drive   
  Bridgewater, NJ 08807 USA      Attn: [omitted]      Facsimile: (908) 981-5705   
  with a copy (which shall not constitute notice), to:   
  sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC      55 Corporate Drive      Bridgewater, NJ 08807 USA   
  Attn: [omitted]      Facsimile: (908) 981-7833   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  3   

and   
  Weil, Gotshal   Manges LLP   
  767 Fifth Avenue      New York, NY 10153 USA      Attn: [omitted]   
  Facsimile: (212) 310-8007      Email: [omitted]       

2.  
   Remainder of the Agreement . Except as explicitly amended hereby, other provisions of the Partnership Agreement (as otherwise amended, modified, supplemented or
restated prior to the Effective Date) shall remain unchanged.         

3.  
   Representations and Warranties.  Each of the Parties hereto represents and warrants to each other as of the date hereof that (a) it has the requisite
authority and power to enter into this Amendment and (b) the execution and delivery of this Amendment has been duly authorized and constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms.

4.  
   Counterparts . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall
constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract.         

5.  
   Successors and Assigns . The terms of this Agreement and the respective rights and obligations of the Parties hereunder shall be binding upon, and inure to the
benefit of, their respective successors and assigns.        [ Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank ]
  
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  4   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed as of the date first written
above.        

SANOFI-AVENTIS U.S. LLC    

By:  
     
    /s/ T. Saugier    

Name: T. Saugier     Title:
Authorized representative    

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB INVESTCO, L.L.C.    

By:  
     
    /s/ Katherine Kelly    

Name: Katherine Kelly     Title:
Secretary    
 
   [ Signature Page to Territory B Partnership Agreement Amendment ]   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

</EX-10.S>

<EX-10.T>
 6
 d450621dex10t.htm
 EX-10.T

EX-10.t 

Exhibit 10t         Confidential Treatment Requested         TERMINATION AGREEMENT
      This Termination Agreement (the   Agreement  ), is made as of January 1, 2013, by and between,
Sanofi, a French  soci t  anonyme  (  Sanofi  ), and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a Delaware corporation (  BMS   and together with Sanofi, the   Parties   and, individually, each a
  Party  ) and relates to (i) the Territory A Alliance Support Agreement (the   JVA Support Agreement  ), dated as of January 1, 1997, by and between Sanofi and BMS, as amended by that certain Amendment
No. 1, dated of October 17, 2001 (  Amendment No. 1  ), Amendment, dated October 2, 2007 (  Amendment No. 2  ) and Amendment No. 3, dated April 10, 2012 (  Amendment
No. 3   and together with, Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 2, the   Amendments  ), (ii) that certain General Side Letter, dated January 2, 1997, from BMS to Sanofi (  General Side
Letter  ) and (iii) that certain Side Letter, dated January 2, 1997, from BMS to Sanofi regarding transfer pricing (  Side Letter   and together with the General Side Letter, the   Side Letters  ). Any
capitalized terms not herein defined shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the JVA Support Agreement.      WHEREAS, Sanofi
and BMS have formed, through their indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, Sanofi Pharma Bristol Myers Squibb, a  soci t  en nom colletif  organized under the laws of the French Republic (  JVA     
  WHEREAS, pursuant to a master restructuring agreement (  Master Agreement  ), dated as of September 27, 2012 by and
between Sanofi and BMS, Sanofi and BMS have agreed to simplify the overall governance, operating and financial principles of their alliance with respect to (i) Irbesartan Products worldwide (other than in Japan, which is not in their alliance)
and (ii) Clopidogrel Products worldwide (other than in Japan, which is not in their alliance, and in the United States) (the   Restructuring        WHEREAS, in connection with the Restructuring of JVA, Sanofi and BMS have agreed to terminate the JVA Support Agreement and the Amendments and to terminate the Side Letters solely as they relate to
Territory A; and      WHEREAS, on the Termination Date, Sanofi shall assume control of the distribution and commercialization of
the Products in all of Territory A and shall be responsible for all decisions relating to distribution and commercialization and the local co-promotion and co-marketing Affiliates.   
  NOW THEREFORE, the Parties, in consideration of the foregoing and other good and valuable consideration (the receipt and sufficiency of
which are hereby acknowledge by each of the Parties) hereby agree by mutual consent:   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

1.  
   Termination and Release . The Parties hereby agree and acknowledge that the JVA Support Agreement and each of the Amendments is hereby terminated, effective
January 1, 2013 (the   Termination Date  ), in all respects and such that all of the respective rights of each Party are terminated and that each Party is hereby released and discharged from all future obligations and all
liabilities under the JVA Support Agreement and each of the Amendments;  provided ,  however , that neither Party shall be released from liability associated with its acts or omissions prior to the Termination Date;  provided ,
 further , that the Parties hereby agree that any provisions that survive pursuant to the terms of the JVA Support Agreement and each of the Amendments shall not survive beyond the Termination Date, except that Article VI (indemnification)
shall survive to the extent provided in the Master Agreement and to the extent any provision such Article VI is incorporated by reference into an Opt-out Agreement or an Autogeneric Agreement (as such terms are defined in the Master Agreement). For
the avoidance of doubt, Sections 5.02, 5.03 and 5.06 and Article IX of the JVA Support Agreement shall not survive beyond the Termination Date and, to the extent applicable, such provisions shall be superseded by the non-competition and
confidentiality provisions in the Master Agreement.         

2.  
   Partial Termination of the Side Letters . The Parties hereby agree and acknowledge that the Side Letters are hereby terminated, effective on the Termination Date,
as they relate to Territory A. In connection therewith, the Parties hereby agree that all references to  Territory A,  the  Territory A Alliance Support Agreement,  the  SNC Partnership  or otherwise relating to
Territory A shall be deleted from the Side Letters and the Side Letters shall otherwise continue in full force and effect as they relate solely to Territory B, which Territory shall be amended as of the Termination Date.     

3.  
   Tax Matters . In accordance with the terms of the Master Agreement, the Parties hereby agree that the following provisions shall apply as of the Termination Date
and shall survive the termination of JVA and the transfer of the interests of any partner of JVA and shall remain in effect for the period of time necessary to resolve any and all matters regarding income taxation of JVA and items of [*] to the
extent based upon events or circumstances arising, filings made with respect to periods ending on or before, or decisions made, prior to the Termination Date:     

a.  
  The Parties shall cause the [*] to promptly provide each partner of JVA with copies of notices or other materials from, and inform each partner of JVA of discussions
engaged in with, all [*], and shall provide each partner of JVA with notice of all [*] including, without limitation, meetings with [*] [*], [*] and [*], as soon as possible after receiving notice of the [*];     

b.  
  The Parties shall cause the [*] and         

c.  
  The Parties hereby acknowledge that the [*] may request extensions to file any tax return or statement without the written consent of, but shall so inform, [*].
    
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

4.  
   Opt-Out Agreements and Autogeneric Agreements . The Opt-out Agreements and Autogeneric Agreements (as such terms are defined in the Master Agreement) shall
continue according to their terms except as otherwise provided in the Master Agreement, and any amounts payable thereunder shall be payable under the Master Agreement instead of the JVA Support Agreement.     

5.  
   Conflict . In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the Master Agreement, the provisions of the Master Agreement shall control.

6.  
   Representations and Warranties.  Each of the Parties hereto represents and warrants to each other as of the date hereof that (a) it has the requisite
authority and power to enter into this Agreement and (b) the execution and delivery of this Agreement has been duly authorized and constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms.

7.  
   Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall
constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract.         

8.  
   Successors and Assigns . The terms of this Agreement and the respective rights and obligations of the Parties hereunder shall be binding upon, and inure to the
benefit of, their respective successors and assigns.        [ Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank ]
  
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed as of the date first written
above.        

SANOFI    

By:  
     
  /s/ T. Saugier               

Name: T. Saugier     Title:
Authorized representative    

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY    

By:  
     
  /s/ Katherine Kelly               

Name: Katherine Kelly  
  Title: Assistant Secretary    
 
   [ Signature Page to JVA Alliance Support Agreement Termination Agreement ]   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

</EX-10.T>

<EX-10.U>
 7
 d450621dex10u.htm
 EX-10.U

EX-10.u 

Exhibit 10u         *Confidential Treatment Requested         AMENDMENT NO. 4
       TO THE        TERRITORY B ALLIANCE SUPPORT AGREEMENT       This Amendment No. 4 (this
  Amendment No. 4  ), dated as of January 1, 2013 (the   Effective Date  ) to the Territory B Alliance Support Agreement (  JVB Support Agreement  ), dated as of January 1, 1997, as amended
by that certain Amendment No. 1, dated October 17, 2001 (  Amendment No. 1  ), that certain Amendment, dated October 2, 2007 (  Amendment No. 2  ) and that certain Amendment No. 3, dated
April 10, 2012 (  Amendment No. 3  ) is hereby made by and between Sanofi, a French  soci t  anonyme  (  Sanofi  ), and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a Delaware corporation
(  BMS   and together with Sanofi, the   Parties   and, individually, each a   Party  ). Except as otherwise noted, any capitalized terms not herein defined shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the
JVB Support Agreement.      WHEREAS, pursuant to a master restructuring agreement (the   Master Agreement  ), dated
as of September 27, 2012, by and between Sanofi and BMS, Sanofi and BMS have agreed to simplify the overall governance, operating and financial principles of their alliance with respect to (i) Irbesartan Products worldwide (other than in
Japan, which is not in their alliance) and (ii) Clopidogrel Products worldwide (other than in Japan, which is not in their alliance, and in the United States) (the   Restructuring     
  WHEREAS, as part of the Restructuring, the Parties wish to amend certain provisions of the JVB Support Agreement to reflect the
acquisition by sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC of the rights and obligations of Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership (  JVB  ) with respect to the distribution and commercialization of the Products in the countries
set forth on Schedule 1 attached hereto (  Territory B1  ) and Sanofi shall be responsible for all decisions relating to distribution and commercialization of the Products in Territory B1 as of the Effective Date; and   
  WHEREAS, the Restructuring is not intended to change the overall governance, operating, and financial principles of the alliance with
respect to Clopidogrel or Clopidogrel Products in the United States.      NOW THEREFORE, the Parties, in consideration of the
foregoing and other good and valuable consideration (the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledge by each of the Parties) hereby agree by mutual consent:       

1.  
   Consent to the Assignment . The Parties hereby consent to the assignment, on the Effective Date, by JVB to sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC of all of its rights and
obligations to develop, manufacture, commercialize and sell the Products in Territory B1. Commencing on the Effective Date, Sanofi shall assume control of the distribution and commercialization of the Products existing as of such date and shall be
responsible for all decisions relating to the distribution and commercialization, in each case, in Territory B1. The provisions of the JVB Support Agreement shall no longer apply to countries in Territory B1, including, without limitation, any
noncompetition restrictions.     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

2.  
   Amendments . The Parties hereby agree that the JVB Support Agreement shall be amended to provide the following:     

a.  
  All countries other than the United States shall no longer be included within the definition of  Territory B  in the JVB Support Agreement and, as such,
Section 1.01 of the JVB Support Agreement shall be amended to remove Territory B1 and all references to  Territory B  throughout the JVB Support Agreement shall mean solely the United States (which, in any event, shall not include
Irbesartan in the United States).         

b.  
  All references to  Irbesartan  or  Irbesartan Products  throughout the JVB Support Agreement shall be deleted and the definition of
 Products  in Section 1.01 of the JVB Support Agreement, and all references throughout the JVB Support Agreement, shall mean Clopidogrel and the Clopidogrel Products only.     

c.  
  All references to  Territory A,   Territory A Alliance Support Agreement,  the  SNC Partnership  or otherwise relating to Territory A in
the JVB Support Agreement shall be deleted in their entirety and the provisions of the JVB Support Agreement relating to the management of the alliance shall no longer apply to Territory A or Territory B1.     

d.  
  Article III of the JVB Support Agreement shall be amended to exclude all references to  Territory A,   Irbesartan  and  Irbesartan
Products  and Sections 3.04 and 3.08 shall be deleted in their entirety.         

e.  
  Section 5.02 of the JVB Support Agreement shall be amended and restated in its entirety as follows:     
   Section 5.02.  Non-Competition . (a) During the period from and after the date hereof until the [*] each Party shall
not, and shall cause its Affiliates not to, directly or indirectly, except through the Territory B Partnership [*].      (b)
Nothing contained in this  Section 5.02  shall prevent BMS or any of its Affiliates from acquiring a business or being acquired by, or acquiring or combining with a Person, in each case which, at the time of such acquisition or
combination, makes, sells, promotes or otherwise commercializes: (i) any product containing Clopidogrel as an active pharmaceutical ingredient (  API   (ii) Clopidogrel API; or (iii) intermediates useful solely for
production of Clopidogrel API;  provided , that BMS and its Affiliates (which for these purposes would include an acquiror following the closing of the relevant transaction) shall dispose of API and intermediates of the Clopidogrel Products
(other than API and intermediates purchased, used or manufactured in connection with BMS Permitted FDCs) and of the relevant portion of the business or securities of the Person which undertakes the foregoing activity within [*] after the completion
of such acquisition or combination;  provided   further  that BMS shall notify Sanofi as promptly as practicable after any such acquisition or combination.      (c) Nothing contained in this  Section 5.02  shall prevent Sanofi or any of its Affiliates from acquiring a business, or being acquired by, or acquiring or combining with a Person, in each case
which, at the time of such acquisition or combination, makes, sells,   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  2   

promotes or otherwise commercializes, in Territory B: (i) any product containing Clopidogrel as an API; (ii) Clopidogrel API; or (iii) intermediates useful solely for production of
Clopidogrel API;  provided , that Sanofi and its Affiliates (which for these purposes would include an acquiror following the closing of the relevant transaction) shall dispose of API and intermediates of such products (other than API and
intermediates purchased, used or manufactured in connection with Sanofi Permitted Clopidogrel FDCs) in Territory B and the relevant portion of the business or securities of the Person which undertakes the foregoing activity in Territory B (other
than with respect to Sanofi Permitted Clopidogrel FDCs) within [*] after the completion of such acquisition or combination.   
  (d) BMS and its Affiliates shall have a right to use, and to have its Permitted Sublicensees use, by cross-reference, or incorporation by
reference, or any similar right or process, regulatory filings held (and any data contained therein), generated or owned by Sanofi with respect to the Clopidogrel Products (other than Excluded FDCs) prior to January 1, 2013, to enable BMS, its
Affiliates or its Permitted Sublicensees to conduct clinical trials for, and to file and obtain registrations for and commercialize a BMS Permitted FDC, if BMS desires to develop or market a BMS Permitted FDC in the United States, and at BMS s
cost. Upon BMS s reasonable request, Sanofi will, at BMS s expense, promptly confirm such rights and/or answer questions that have been reasonably requested or required by an applicable regulatory authority.   
  (e) Nothing contained in this  Section 5.02  (subject to  Section 5.02(b) ) shall prevent BMS or its Affiliates from
making, selling, promoting or otherwise commercializing, in each case either directly or through Permitted Sublicensees, a BMS Permitted FDC and none of them shall be required to pay any royalties or to obtain any consent from Sanofi for any such
activities worldwide from and after January 1, 2013.      (f) Nothing contained in this  Section 5.02  (subject to
 Section 5.02(b) ) shall prevent Sanofi or its Affiliates from making, selling, promoting or otherwise commercializing, in each case either directly or through Permitted Sublicensees, a Sanofi Permitted FDC and none of them shall be
required to pay any royalties (except with respect to Identified Clopi FDCs) or to obtain any consent from BMS for any such activities worldwide from and after January 1, 2013.   
  (g) Nothing in this  Section 5.02  shall be deemed to create or imply a license or right to or in the other Party or its
Affiliates under any intellectual property owned or controlled by a Party or its Affiliates that covers or claims any of its proprietary compounds or molecules (except as otherwise contemplated by the Parties) with respect to Clopidogrel.
     (h) For purposes of this  Section 5.02 :      (1)   BMS Permitted FDCs   means an FDC that includes at least the following active ingredients: (a) Clopidogrel and (b) a BMS Proprietary Compound, excluding, for the period
beginning on the Effective Date and ending on December 31, 2020, FDCs containing solely Clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid (the   Excluded FDCs  ). For the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing exclusion does not apply to any
Excluded FDC which also includes a BMS Proprietary Compound;   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  3   

(2)   BMS Proprietary Compound   means any compound that is either owned, in
whole or in part, by BMS or its Affiliates, or is licensed exclusively or co-exclusively to or by BMS or its Affiliates, and, at the time of the initial inclusion of such compound in a combination with Clopidogrel, is covered by one or more claims
of a patent or patent application in any country;      (3)   FDC   or   fixed-dose combination  
means a pharmaceutical dosage form containing fixed doses of more than one active ingredient in which all active ingredients are present in a single tablet, capsule or other form and shall expressly exclude so-called  co-packaging  in
which separate drugs in separate dosage forms are sold in a single unit or bundle;      (4)   Permitted
Sublicensees   means entities: (a) that will be manufacturing, developing or registering Products on behalf of BMS, including pursuant to co-commercialization or co-development agreements (for the purpose of manufacturing, development
or registration); or (b) to whom BMS sublicenses a Qualified FDC (but, in the case of this clause (b), only for use with such Qualified FDC);      (5)   Qualified FDC   means a BMS Permitted FDC with respect to which either (a) Phase II clinical trials have been completed by BMS and/or its Affiliates or the entities defined in
clause (a) of the definition of  Permitted Sublicensees,  or (b) Phase III clinical trials have been commenced by BMS and/or its Affiliates or the entities defined in clause (a) of the definition of  Permitted
Sublicensees;       (6)   Sanofi Permitted Clopidogrel FDCs   means an FDC that includes at least the
following active ingredients: (a) Clopidogrel and (b) a Sanofi Proprietary Compound; and      (7)   Sanofi
Proprietary Compound   means any compound that is either owned, in whole or in part, by Sanofi or its Affiliates, or is licensed exclusively or co-exclusively to or by Sanofi or its Affiliates, and, at the time of the initial inclusion of
such compound in a combination with Clopidogrel, is covered by one or more claims of a patent or patent application in any country.        

f.  
  Section 7.01(a) of the JVB Support Agreement shall be amended to provide that the term of the JVB Support Agreement (the   Term  ) shall expire on
December [*], 2019 (the   Expiration Date  ). Thereafter, the Term may be renewed solely with respect to Clopidogrel or Clopidogrel Products in Territory B for successive three-year terms, by mutual agreement of the Parties, no later
than 24 months prior to the expiration of the term then in effect. If not renewed prior thereto, upon the Expiration Date, the process described in Section 7.07 or Section 7.08, as applicable, of the JVB Support Agreement shall apply.
    
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  4   

g.  
  A new Section 7.07(vi) shall be added to the JVB Support Agreement to provide the following:  Following the Expiration Date or such later date if the Term is
extended pursuant to the terms set forth herein, [*] shall retain the responsibilities of Tax Matters partner with respect to all tax periods ending on or prior to the date of such termination. In connection therewith, [*] shall: (i) promptly
provide [*] with copies of notices or other materials from, and inform [*] of discussions with, U.S. federal and state tax authorities; (ii) provide [*] with notice of all scheduled administrative proceedings, including, without limitation,
meetings with agents of such tax authorities, technical advice, conferences and appellate hearings, in each case promptly after receiving notice of the scheduling of such proceedings and (ii) not agree to any settlement agreement with such tax
authority with respect to JVB-related items of income, gain, loss or deduction without [*] prior written consent;  provided , that [*] may request extensions to file all tax returns or statements without [*] prior written consent (and [*] shall
provide [*] with notice of any such requests).          

h.  
  Article IX of the JVB Support Agreement shall be deleted in its entirety.         

i.  
  A new Article X shall be added to the JVB Support Agreement to provide the following:  If during the Term Sanofi intends to abandon any patent relating to a
Clopidogrel Product in Territory B (as such term is amended pursuant to this Amendment), Sanofi shall provide BMS forty-five (45)-days advance written notice of such intent, describing in reasonable detail the patent(s) it intends to abandon and the
target date of abandonment (  Abandonment Date  ). BMS shall provide Sanofi with written notice at least fifteen (15)-days prior to the Abandonment Date of its desire to assume the title of the patent (  Patent Assumption
Notice  ). If Sanofi receives BMS s Patent Assumption Notice, Sanofi shall assign to BMS the title to such patent on or before the Abandonment Date and BMS shall cover all of the costs and expenses of such assignment. If BMS fails to
provide a Patent Assumption Notice, Sanofi shall be free to abandon such patent, in its sole and absolute discretion, on the Abandonment Date or thereafter. If Sanofi assigns to BMS the title to such patent, BMS shall pay all further costs relating
to the patent, including, but not limited to, all costs and expenses relating to prosecution costs, maintenance costs and litigation costs, and Sanofi shall be relieved of all of its rights and obligations with respect to such patent after such
date. The procedures set forth herein shall apply each time Sanofi intends to abandon a patent prior to the Expiration Date.          

3.  
   Remainder of the Agreement . Except as explicitly amended hereby, other provisions of the JVB Support Agreement (as otherwise amended, modified, supplemented or
restated prior to the Effective Date) shall remain unchanged. For the avoidance of doubt, Article VI of the JVB Alliance Support Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as expressly modified in the Master Agreement.

4.  
   Representations and Warranties.  Each of the Parties hereto represents and warrants to each other as of the date hereof that (a) it has the requisite
authority and power to enter into this Amendment No. 4 and (b) the execution and delivery of this Amendment No. 4 has been duly authorized and constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance
with its terms.     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  5   

5.  
   Counterparts . This Amendment No. 4 may be executed in any number of counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which
shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract.         

6.  
   Successors and Assigns . The terms of this Agreement No. 4 and the respective rights and obligations of the Parties hereunder shall be binding upon, and
inure to the benefit of, their respective successors and assigns.        [ Remainder of Page Intentionally Left
Blank ]   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       
  6   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed as of the date first written
above.        

SANOFI    

By:  
     
  /s/ T. Saugier               

Name: T. Saugier     Title:
Authorized representative    

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY    

By:  
     
  /s/ Katherine Kelly               

Name: Katherine Kelly  
  Title: Assistant Secretary    
 
   [ Signature Page to Amended Territory B Alliance Support Agreement ]   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

SCHEDULE 1        TERRITORY B1       With respect to Irbesartan Products and Clopidogrel
Products:      Argentina      Australia      Brazil   
  Canada      Mexico
     With respect to Clopidogrel Products only:      Colombia   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

</EX-10.U>

<EX-10.V>
 8
 d450621dex10v.htm
 EX-10.V

EX-10.v 

Exhibit 10v         *Confidential Treatment Requested         
      AMENDED AND RESTATED   
  CLOPIDOGREL   
  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LICENSE AGREEMENT      between      SANOFI   
  and      SANOFI PHARMA
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB      dated as of January 1, 2013   
       
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

TABLE OF CONTENTS    

*CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      i   

*CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      ii   

This AMENDED AND RESTATED CLOPIDOGREL INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LICENSE AGREEMENT (this
  Agreement  ) dated as of January 1, 2013, is hereby made by and between:      Sanofi, a
 soci t  anonyme  organized and existing under the laws of the French Republic (  Licensor   and      Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb,  a soci t  en nom collectif  organized and existing under the laws of the French Republic (the   SNC Partnership   and, together with
Licensor, the   Parties   and, individually, each a   Party  ).       WITNESSETH:    
  WHEREAS, Licensor previously discovered and patented a new chemical entity known as SR 25990C with the international non-proprietary name
Clopidogrel Hydrogenosulphate (  Clopidogrel        WHEREAS, Licensor and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a
Delaware corporation (  BMS  ) have entered into a Territory A Alliance Support Agreement dated as of January 1, 1997 (the   Alliance Support Agreement  ) and have formed through their indirect wholly owned
subsidiaries the SNC Partnership for, among other things, the commercialization of Clopidogrel Products in Territory A (as such terms are defined in the Alliance Support Agreement);   
  WHEREAS, Licensor and the SNC Partnership have entered into a Clopidogrel Intellectual Property License and Supply Agreement, dated as of
January 1, 1997, as amended by the Amendment to the Clopidogrel Intellectual Property License and Supply Agreement, dated May 25, 2010 (as amended, the   Original License  ) pursuant to which Licensor granted to the SNC
Partnership a license under certain intellectual property, including certain patents, trademarks and know-how, for the commercialization of Clopidogrel Products in Territory A;   
  WHEREAS, the SNC Partnership has been commercializing Clopidogrel Products in Territory A since that date;   
  WHEREAS, pursuant to the Master Restructuring Agreement (the   Definitive Agreement  ), dated as of September 27,
2012, by and between Sanofi and BMS, Sanofi and BMS have agreed to simplify the overall governance, operating and financial principles of their alliance with respect to Clopidogrel Products; and   
  WHEREAS, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Definitive Agreement, Sanofi and BMS have agreed to (among other things)
(i) terminate the Alliance Support Agreement and (ii) amend and restate the Original License on the terms set forth herein.      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Parties hereby agree to amend and restate the Original License as follows:   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

ARTICLE 1        DEFINITIONS       1.1.  Defined Terms . As used in this Agreement, the
following terms shall have the following meanings:        Affiliate  , when used with reference to
any Person, means any other Person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, such Person;  provided ,  however , that, with respect to Licensor, the definition of Affiliate shall exclude L Or al, a  societe
anonyme  organized and existing under the laws of the French Republic. For the purposes of this definition,   control   shall refer to (a) the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct the management or
policies of a Person or to veto any material decision relating to the management or policies of a Person, in each case whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, (b) the beneficial ownership, directly or
indirectly, of securities (excluding general partnership interests) representing at least 50% of the voting power of all outstanding voting securities of a Person or (c) the beneficial ownership of at least 50% of the partnership interests of a
general partnership.        BMS Partner   means BMS Investco S.A.S., a partner in the SNC
Partnership.        Clopidogrel Bulk   means the active substance chemical bulk containing
Clopidogrel.        Clopidogrel Intellectual Property   means the Clopidogrel Know-How and the
Licensed Patents.        Clopidogrel Know-How   means any and all technical data, information,
material and other know-how that relate to the manufacturing and purification of the Clopidogrel Bulk, including, without limitation, any analytical methodology, chemical, procedures, protocols, techniques and results of experimentation and testing,
solely owned, developed or acquired by Licensor and its Affiliates as of the date hereof.   
    Clopidogrel Product   means (i) a product with the sole active ingredient
Clopidogrel, in finished form, marketed under the trademarks Plavix      and Iscover      or any trademark that is confusingly similar to or that is a replacement for any such trademark, and (ii) a
product (an   Identified Clopi FDC  ) which contains as the only active ingredients the combination of Clopidogrel with acetylsalicylic acid, in finished form, marketed under the trademarks DuoPlavin     , CoPlavix      and DuoCover      or any
trademark that is confusingly similar to or that is a replacement for any such trademark. For the avoidance of doubt, Clopidogrel Products shall exclude any Fixed Dose Combination Products.   
    Competing Product   means any product [*] that [*], but which is not [*] that is [*] or that is a [*]
selected for such [*]   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      2   

Cost of Bulk   means the [*]   
    Effective Date   means January 1, 2013.   
    fixed dose combination   means a pharmaceutical dosage form containing fixed doses of more than one
active ingredient in which all active ingredients are present in a single tablet, capsule or other form and shall expressly exclude so-called  co-packaging  in which separate drugs in separate dosage forms are sold in a single unit or
bundle.        Fixed Dose Combination Product   means a fixed dose combination containing
Clopidogrel (other than the Identified Clopi FDCs).        Governmental Authority   means any
federal, state or local or any foreign or supranational government, governmental, regulatory or administrative authority, agency or commission or any court, tribunal or judicial or arbitral body.   
    Identified Clopi FDC   has the meaning set forth in the definition of Clopidogrel Product.   
    IFRS Net Sales   means, with respect to a Clopidogrel Product, net sales of Licensor (or its Affiliates
or their respective licensees or sublicensees) as audited and reported in Euros by Licensor (or its Affiliates or licensees) in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (  IFRS  ), as IFRS may be modified from time
to time. For the avoidance of doubt: (a) IFRS Net Sales shall not include samples, compassionate use of the Clopidogrel Products and the like;  provided  that revenue from Clopidogrel Products sold to third parties for clinical trial
purposes shall be included in IFRS Net Sales; and (b) any Damages (as defined in the Definitive Agreement) paid by Licensor pursuant to Article IX of the Definitive Agreement shall not be treated as a deduction for purposes of calculating IFRS
Net Sales. In calculating IFRS Net Sales, the Parties shall disregard any related Know-How, Discovery or other royalties paid to Licensor after January 1, 2013 on Clopidogrel Products.   
    Lease Agreement   means the Business Lease Agreement between the SNC Partnership and Sanofi Winthrop
Industrie, dated as of the date hereof.        Licensed Intellectual Property   means the
Clopidogrel Intellectual Property and the Product Intellectual Property.        Licensed Patents  
means the patents and patent applications of Licensor and its Affiliates existing on the date hereof that relate to Clopidogrel Products in Territory A as listed on  Schedule 1A  attached hereto and all reissues, renewals, divisions,
continuations, continuations-in-part, reexaminations, patent term restorations, patents of additions and extensions thereof.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      3   

Licensed Trademarks   means the trademarks and registered
trademarks and applications for registered trademarks in Territory A listed on  Schedule 1B  attached hereto, and any trademarks, registered trademarks and applications for registered trademarks that are confusingly similar to or replacements
for any of the foregoing and that are selected by Licensor for use in connection with Clopidogrel Products.   
    Loss of Exclusivity   means the loss of exclusivity in any country in Territory A upon the occurrence of
all of the three following conditions: (i) a Clopidogrel Product shall have lost its marketing exclusivity (whether by virtue of compulsory license under, or expiration, invalidity or unenforceability of, the patents covering such Clopidogrel
Product, loss or expiration of any exclusivity conferred  de facto  or  de jure  by any statutory marketing or data exclusivity or any other cause), (ii) one or more Competing Products shall have been legally marketed in such country
by one or more Third Parties and (iii) IFRS Net Sales of such Clopidogrel Product in such country over any period of [*] (after the conditions set forth in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) above shall have been satisfied) shall have [*] the
level of IFRS Net Sales of such Clopidogrel Product in such country over the immediately preceding period of [*]   
    MAA   means any marketing authorizations, licenses, approvals, registrations, certificates and exemptions
submitted to or granted by or pending with any Governmental Authority for the purpose of allowing the manufacture, production, supply, marketing, distribution or sale of any Clopidogrel Product in a particular country.   
    Market Penetration   means, with respect to one or more Competing Products marketed by one or more Third
Parties in any given country in Territory A, the number of units of such Competing Products sold in such country, expressed as a percentage of the sum of (i) [*] with respect to which [*] constitute [*] and (ii) the [*] in each case over a
period of [*], as reported by [*].        Marketing Entity   means, in each country in Territory A,
one or more entities selected by the SNC Partnership (or the entity to which the SNC Partnership leases its business pursuant to the Lease Agreement) to be responsible for the marketing, promotion, sale and distribution of the Clopidogrel Products.
       New IP Agreement   means the FDC Intellectual Property License Agreement between Sanofi and
BMS, dated as of the date hereof.        Person   means any individual, partnership, firm,
corporation,  soci t  anonyme, soci t  en nom collectif, soci t  en participation ,  soci t  par actions simplifi e , limited liability company, joint venture, association,
trust or other entity or any government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, as well as any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a person under Section 13(d)(3) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
       Product Intellectual Property   means the Product Know-How, the Licensed Trademarks and the
Licensed Patents.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      4   

Product Know-How   means any and all technical data,
information, material and other know-how that relate to the formulation of Clopidogrel Products, including, without limitation, any analytical methodology, chemical, toxicological, pharmacological and clinical data, formulae, procedures, protocols,
techniques and results of experimentation and testing, solely owned, developed or acquired by Licensor as of the date hereof.        Sanofi Partner   means Sanofi Participations, a partner in the SNC Partnership.        Territory A   means the countries and geographic areas described and listed in  Schedule 1C  attached hereto.   
    Third Party   means a Person who or which is neither a Party nor an Affiliate of a Party.   
    U.S.   or   United States   means any State or Commonwealth of the United States of
America, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa and any other territory, possession or military base of the United States of America.   
  1.2.  Additional Defined Terms . The following additional defined terms shall have the meanings set forth in the sections of this
Agreement listed below:       

Defined Term   
      
  Section Where Defined   

Agreement   
      
  Preamble   
 
    Alliance Support Agreement   
      
  Recitals   
 
    BMS   
      
  Recitals   
 
    Clopidogrel   
      
  Recitals   
 
    Definitive Agreement   
      
  Recitals   
 
    Discovery Royalty   
      
  4.1   
 
    Dispute  
  Dispute Resolution Notice   
      
  8.3     8.3    
 
    Force Majeure  
  ICC   
      
  8.14     8.3    
 
    IFRS   
      
  1.1   
 
    License Termination Date   
      
  6.2(a)   
 
    Licensor   
      
  Preamble   
 
    Notices   
      
  8.1   
 
    Original License   
      
  Recitals   
 
    Party   
      
  Preamble   
 
    Quality Standards   
      
  5.5   
 
    SNC Partnership   
      
  Preamble   
 
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      5   

ARTICLE 2        GRANT OF LICENSE       2.1.  License Grant . Subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, Licensor hereby grants to the SNC Partnership, and the SNC Partnership hereby accepts:      (i) an exclusive license for the term hereof under the Product Intellectual Property to make, have made, sell, offer for sale and import Clopidogrel Products in Territory A; and   
  (ii) an exclusive license for the term hereof under the Clopidogrel Intellectual Property solely for the purpose of making
and having Clopidogrel made to produce Clopidogrel Products for Territory A by the entity(ies) approved by Licensor;       provided, that ,
the foregoing exclusivity shall not apply to Licensor and BMS to the extent of their respective rights under the New IP Agreement with respect to Fixed Dose Combination Products, and Licensor retains all rights under the Product Intellectual
Property and Clopidogrel Intellectual Property with respect to Fixed Dose Combination Products, subject to the licenses granted to BMS under the New IP Agreement.      2.2.  No Transfer . The SNC Partnership hereby acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement does not, and shall not be deemed to, transfer any proprietary ownership interest whatsoever to the SNC
Partnership in or to the Licensed Intellectual Property. Nothing herein shall give the SNC Partnership any right, title or interest in or to any of the Licensed Intellectual Property, except the rights granted pursuant to this Agreement.   
  2.3.  No Implicit Rights . All of the rights granted hereunder are explicitly stated herein and nothing in this Agreement shall be
construed to grant any implied rights whatsoever to the SNC Partnership in or to the Licensed Intellectual Property.      2.4.
 Goodwill . The SNC Partnership hereby acknowledges that all goodwill connected with the Licensed Trademarks shall inure to the benefit of Licensor, and the SNC Partnership shall not take any action that may be detrimental to such goodwill.
     2.5.  Location-G rance . For the avoidance of doubt, Sections 2.2   2.4 hereof shall not prevent the SNC
Partnership from leasing its business pursuant to the Lease Agreement.       ARTICLE 3    
   SUB-LICENSE       3.1.  General Sub-License . The SNC Partnership shall not, without the prior written consent of Licensor, sub-license any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, except as permitted
under, and subject to the terms of, the Lease Agreement. No such sub-license shall relieve the SNC Partnership of its obligations hereunder.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      6   

3.2.  Termination of Sub-License . Licensor shall have the right to require the SNC
Partnership to terminate any sub-license hereunder in the event that the sub-licensee fails to comply in any material respect with, or takes any action contrary to, the terms of such sub-license, and such sub-licensee has failed to remedy such
non-compliance within thirty (30) days from its receipt of written notice thereof from Licensor or the SNC Partnership.   
   ARTICLE 4    
   CONSIDERATION       4.1.  Discoverer s Remuneration . In consideration of the rights and licenses granted hereunder, the SNC Partnership shall pay, or shall cause to be paid, directly to Licensor for the term
hereof an aggregate amount equal to [*] of IFRS Net Sales of Clopidogrel Products in Territory A (the   Discovery Royalty  ), which shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 4.2 hereof.   
  4.2.  Adjustment to the Discovery Royalty . (a) The Discovery Royalty shall be reset, and shall subsequently be subject to
periodic positive or negative adjustments (but not more than once every two (2) consecutive calendar quarters), as described below:      The rate of the Discovery Royalty shall be [*] of IFRS Net Sales of Clopidogrel Products in Territory A,  [*]  an amount equal to [*] which shall be determined as follows:   
  [*]      (the Cost of Bulk being computed over [*] immediately preceding the calculation date and expressed as a percentage of IFRS Net Sales);  provided ,  however , that, except as provided in
paragraphs (b) and (d) of this Section 4.2, the Discovery Royalty shall in no event be reduced below [*] of IFRS Net Sales of Clopidogrel Products in Territory A.   
  (b) From and after the Loss of Exclusivity of a Clopidogrel Product in any given country in Territory A, Licensor shall receive a
trademark royalty of [*] of IFRS Net Sales of such Clopidogrel Product in such country, if and for so long as the Licensed Trademarks are used by a Marketing Entity in such country, and any [*] in the rate of the Discovery Royalty attributable to
such country remaining after [*] (if applicable) shall be [*] gradually, on the basis of [*]:      [*]   
  (c) The Loss of Exclusivity shall be measured by Licensor on a quarterly basis with the adjustment occurring at the beginning of the
quarter following the quarter in which the Loss of Exclusivity occurs.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      7   

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.1 and paragraphs (a), (b) and
(c) of this Section 4.2, the Parties hereby agree that the Discovery Royalty payable by the SNC Partnership to Licensor for the years 2013 until 2018 (inclusive) shall be equal to an amount of [*] of IFRS Net Sales of Clopidogrel Products
in Territory A and shall not be subject to the royalty rates set forth in Section 4.1 or the adjustments set forth in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above.      4.3.  Payment . For the term of this Agreement, the SNC Partnership shall pay or cause to be paid to Licensor all amounts due hereunder on a quarterly basis within sixty (60) days of the end of
each calendar quarter. Each such payment shall be accompanied by an accurate statement of the amount of IFRS Net Sales of Clopidogrel Products in Territory A during such calendar quarter, the calculation of all payments to be made to Licensor for
such calendar quarter and, except for the years 2013   2018 inclusive, a report on Competing Products and on any actual or potential Market Penetration.      4.4.  Method of Payment . (a) All payments to be made hereunder shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds, and shall be made in Euros to the bank account of Licensor as
notified to the SNC Partnership, unless the Parties agree to settle such payments through other means.      (b) Amounts due from
the SNC Partnership to Licensor in respect of sales based on a currency other than Euros shall be converted to Euros using the methodology determined for such purpose by Licensor in calculating IFRS Net Sales.   
  4.5.  Records . The SNC Partnership shall maintain (i) books, records and accounts which accurately and fairly reflect, in
reasonable detail, the IFRS Net Sales of Clopidogrel Products in Territory A and (ii) an adequate system of internal accounting controls. All books, records and accounts referred to in clause (i) above shall be maintained for not less than
[*] or for such longer period if and as required by applicable law, following the date of the sales constituting the IFRS Net Sales and shall be made available for reasonable review upon request by Licensor.   
  4.6.  Taxes . All payments due under this Agreement shall be paid in full without deduction, except for taxes (if any) required to
be withheld by applicable law in Territory A with respect to such payments. In the event the SNC Partnership is required under applicable law to withhold any tax to the revenue authorities in any country in Territory A regarding any payment to
Licensor, the amount of such tax shall be deducted by the SNC Partnership and paid to the relevant revenue authority, and the SNC Partnership shall notify Licensor thereof and shall promptly furnish to Licensor all copies of any tax certificate or
other documentation evidencing such withholding. In the event that any such tax shall subsequently be found to be due, payment of such tax shall be the responsibility of Licensor.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      8   

ARTICLE 5        TRADEMARKS; PATENTS; INFRINGEMENT       5.1.  Maintenance . Licensor shall
maintain in full force and effect all Licensed Patents and Licensed Trademarks for the term of this Agreement and shall bear all costs and expenses related thereto. In the event that Licensor or the SNC Partnership becomes aware of a registration
for or an application to register a tradename, trademark, service mark, certification mark or logo which it believes is reasonably likely to conflict with any Licensed Trademark, it shall promptly inform the other Party in writing of the same,
giving particulars thereof. Licensor shall have the first right to commence an opposition or cancellation proceeding against such application or registration. If Licensor decides not to commence an opposition or cancellation proceeding, it shall
promptly inform the SNC Partnership in writing of the same and the SNC Partnership shall have the right, but not the obligation, to commence an opposition or cancellation proceeding against the application or registration. The cost and expenses of
any such opposition or cancellation proceeding commenced by either Licensor or the SNC Partnership shall be borne in accordance with Section 7.2 of the Definitive Agreement. Each Party shall execute all necessary and proper documents and take
such actions as shall be appropriate to assist the other Party in commencing and prosecuting such opposition or cancellation proceeding.      5.2.  Registration . The Licensed Trademarks in Territory A are filed and shall be maintained in the name of Licensor. The SNC Partnership shall execute and deliver to Licensor, in such form as
Licensor shall reasonably request, any and all documents which may be necessary or desirable to assist Licensor in renewing the Licensed Trademarks, or in recording the SNC Partnership as a registered user of the Licensed Trademarks, if necessary.
     5.3.  Undertaking of the SNC Partnership . The SNC Partnership agrees not to register or attempt to register in any
country in Territory A any trade name, trademark, service mark, certification mark or logo that is confusingly similar to, or that contains elements that are confusingly similar to, any Licensed Trademark.   
  5.4.  Compliance . The SNC Partnership shall comply with all notice and marking requirements under applicable intellectual property
laws and labeling requirements under applicable law that are necessary or advisable for the protection and enforcement of the Licensed Trademarks or the Licensed Patents. The SNC Partnership shall further comply with all applicable laws and
regulations related to the manufacture, marketing, distribution and sale of Clopidogrel Products in Territory A.      5.5.
 Quality Standards . The SNC Partnership shall make or have made Clopidogrel Products according to the quality standards established in accordance with the MAAs (the   Quality Standards  ). All promotional and packaging materials
to be used in connection with Clopidogrel Products shall be submitted to Licensor so that Licensor may ensure the correct use of the Licensed Trademarks thereon, and the SNC Partnership shall not use any such promotional or packaging materials
without the prior consent of Licensor (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld);  provided ,  however , that such consent shall be deemed to have been given if Licensor shall not have provided Notice to the SNC Partnership of its
objection to any such promotional or packaging material within fifteen (15) days after its receipt thereof.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      9   

5.6.  Quality Control . If the SNC Partnership uses manufacturers other than Licensor
or its Affiliates, the SNC Partnership shall carry out quality control tests that are customary in the pharmaceutical industry to determine that all Clopidogrel Products and packaging related thereto sold by or on behalf of the SNC Partnership
conform to the Quality Standards. The SNC Partnership shall keep full and complete testing records, which shall be made available for reasonable review upon request by Licensor. Upon reasonable request, the SNC Partnership shall permit Licensor to
inspect the manufacturing facilities used by or on behalf of the SNC Partnership and, during such inspection, Licensor shall have the right to make such tests as it deems necessary to ensure that the Quality Standards are being maintained.
     5.7.  Failure to Meet Standards . The SNC Partnership agrees that Clopidogrel Products not meeting the Quality Standards
shall not be labeled or used or offered for sale under the Licensed Trademarks. Unless otherwise agreed, any products that are not Clopidogrel Products, including, without limitation, Competing Products, may not be advertised or otherwise promoted,
directly or indirectly, by the SNC Partnership with any reference to the Licensed Trademarks, and the SNC Partnership shall instruct its distributors to comply with this restriction.   
  5.8.  Patent and Trademark Infringement . During the term of this Agreement, if the SNC Partnership or Licensor becomes aware of the
infringement or threatened infringement of any Licensed Patent or Licensed Trademark, it shall promptly notify the other Party in writing of the same, giving particulars thereof. Licensor shall have the first right to institute an action based on
such infringement or threatened infringement and shall be responsible for the conduct of such action. The SNC Partnership shall assist and cooperate with Licensor to the extent necessary in the conduct of such action. If Licensor notifies the SNC
Partnership in writing that it does not propose to take action against the infringer, or if within two (2) months of notification of the infringement or threatened infringement, Licensor has taken no demonstrable action to enjoin or address
such infringement or threatened infringement against the infringer, the SNC Partnership shall have the right, but not the obligation, to institute an infringement action. The costs and expenses of any such infringement action (including, without
limitation, fees of attorneys and other professionals) shall be borne in accordance with [*]. Each Party shall execute all necessary and proper documents and take such actions as shall be appropriate to allow the other Party to institute and
prosecute such infringement actions and Licensor shall, if required, lend its name to enable the SNC Partnership to conduct the proceedings. Any award or other consideration paid by Third Parties as a result of an infringement action (whether by way
of settlement or otherwise) shall be allocated between Licensor and BMS in accordance with [*].      5.9.  Notification of
Infringement . In the event of the institution of any suit by a Third Party against either Party or any of their respective Affiliates for patent and/or trademark infringement and/or infringement of any other intellectual property rights
involving Clopidogrel   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      10   

or Clopidogrel Products in Territory A, such Party shall promptly notify the other Party in writing of such suit. Licensor shall have the first right to conduct the defense of any such suit.
Licensor shall notify the SNC Partnership within a reasonable amount of time after notification of the institution of such a suit if it elects not to defend such suit. If Licensor does not elect to defend such suit, the SNC Partnership shall have
the right, but not the obligation, to conduct the defense of such suit. The costs and expenses of any such suit (including, without limitation, fees of attorneys and other professionals) shall be borne in accordance with Article IX of the Definitive
Agreement. Each Party hereby agrees to assist and cooperate with the other Party, to the extent necessary, in the defense of such suit. Any award or other consideration paid by a Third Party as a result of such suit (whether by way of settlement or
otherwise) shall be allocated between Licensor and BMS as follows: (a) [*] and (b) [*].      5.10.  Invalidity or
Nullity . Licensor shall have the first right to conduct the defense of any suit brought by a Third Party based on the invalidity or nullity of a Licensed Patent other than an action instituted by way of counterclaim in an action for infringement
of a Licensed Patent, in which case the Party conducting the infringement action shall have the right to conduct the defense. The SNC Partnership shall assist and cooperate with Licensor to the extent necessary in the defense of such suit. If
Licensor notifies the SNC Partnership in writing that it does not propose to conduct the defense of such suit, or if within two (2) months of notification of such suit, Licensor has taken no demonstrable action to conduct the defense of such
suit, the SNC Partnership shall have the right, but not the obligation, to conduct the defense of such suit. The costs and expenses of any such action (including, without limitation, fees of attorneys and other professionals) shall be borne in
accordance with Article IX of the Definitive Agreement. Each Party shall execute all necessary and proper documents and take such actions as shall be appropriate to allow the other Party to conduct the defense of such suit and Licensor shall, if
required, lend its name to enable the SNC Partnership to conduct the proceedings. Any award or other consideration paid by a Third Party as a result of such suit (whether by way of settlement or otherwise) shall be allocated between Licensor and BMS
as follows: (a) [*] and (b) [*].      5.11.  Original License . The Parties hereby agree that all acts, omissions
and occurrences prior to the Effective Date relating to the subject matter of this Article 5, and all rights and obligations of the Parties with respect thereto, shall be governed by the terms of the Original License prior to its amendment and
restatement in accordance with the terms hereof, subject to Section 7.2(b) of the Definitive Agreement.      5.12.  [*] 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, Licensor shall have no obligation to maintain, prosecute or defend any patent set forth on  Schedule 1A  hereto under the heading [*].   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      11   

ARTICLE 6        TERM; TERMINATION       6.1.  Term; Termination .   
  (a) The term of this Agreement shall commence on the date hereof and shall expire on the later of (x) the 15th anniversary of the
first commercial sale of a Clopidogrel Product and (y) such date as the last Licensed Patent effective in any country in Territory A shall have expired and all other  de jure  exclusivity available for a Clopidogrel Product shall have
ended. Thereafter, the term of this Agreement may be renewed for successive three-year terms, respectively, by the mutual agreement of the Parties no later than 24 months prior to the expiration of the term then in effect.   
  (b) This Agreement may be terminated by the mutual written consent of Licensor, the SNC Partnership and BMS.   
  (c) Licensor shall have the right to declare termination of this Agreement upon Notice to the SNC Partnership, following the first to
occur of:      (i) the BMS Partner shall have (A) voluntarily commenced any proceeding or filed any petition
seeking relief under Title 11 of the United States Code, Book VI of the French Commercial Code (legislative part as well as regulatory part) or any other bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law of the United States, any state thereof, the French
Republic or any other applicable jurisdiction, (B) applied for or consented to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conciliator, administrator or similar official for it or for all or substantially all of its
property, (C) filed an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against or in respect of it in any such proceeding, (D) made a general assignment for the benefit of creditors of all or substantially all of its assets,
(E) become unable generally, or admitted in writing its inability to, pay all or substantially all of its debts as they become due or (F) taken corporate action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing; or   
  (ii) an involuntary proceeding shall have been commenced or any involuntary petition shall have been filed in a court of
competent jurisdiction seeking (A) relief in respect of the BMS Partner, or of its property, under Title 11 of the United States Code, Book VI of the French Commercial Code (legislative part as well as regulatory part) or any other bankruptcy,
insolvency or similar law of the United States, any state thereof, the French Republic or any other applicable jurisdiction, (B) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conciliator, administrator or similar official for
the BMS Partner or for all or substantially all of its property or (C) the winding-up or liquidation of the BMS Partner; and such proceeding or petition shall have continued undismissed for sixty (60) days or an order or decree approving
or ordering any of the foregoing shall have continued unstayed and in effect for thirty (30) days.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      12   

6.2.  Consequences of Termination . (a) Upon the expiration or early termination
of this Agreement pursuant to Section 6.1 hereof (the   License Termination Date  ):      (i)
the SNC Partnership shall cease, and shall cause each sub-licensee (if any) to cease, all activities related to the Licensed Intellectual Property; and      (ii) the SNC Partnership shall pay in full all amounts due to Licensor hereunder within ten (10) days after the final determination of IFRS Net Sales for such period, including the License
Termination Date, pursuant to Sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.6 hereof which shall survive until the full payment of all amounts under this clause (ii).      (b) Expiration or early termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Article 6 shall be without prejudice to any rights which shall have accrued to the benefit of any Party prior to such expiration or
termination. Such expiration or termination shall not relieve any Party from its obligations which are expressly indicated to survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement. All of the Parties  rights and obligations under this
subclause (b) and under Sections 4.5, 4.6, 6.2, 8.2   8.4, Article 7 and, with respect to actions or suits commenced prior to the date of expiration or early termination hereof and until each such action or suit is finally resolved,
Sections 5.1, 5.8, 5.9 and 5.10 hereof, shall survive such expiration or termination for the applicable period.       ARTICLE 7
       CONFIDENTIALITY       All of the data, material and information exchanged by the Parties hereunder or related hereto (including, without limitation, the Licensed Intellectual Property) shall be subject to the confidentiality
provisions of the Definitive Agreement as set forth in Section 8.8 thereof.       ARTICLE 8    
   MISCELLANEOUS       8.1.  Notices . All notices, requests or other communications hereunder (collectively,   Notices  ) shall be in writing, shall be in the English language and shall be given or made by
delivery in person, by courier service, by facsimile (with receipt confirmed) or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested, with postage prepaid) to the respective Parties at the following addresses:   
  If to Licensor, to:      Sanofi      54, rue la Bo tie   
  75008 Paris, France      Attention: Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      13   

Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.43.03   
  Attention: Vice President, Alliances   Partnerships      Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.40.99      with a copy to:   
  Weil Gotshal   Manges      767 Fifth Avenue      New York NY 10153   
  Attention: [omitted]      Facsimile: 212 310 8007      If to the SNC Partnership, to:   
  Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb      54, rue la Bo tie      75008 Paris, France   
  Attention: Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel   
  Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.43.03      Attention: Vice President, Alliances   Partnerships      Facsimile: (33.1)
53.77.40.99      with a copy to the BMS Partner at:      Bristol-Myers Squibb Company      P.O. Box 4000   
  Route 206   Province Line Road      Princeton, NJ 08543-4000 USA      Attention: Vice President and Associate General
Counsel, Transactional Practice Group      Facsimile: (1-609) 252-7680   
  and:      Wilmer
Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP      7 World Trade Center   
  250 Greenwich Street      New York, NY 10007 USA      Attention: [omitted]   
  Facsimile: (212) 230-8888   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      14   

or to such other address or facsimile number as hereafter shall be furnished as provided in this
Section 8.1 by any Party hereto to the other Party hereto. All Notices given to any Party in accordance with this Section 8.1 shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt if delivered by hand or overnight courier service or
sent by facsimile, or on the date ten (10) business days after dispatch by certified or registered mail (postage prepaid) if mailed.      8.2.  Governing Law . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, United States of America, without regard to the choice of law principles
that might otherwise be applied in such jurisdiction.      8.3.  Dispute Resolution .   
  (a)  Negotiation and Notice . In the event of any dispute, claim, controversy or disagreement (each, a   Dispute  )
arising out of, in connection with or relating to this Agreement including any question regarding this Agreement s existence, validity or termination, the Parties shall first seek resolution of such Dispute by negotiation between their
respective senior management. Such negotiation shall be deemed to commence upon the service by either Licensor or the BMS Partner upon the other of a written notice (a   Dispute Resolution Notice  ) under this
 Section 8.3(a) .      (b) If a Dispute subject to negotiation under  Section 8.3(a)  is not finally resolved
within thirty (30) days following receipt by either Licensor or the BMS Partner of a Dispute Resolution Notice, the Dispute shall be finally resolved by arbitration under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce (the
  ICC  ). The arbitral tribunal shall be composed of three (3) arbitrators. Each of Licensor and the BMS Partner shall nominate one (1) arbitrator. The two (2) arbitrators so nominated shall nominate the presiding
arbitrator. If either Licensor or the BMS Partner fails to nominate an arbitrator in its Request for Arbitration or within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice of the nomination of an arbitrator by the other party, such arbitrator shall
be appointed by the ICC Court. If the two (2) arbitrators to be nominated by Licensor and the BMS Partner fail to agree upon a third arbitrator within thirty (30) days of the nomination of the second arbitrator, the third arbitrator shall
be appointed by the ICC Court. The place of arbitration shall be Paris, France and the language of the arbitration shall be English. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in the ICC Rules of Arbitration, each party shall bear its own costs
and expenses relating to such arbitration and all related proceedings, including fees for legal representation. Each Party shall continue to perform its respective obligations under this Agreement and this Agreement shall remain in effect while the
Dispute is being resolved. The Parties agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the Definitive Agreement, or the Settlement Agreement (including the China Opt-Out Letter) or any Alliance Agreement (as such terms are
defined in the Definitive Agreement) shall be resolved in a single arbitration before the ICC, regardless of how many parties or agreements are implicated, and specifically waive any argument that a dispute arising out of or relating to this
Agreement shall be resolved in multiple arbitrations before the ICC.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      15   

8.4.  Specific Performance . Each Party agrees that the Licensed Intellectual Property
is unique, and each Party hereby acknowledges and agrees that it and the other Party would be damaged irreparably if any of the provisions of this Agreement are not performed in accordance with their specific terms or otherwise are breached.
Accordingly, each Party shall be entitled to seek specific performance and/or interim relief, and agrees that the arbitral tribunal constituted under Section 8.3(b) shall have the power to order specific performance or grant provisional,
interim, or conservatory measures, including but not limited to provisional injunctive relief. The Parties undertake to comply forthwith with any such provisional, interim, or conservatory measures ordered by the arbitral tribunal and agree that
such measures may, to the extent not precluded by applicable law, be enforceable as a final award in any court of competent jurisdiction. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this provision shall prevent any Party from seeking conservatory or
interim measures, including, but not limited to, temporary restraining orders or preliminary injunctions or their equivalent, from any court of competent jurisdiction before the arbitral tribunal is constituted under Section 8.3(b) or,
thereafter, upon the order of the arbitral tribunal.      8.5.  No Third Party Beneficiaries . This Agreement shall be
binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the Parties (including the Sanofi Partner and the BMS Partner, each in its capacity as a partner of the SNC Partnership) and permitted sub-licensees and assigns, and nothing herein, express or implied,
is intended to, or shall confer upon, any other Person any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever.      8.6.  Assignment .      (a) Neither of the Parties hereto may assign any of its
rights or obligations to a Third Party under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other Parties and BMS and any assignment without such consent shall be null and void and of no effect. Each Party may assign any of its rights or
obligations under this Agreement to an Affiliate of such Party without the prior written consent of the other Parties and BMS, provided that the assigning Party shall remain liable for its Affiliate s performance hereunder.   
  (b) In no event shall the SNC Partnership or its Affiliates be restricted in their ability to appoint distributors for Clopidogrel
Products or to sublicense their rights hereunder in accordance with the terms hereof, so long as such appointment or sublicensing does not or would not reasonably be expected to result in an assignment in violation of this Section 8.6.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Sanofi and its Affiliates shall be permitted to assign this Agreement without BMS s consent in connection with any divestiture permitted under Section 12.7 of the Definitive Agreement.   
  8.7.  Severability . If any term or other provision hereof is held to be invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by
applicable law or public policy, all other terms and provisions hereof shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic effect or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner
materially adverse to any Party. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of
the Parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      16   

8.8.  Waivers and Amendments . No modification of or amendment to this Agreement shall
be valid unless (i) in a writing signed by both Parties referring specifically to this Agreement and stating the Parties  intention to modify or amend the same and (ii) BMS has provided its prior written consent to such modification
or amendment. Any waiver of any term or condition of this Agreement shall be in a writing signed by the Party sought to be charged with such waiver referring specifically to the term or condition to be waived, and no such waiver shall be deemed to
constitute the waiver of any other breach of the same or of any other provision hereof.      8.9.  Headings . All titles and
captions contained in this Agreement are for the convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation hereof.      8.10.  Entire Agreement . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to the subject matter contained herein and all prior agreements relative thereto which are not
contained herein are hereby terminated.      8.11.  No Partnership or Joint Venture . This Agreement is not intended to
create, and nothing contained herein shall be construed to create an association, joint venture, trust or partnership, or to impose a trust or partnership covenant, obligation or liability on or with regard to the other Party. Each Party shall be
severally responsible for its own covenants, obligations and liabilities as herein provided. Other than the SNC Partnership: (i) no Party shall be under the control of, or shall be deemed to control any other Party; (ii) no Party is the
legal representative, agent, joint venturer or employee of the other Party with respect to this Agreement for any purpose whatsoever, and no Party shall have the right or power to bind the other Party; and (iii) no Party has the right or
authority to assume or create any obligations of any kind or to make any representation or warranty on behalf of any other Party, whether express or implied, or to bind any other Party in any respect whatsoever. The provisions of this Agreement are
intended only for the regulation of relations between the Parties. This Agreement is not intended for the benefit of non-Party creditors, and no rights are granted to non-Party creditors under this Agreement.   
  8.12.  BMS Partner . At such time as the BMS Partner shall cease to hold any direct or indirect ownership interest in the SNC
Partnership, all rights and obligations of BMS and the BMS Partner contained herein shall terminate, except (i) rights and obligations accrued prior to the date that the BMS Partner ceased to hold any ownership interest in the SNC Partnership,
and (ii) as set forth in Section 2.1 with respect to BMS s rights under the New IP Agreement.      8.13.
 Governing Language . The Parties acknowledge that this Agreement may be translated into the French language. The Parties agree that this English language version shall in all respects be the controlling version of this Agreement.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      17   

8.14.  Force Majeure . No Party shall be in default under this Agreement, or shall have
any obligation to the other Party, if such Party is unable to perform under this Agreement by reason of act of God, fire, flood, strike, national emergency or other contingency beyond its reasonable control (a   Force Majeure  ). Such
Party shall give the other Party prompt notice of any interruption of performance on account of Force Majeure, and of the resumption of such performance, and shall keep the other Party informed on a current basis as to the steps being taken to
remove, and the anticipated time of removal of, the circumstances resulting in such Force Majeure. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Section 8.14 shall excuse or suspend the obligation to make any payment due under this Agreement
in the manner and at the time provided herein.      8.15.  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in one or more
counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.      8.16.  Definitive Agreement . For so long as (i) the SNC Partnership is a party to this Agreement and (ii) BMS retains any direct or indirect ownership interest in the SNC Partnership, in
the event of any conflict or inconsistency between any provision of this Agreement and the terms of the Definitive Agreement, the Definitive Agreement shall govern with respect to such provision.   
  [ Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank ]   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      18   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year
first written above.       

SANOFI  

SANOFI PHARMA BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB   

By:  
     
  /s/ Thierry Saugier  

Represented by:   

Name: Thierry Saugier  

Title:   Authorized representative  

SANOFI PARTICIPATIONS   

By:  
     
  /s/ Thierry Saugier   

Name: Thierry Saugier   

Title:   Authorized representative   

Witnessed by:   

BMS INVESTCO S.A.S.   

By:  
     
  /s/ Jean-Christophe Barland   

Name: Jean-Christophe Barland   

Title:   CEO   
    [ Signature Page to Amended and Restated Territory A Clopidogrel License ]   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

SCHEDULE 1A     
    LICENSED PATENTS     
  [*][NOTE: APPROXIMATELY FIVE PAGES OF TEXT ARE OMITTED]       

Country    
     
     Filing    
     
     Application    
      
   Grant   
      
   Patent   
      
   Expiry   
      
   Status     
     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      Schedule 1A -
2   

SCHEDULE 1B     
    LICENSED TRADEMARKS           
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

[*][NOTE: APPROXIMATELY 11 PAGES OF TEXT ARE OMITTED]   

Trademark    
      
   Country   
      
   Class   
      
   Filing date   
      
   Filing number   
      
   Registration date   
      
   Registration number   
      
   Current status   
      
   Next renewal     
     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      Schedule 1B -
1   

SCHEDULE 1C     
    TERRITORY
A  1         
  -     Austria   
  -     France (metropolitan)   
  -     Belgium      -
    Cyprus      -     Denmark      -     Finland      -     Germany   
  -     Greece   
  -     Hong-Kong   
  -     Iceland   
  -     Ireland   
  -     Israel   
  -     Italy   
  -     Korea   
  -     Norway   
  -     United Kingdom   
  -     the Netherlands   
  -     Portugal   
  -     Spain   
  -     Sweden   
  -     Switzerland   
  -     Taiwan   

1      
  Territory A will be deemed to include any new country created by the division, consolidation or name change of the countries listed below.     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

</EX-10.V>

<EX-10.W>
 9
 d450621dex10w.htm
 EX-10.W

EX-10.w 

Exhibit 10w         *Confidential Treatment Requested         
       
  AMENDED AND RESTATED      CLOPIDOGREL      INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LICENSE   
  AGREEMENT      between
     SANOFI   
  and      BRISTOL-MYERS
SQUIBB SANOFI PHARMACEUTICALS HOLDING PARTNERSHIP      dated as of January 1, 2013   

*CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

TABLE OF CONTENTS    

*CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      i   

SCHEDULES        

SCHEDULE 1A  
      
  LICENSED PATENTS   
 
  SCHEDULE 1B  
      
  LICENSED TRADEMARKS   
 
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      ii   

This AMENDED AND RESTATED CLOPIDOGREL INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LICENSE (this
  Agreement  ) dated as of January 1, 2013 is hereby made by and between:      Sanofi, a
 soci t  anonyme  organized and existing under the laws of the French Republic (  Licensor   and      Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership, a Delaware partnership (the   Partnership  ) and, together with Licensor, the   Parties   and, individually,
each a   Party  ).        W I T N E S S E T H:     
  WHEREAS, Licensor previously discovered and patented a new chemical entity known as SR 25990C with the international non-proprietary name
Clopidogrel Hydrogenosulphate (  Clopidogrel        WHEREAS, Licensor, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a Delaware
corporation (  BMS  ) and Sterling Winthrop, Inc., a Delaware corporation (  Sterling  ) entered into a Development Agreement dated July 29, 1993 (the   Development Agreement  ) for, among other
things, the development of Clopidogrel;      WHEREAS, pursuant to an Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of
September 30, 1994 among Eastman Kodak Company, Licensor and Sterling, Licensor acquired certain assets, and assumed certain obligations, of the ethical pharmaceutical business of Sterling, including the rights and obligations of Sterling under
the Development Agreement;      WHEREAS, Licensor and BMS have entered into a Territory B Alliance Support Agreement dated as of
January 1, 1997, as amended as of the date hereof (the   Alliance Support Agreement  ) and have formed through their indirect wholly owned subsidiaries the Partnership pursuant to the partnership agreement dated as of
January 1, 1997, as amended as of the date hereof (the   Partnership Agreement  ) for, among other things, the commercialization of Clopidogrel Products in certain territories, including Territory B (as such terms are defined
herein);      WHEREAS, Licensor, BMS and the Partnership have entered into a Product Know-How License Agreement for Territory B
dated as of January 1, 1997, as amended as of the date hereof (the   Know-How License Agreement  ), pursuant to which Licensor and BMS have granted to the Partnership a license to use certain know-how for the commercialization of
Clopidogrel Products and which was developed by Licensor and BMS under the Development Agreement;      WHEREAS, Licensor owns or
has acquired independent of BMS certain intellectual property, including certain patents, trademarks and know-how, for the commercialization of Clopidogrel Products in certain territories, including Territory B;   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

WHEREAS, Licensor and the Partnership have entered into a Clopidogrel Intellectual Property
License and Supply Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1997, as amended by the Amendment to the Clopidogrel Intellectual Property License and Supply Agreement, dated December 6, 2007 (as amended, the   Original License  ),
pursuant to which Licensor granted to the Partnership a license under certain intellectual property, including certain patents, trademarks and know-how, for the commercialization of Clopidogrel Products in certain territories, including Territory B;
     WHEREAS, the Partnership has been commercializing Clopidogrel Products in Territory B since that date;   
  WHEREAS, Licensor and its Affiliates have the exclusive right, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, to
provide the active substance chemical bulk containing Clopidogrel (the   Clopidogrel Bulk  ) that is required for the development, clinical testing and manufacturing of Clopidogrel Products in Territory B;   
  WHEREAS, pursuant to the Master Restructuring Agreement (the   Definitive Agreement  ), dated as of September 27,
2012, by and between Licensor and BMS, Licensor and BMS have agreed to simplify the overall governance, operating and financial principles of their alliance with respect to Clopidogrel Products, other than in the United States and Puerto Rico; and
     WHEREAS, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Definitive Agreement, Licensor and BMS have agreed to, among
other things, amend and restate the Original License on the terms set forth herein.      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the
mutual covenants and the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Parties hereby agree as follows:       ARTICLE 1
       DEFINITIONS       1.1  Defined Terms . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:        Affiliate ,  when used with reference to any Person, means any other Person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, such Person; provided, however, that, with respect to
Sanofi, the definition of Affiliate shall exclude L Or al, a  soci t  anonyme  organized and existing under the laws of the French Republic. For the purposes of this definition,  control  shall refer to
(a) the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct the management or policies of a Person or to veto any material decision relating to the management or policies of a Person, in each case whether through the ownership of voting
securities, by contract or otherwise; (b) the beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, of securities (excluding general partnership interests) representing at least 50% of the voting power of all outstanding voting securities of a Person;
or (c) the beneficial ownership of at least 50% of the partnership interests of a general partnership.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      2   

Alliance Agreements   has the meaning set forth in the
Alliance Support Agreement.        Alliance Strategic Committee   has the meaning set forth in the
Alliance Support Agreement.        BMS Partner   means Bristol-Myers Squibb Investco, L.L.C., a
partner in the Partnership.        Clopidogrel Intellectual Property   means the Clopidogrel
Know-How and the Licensed Patents.        Clopidogrel Know-How   means any and all technical data,
information, material and other know-how that relate to the manufacturing and purification of the Clopidogrel Bulk, including, without limitation, any analytical methodology, chemical, procedures, protocols, techniques and results of experimentation
and testing, solely owned, developed or acquired by Licensor and its Affiliates as of the date hereof.   
    Clopidogrel Product   means the product or products having as an active ingredient Clopidogrel or any
salt, ester, metabolite or pro-drug thereof.        fixed dose combination   means a pharmaceutical
dosage form containing fixed doses of more than one active ingredient in which all active ingredients are present in a single tablet, capsule or other form and shall expressly exclude so-called  co-packaging  in which separate drugs in
separate dosage forms are sold in a single unit or bundle.        Fixed Dose Combination Product  
means a fixed dose combination containing Clopidogrel.        Functional Committee   means any
Alliance Functional Committee (as such term is defined in the Alliance Support Agreement) or any License Functional Committee (as such term is defined in the Know-How License Agreement).   
    Governmental Authority   means any federal, state or local or any foreign or supranational government,
governmental, regulatory or administrative authority, agency or commission or any court, tribunal or judicial or arbitral body.        License Steering Committee   has the meaning set forth in the Know-How License Agreement.        Licensed Intellectual Property   means the Clopidogrel Intellectual Property and the Product Intellectual Property.   
    Licensed Patents   means the patents and patent applications of Licensor and its Affiliates existing on
the date hereof that relate to Clopidogrel and Clopidogrel Products, as listed on  Schedule 1A  attached hereto and all reissues, renewals, divisions, continuations, continuations-in-part, reexaminations, patent term restorations, patents of
additions and extensions thereof.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      3   

Licensed Trademarks   means the trademarks and registered
trademarks and applications for registered trademarks in Territory B listed on  Schedule 1B  attached hereto, and any trademarks, registered trademarks and applications for registered trademarks that are confusingly similar to or replacements
for the foregoing and that are selected by Licensor for use in connection with Clopidogrel Product.   
    Line Extension   has the meaning set forth in the Know-How License Agreement.   
    MAA   means any marketing authorizations, licenses, approvals, registrations, certificates and exemptions
submitted to or granted by or pending with any Governmental Authority for the purpose of allowing the manufacture, production, supply, marketing, distribution or sale of any Clopidogrel Product in a particular country.   
    Marketing Entity   has the meaning set forth in the Partnership Agreement.   
    Net Sales   means for any given period and with respect to any Clopidogrel Product, the gross amount
invoiced in respect thereof by the Marketing Entities to any Person (excluding any transfers between any Party and its Affiliates solely for purposes of resale, promotional use or clinical trials),  less  (i) quantity and/or cash
discounts, allowances and/or rebates actually allowed or given, (ii) freight, postage and shipping insurance expenses (if separately identified in such invoice), (iii) sales taxes directly related to the sale to the extent included in the
gross invoice price (but not including taxes assessed against the income derived from such sale) and (iv) amounts repaid or credited on account of rejections, outdating or the return of such Clopidogrel Product,  provided that  the [*].
       New Drug Application   means the application required to be filed with the relevant
Governmental Authority in any country in order to obtain approval to market commercially any Clopidogrel Product in such country.        New Indication   has the meaning set forth in the Know-How License Agreement.        New IP Agreement   means the FDC Intellectual Property License Agreement between Licensor and BMS, dated as of the date hereof.   
    Person   means any individual, partnership, firm, corporation,  soci t  anonyme ,
 soci t  en nom collectif ,  soci t  en participation ,  soci t  par actions simplifi e , limited liability company, joint venture, association, trust or other entity or any government
or any agency or political subdivision thereof, as well as any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a person under Section 13(d)(3) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      4   

Product Intellectual Property   means the Product Know-How,
the Licensed Trademarks and the Licensed Patents.        Product Know-How   means any and all
technical data, information, material and other know-how that relate to the formulation of Clopidogrel Products, including, without limitation, any analytical methodology, chemical, toxicological, pharmacological and clinical data, formulae,
procedures, protocols, techniques and results of experimentation and testing, solely owned, developed or acquired by Licensor as of the date hereof.        Safety Problem   has the meaning set forth in the Alliance Support Agreement.        Sanofi Partner   means sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC, a partner in the Partnership.        Territory B   or the   United States   means any State or Commonwealth of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands,
Guam, American Samoa and any other territory, possession or military base of the United States of America.   
    Third Party   means a Person who or which is neither a Party nor an Affiliate of a Party.   
    U.S. Excise Tax   shall mean the  Annual Fee on Branded Prescription Pharmaceutical
Manufacturers  payable by the U.S. Plavix Partnership to the U.S. government under Section 9008 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act of 2010, as amended by Section 1404 of the Health Care and Education
Reconciliation Act of 2010, enacted into law by the United States Congress on 23 March 2010 and amended on 30 March 2010. H.R. 3590, Pub. L. No. 111-148, 124 Stat. 119 (2010), as amended by H.R. 4872, Pub. L. No. 111-152, 124
Stat. 1029 (2010), as the same may hereafter be modified by any successor legislation thereto.        U.S.
Plavix Partnership   shall mean Bristol-Myers Squibb/Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Partnership, the partnership established pursuant to the Partnership Agreement effective as of October 1, 1997 between E.R. Squibb   Sons, Inc. and
sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC, as amended.      1.2  Additional Defined Terms . The following additional defined terms shall have
the meanings set forth in the sections of this Agreement listed below:       

Defined Term   
      
    Section Where Defined    

Agreement  
      
  Preamble   
 
  Alliance Support Agreement  
      
  Recitals   
 
  BMS  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Clopidogrel  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Clopidogrel Bulk  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Definitive Agreement  
      
  Recitals   
 
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      5   

Defined Term   
      
    Section Where Defined    

Development Agreement  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Dispute  
      
  8.3   
 
  Dispute Resolution Notice  
      
  8.3   
 
    Force Majeure  
  ICC   
      
    8.13     8.3    
 
  Know-How License Agreement  
      
  Recitals   
 
  License Termination Date  
      
  6.2(a)   
 
  Licensor  
      
  Preamble   
 
  Notices  
      
  8.1   
 
  Original License  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Partnership Agreement  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Partnership  
      
  Preamble   
 
  Party  
      
  Preamble   
 
  Payment Report  
      
  4.3   
 
    Plavix Supply Agreement  
  Quality Standards   
      
    2.1     5.5    
 
  Sterling  
      
  Recitals   
     ARTICLE 2        GRANT OF LICENSE       2.1  License Grant . Subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, Licensor hereby grants to the Partnership, and the Partnership hereby accepts, an exclusive license for the term hereof under the Product Intellectual Property (a) to sell, offer for sale and import Clopidogrel
Products in Territory B, and (b) to develop Clopidogrel Products for Territory B, including, without limitation, New Indications and Line Extensions thereof;  provided  that the foregoing exclusivity granted in paragraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to Licensor and BMS to the extent of their respective rights (both granted and retained) under the New IP Agreement with respect to Fixed Dose Combination Products.   
  Subject to the occurrence of a change in exclusivity of supply under Section 4.3 of the Plavix Finished Product Supply Agreement
(  Plavix Supply Agreement  ) between sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC, as supplier, and the Partnership, as purchaser, dated as of the date hereof, Licensor hereby grants to the Partnership, subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, an exclusive license under the Product Intellectual Property to manufacture and package, or have manufactured and packaged, the Clopidogrel Products for sale in Territory B, for the term and to the extent needed to cover the period of
exclusivity change.      2.2  No Transfer . The Partnership hereby acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement does not, and
shall not be deemed to, transfer any proprietary ownership interest whatsoever to the Partnership in or to the Licensed Intellectual Property. Nothing herein shall give the Partnership any right, title or interest in or to any of the Licensed
Intellectual Property, except the rights granted pursuant to this Agreement.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      6   

2.3  No Implicit Rights . All of the rights granted hereunder are explicitly stated
herein and nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to grant any implied rights whatsoever to the Partnership in or to the Licensed Intellectual Property.      2.4  Goodwill . The Partnership hereby acknowledges that all goodwill connected with the Licensed Trademarks shall inure to the benefit of Licensor, and the Partnership shall not take any action that
may be detrimental to such goodwill.      2.5  Improvements . Any new or useful invention, process or improvement, patentable
or unpatentable, relating to the formulation of any Clopidogrel Product under the Clopidogrel Intellectual Property developed or acquired by the Partnership during the term hereof shall be the property of the Partnership, which shall have all
ownership rights thereto.      2.6  Original License . The Parties hereby agree that all acts, omissions and occurrences
prior to the date hereof, and all rights and obligations of the Parties with respect thereto, shall be governed by the terms of the Original License prior to its amendment and restatement in accordance with the terms hereof.   
   ARTICLE 3    
   SUB-LICENSE       3.1  General Sub-License . Except as permitted under Section 3.2 hereof, the Partnership shall not, without the prior written consent of Licensor, sub-license any of its rights and obligations
under this Agreement;  provided, however , that if the representatives of Licensor on any Functional Committee, the Alliance Strategic Committee or the License Steering Committee consensually agree to sub-license any of the Partnership s
rights or obligations hereunder, such agreement shall be deemed to be Licensor s consent for the purposes of this Section 3.1. No such sub-license shall relieve the Partnership of its obligations hereunder.   
  3.2  Sub-License for Alliance Agreements . The Partnership shall sub-license those of its rights and obligations under this
Agreement, to any Affiliate of Licensor or BMS that is a party to any Alliance Agreement, solely for the purposes of permitting such Affiliate to perform its obligations under such Alliance Agreement.   
  3.3  Termination of Sub-License . Licensor shall have the right to require the Partnership to terminate any sub-license hereunder in
the event that the sub-licensee fails to comply in any material respect with, or takes any action contrary to, the terms of such sub-license or any decision made by any Functional Committee, the Alliance Strategic Committee or the License Steering
Committee, and such sub-licensee has failed to remedy such non-compliance within thirty (30) days from its receipt of written notice thereof from Licensor or the Partnership.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      7   

ARTICLE 4        CONSIDERATION       4.1  Discoverer s Remuneration . In consideration
of the rights and licenses granted hereunder, the Partnership shall pay, or shall cause to be paid, directly to Licensor for the term hereof a [*] in the amount of [*] of Net Sales of Clopidogrel Products in Territory B.   
  4.2  Payment . For the term of this Agreement, the Partnership shall pay or cause to be paid to Licensor all amounts due hereunder
on a quarterly basis within sixty (60) days of the end of each calendar quarter. Each such payment shall be accompanied by an accurate statement of the amount of Net Sales of Clopidogrel Products in Territory B during such calendar quarter and
the calculation of all payments to be made to Licensor for such calendar quarter (each a   Payment Report  ).   
  4.3  Method of Payment . All payments to be made hereunder shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds, and shall
be made in US dollars to the bank account of Licensor as notified to the Partnership, unless the Parties agree to settle such payments through other means.      4.4  Records . The Partnership shall maintain (i) books, records and accounts which accurately and fairly reflect, in reasonable detail, the Net Sales of Clopidogrel Products in Territory B and
(ii) an adequate system of internal accounting controls. All books, records and accounts referred to in clause (i) above shall be maintained for not less than [*], or for such longer period if and as required by applicable law, following
the date of the sales constituting the Net Sales and shall be made available for reasonable review upon request by Licensor.   
  4.5  Payment Reports . (a) At the request of Licensor, the Partnership shall, and shall if applicable cause its sub-licensees
to, permit Licensor or an independent, certified public accountant not having any significant relation to either BMS or Licensor, as appointed by Licensor, at reasonable times and upon reasonable notice, to examine the books and records of the
Partnership as may be necessary to (i) determine, with respect to any calendar quarter ending not more than [*] prior to the related request, the correctness of any Payment Report or payment made under this Agreement or any Alliance Agreement
or (ii) obtain information as to the amount payable for any such calendar quarter in the case of failure on the part of the Partnership to report or pay pursuant to this Agreement or on the part of any party to any Alliance Agreement; provided,
however, that Licensor shall not have the right to make such audit request more than once every [*]. The results of any such audit shall be promptly made available to BMS, Licensor and the Partnership.   
  (b) Licensor shall bear the full cost and expense of any such audit, unless such audit discloses that the amount due to Licensor is more
than the amount paid by [*] of the amount due, in which case BMS shall bear the full cost and expense of such audit.      (c) The
determination by an independent, certified public accountant pursuant to this Section 4.5 as to the amount due and payable by the Partnership shall be conclusive and binding on the Parties hereto.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      8   

4.6  Taxes . All payments due under this Agreement shall be paid in full without
deduction, except for taxes (if any) required to be withheld by applicable law in Territory B with respect to such payments. In the event the Partnership is required under applicable law to withhold any tax to the revenue authorities in any country
in Territory B regarding any payment to Licensor, the amount of such tax shall be deducted by the Partnership and paid to the relevant revenue authority, and the Partnership shall notify Licensor thereof and shall promptly furnish to Licensor all
copies of any tax certificate or other documentation evidencing such withholding. In the event that any such tax shall subsequently be found to be due, payment of such tax shall be the responsibility of Licensor.   
   ARTICLE 5    
   TRADEMARKS; PATENTS; INFRINGEMENT       5.1  Maintenance . Subject to Article X of the Alliance Support Agreement, Licensor shall maintain in full force and effect all Licensed Patents and Licensed Trademarks for the term of this Agreement
and shall bear all costs and expenses related thereto. In the event that Licensor or the Partnership becomes aware of a registration for or an application to register a trademark which it believes is reasonably likely to conflict with any Licensed
Trademark, it shall promptly inform the other Party in writing of the same, giving particulars thereof. Licensor shall have the first right to commence an opposition or cancellation proceeding against such trademark application or registration. If
Licensor decides not to commence an opposition or cancellation proceeding, it shall promptly inform the Partnership in writing of the same and the Partnership shall have the right, but not the obligation to commence an opposition or cancellation
proceeding against the trademark application or registration. The cost and expenses of any such opposition or cancellation proceeding commenced by either Licensor or the Partnership shall be borne by the Partnership. Each Party shall execute all
necessary and proper documents and take such actions as shall be appropriate to assist the other Party in commencing and prosecuting such opposition or cancellation proceeding.      5.2  Registration . The Licensed Trademarks in Territory B are filed and shall be maintained in the name of Licensor. The Partnership shall execute and deliver to Licensor, in such form as Licensor
shall reasonably request, any and all documents which may be necessary or desirable to assist Licensor in renewing the Licensed Trademarks, or in recording the Partnership as a registered user of the Licensed Trademarks, if necessary.   
  5.3  Undertaking of the Partnership . The Partnership agrees not to register or attempt to register in any country in Territory B any
trade name, trademark, service mark, certification mark or logo that is confusingly similar to, or that contains elements that are confusingly similar to, any Licensed Trademark.   
  5.4  Compliance . The Partnership shall comply with all notice and marking requirements under applicable intellectual property laws
and labeling requirements under applicable law that are necessary or advisable for the protection and enforcement of the Licensed Trademarks or the Licensed Patents. The Partnership shall further comply with all applicable laws and regulations
related to the manufacture, marketing, distribution and sale of Clopidogrel Products in Territory B.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      9   

5.5  Quality Standards . Licensor, and where relevant the Partnership pursuant to a
change in exclusivity of supply under the Plavix Supply Agreement, shall make or have made Clopidogrel Products according to the quality standards established in accordance with the New Drug Applications and the MAAs (the   Quality
Standards  ). All promotional and packaging materials to be used in connection with Clopidogrel Products shall be submitted to Licensor so that Licensor may ensure the correct use of the Licensed Trademarks thereon, and the Partnership shall
not use any such promotional or packaging materials without the prior consent of Licensor (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld);  provided, however , that such consent shall be deemed to have been given if Licensor shall not have
provided Notice to the Partnership of its objection to any such promotional or packaging material within fifteen (15) days after its receipt thereof, and  provided, further,  that such consent shall be deemed to have been given with regard
to packaging materials as long as Licensor or Licensor s Affiliates continue to exclusively pack the Clopidogrel Products under the Plavix Supply Agreement.      5.6  Quality Control . If, as a result of a change in exclusivity of supply under the Plavix Supply Agreement, the Partnership uses manufacturers and/or packers other than Licensor or Licensor s
Affiliates, the Partnership shall carry out quality control tests that are customary in the pharmaceutical industry to determine that all Clopidogrel Products and packaging related thereto sold by or on behalf of the Partnership conform to the
Quality Standards. The Partnership shall keep full and complete testing records, which shall be made available for reasonable review upon request by Licensor. Upon reasonable request, the Partnership shall permit Licensor to inspect the
manufacturing and/or packing facilities used by or on behalf of the Partnership and, during such inspection, Licensor shall have the right to make such tests as it deems necessary to ensure that the Quality Standards are being maintained.
     5.7  Failure to Meet Standards . The Partnership agrees that Clopidogrel Products not meeting the Quality Standards
shall not be labeled or used or offered for sale under the Licensed Trademarks. Unless otherwise agreed, any products that are not Clopidogrel Products may not be advertised or otherwise promoted, directly or indirectly, by the Partnership with any
reference to the Licensed Trademarks, and the Partnership shall instruct its distributors to comply with this restriction.   
  5.8  Patent and Trademark Infringement . During the term of this Agreement, if the Partnership or Licensor becomes aware of the
infringement or threatened infringement of any Licensed Patent or Licensed Trademark, it shall promptly notify the other Party in writing of the same, giving particulars thereof. Licensor shall have the first right to institute an action based on
such infringement or threatened infringement and shall be responsible for the conduct of such action. The Partnership shall assist and cooperate with Licensor to the extent necessary in the conduct of such action. If Licensor notifies the
Partnership in writing that it does not propose to take action against the infringer, or if within two (2) months of notification of the infringement or threatened infringement, Licensor has taken no demonstrable action to enjoin or address
such infringement or threatened infringement against the infringer, the Partnership shall   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      10   

have the right, but not the obligation, to institute an infringement action. The costs and expenses of any such infringement action (including, without limitation, fees of attorneys and other
professionals) shall be borne by the Partnership. Each Party shall execute all necessary and proper documents and take such actions as shall be appropriate to allow the other Party to institute and prosecute such infringement actions and Licensor
shall, if required, lend its name to enable the Partnership to conduct the proceedings. Any award or other consideration paid by Third Parties as a result of an infringement action (whether by way of settlement or otherwise) shall be allocated
between Licensor and BMS on the basis of [*] applied to the date as of which the award or other consideration is received.   
  5.9  Notification of Infringement . In the event of the institution of any suit by a Third Party against either Party or any of
their respective Affiliates for patent and/or trademark infringement and/or infringement of any other intellectual property rights involving Clopidogrel or Clopidogrel Products in Territory B, such Party shall promptly notify the other Party in
writing of such suit. Licensor shall have the first right to conduct the defense of any such suit. Licensor shall notify the Partnership within a reasonable amount of time after notification of the institution of such a suit if it elects not to
defend such suit. If Licensor does not elect to defend such suit, the Partnership shall have the right, but not the obligation, to conduct the defense of such suit. The costs and expenses of any such suit (including, without limitation, fees of
attorneys and other professionals) shall be borne by the Partnership. Each Party hereby agrees to assist and cooperate with the other Party, to the extent necessary, in the defense of such suit. Any award or other consideration paid by a Third Party
as a result of such suit (whether by way of settlement or otherwise) shall be allocated between Licensor and BMS on the basis of [*] applied to the date as of which the award or other consideration is received.   
  5.10  Invalidity or Nullity . Licensor shall have the first right to conduct the defense of any suit brought by a Third Party based
on the invalidity or nullity of a Licensed Patent other than an action instituted by way of counterclaim in an action for infringement of a Licensed Patent, in which case the Party conducting the infringement action shall have the right to conduct
the defense. The Partnership shall assist and cooperate with Licensor to the extent necessary in the defense of such suit. If Licensor notifies the Partnership in writing that it does not propose to conduct the defense of such suit, or if within two
(2) months of notification of such suit, Licensor has taken no demonstrable action to conduct the defense of such suit, the Partnership shall have the right, but not the obligation, to conduct the defense of such suit. The costs and expenses of
any such action (including, without limitation, fees of attorneys and other professionals) shall be borne by the Partnership. Each Party shall execute all necessary and proper documents and take such actions as shall be appropriate to allow the
other Party to conduct the defense of such suit and Licensor shall, if required, lend its name to enable the Partnership to conduct the proceedings. Any award or other consideration paid by a Third Party as a result of such suit (whether by way of
settlement or otherwise) shall be allocated between Licensor and BMS on the basis of [*] applied to the date as of which the award or other consideration is received.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      11   

5.11  [*]  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in the Alliance
Support Agreement, Licensor shall have no obligation to maintain, prosecute or defend any patent set forth on  Schedule 1A  hereto under the heading [*].       ARTICLE 6        TERM; TERMINATION    
  6.1  Term; Termination . (a) The term of this Agreement shall commence on the date hereof and shall expire on December [*],
2019. Thereafter, the term of this Agreement may be renewed for successive three-year terms by the mutual agreement of the Parties no later than 24 months prior to the expiration of the term then in effect.   
  (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement shall automatically expire upon the earlier of (i) the termination by both Parties
of the commercialization of Clopidogrel Products throughout Territory B as the result of a Safety Problem pursuant to Section 7.04 (iii) of the Alliance Support Agreement and (ii) the exercise by BMS of the special put option pursuant
to Section 7.08 of the Alliance Support Agreement.      (c) This Agreement may be terminated by the mutual written consent of
each of Licensor, the Sanofi Partner and the BMS Partner.      (d) Licensor shall have the right to declare termination of this
Agreement upon Notice to the Partnership, following the first to occur of:      (i) the BMS Partner shall have
(A) voluntarily commenced any proceeding or filed any petition seeking relief under Title 11 of the United States Code, Book VI of the French Commercial Code (legislative part as well as regulatory part) or any other bankruptcy, insolvency or
similar law of the United States, any state thereof, the French Republic or any other applicable jurisdiction, (B) applied for or consented to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conciliator, administrator or
similar official for it or for all or substantially all of its property, (C) filed an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against or in respect of it in any such proceeding, (D) made a general assignment for the
benefit of creditors of all or substantially all of its assets, (E) become unable generally, or admitted in writing its inability to, pay all or substantially all of its debts as they become due or (F) taken corporate action for the
purpose of effecting any of the foregoing; or      (ii) an involuntary proceeding shall have been commenced or any
involuntary petition shall have been filed in a court of competent jurisdiction seeking (A) relief in respect of the BMS Partner, or of its property, under Title 11 of the United States Code, Book VI of the French Commercial Code (legislative
part as well as regulatory part) or any other bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law of the United States, any state thereof, the French Republic or any other applicable jurisdiction, (B) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian,
sequestrator, conciliator, administrator or similar official for the BMS Partner or for all or substantially all of its property or (C) the winding-up or liquidation of the BMS Partner; and such proceeding or petition shall have continued
undismissed for sixty (60) days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall have continued unstayed and in effect for thirty (30) days.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      12   

6.2  Consequences of Termination . (a) Upon the expiration or early termination of
this Agreement pursuant to Section 6.1 hereof (the   License Termination Date  ):      (i) the
terms and conditions of Section 7.07 of the Alliance Support Agreement shall apply, except in the event of early termination pursuant to Section 6.1(b) hereof;   
  (ii) the Partnership shall cease, and shall cause each sub-licensee (if any) to cease, all activities related to the
Licensed Intellectual Property; and      (iii) the Partnership shall pay in full all amounts due to Licensor
hereunder within ten (10) days after the final determination of Net Sales for such period, including the License Termination Date, pursuant to Sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.5 hereof which shall survive until the full payment of all amounts under this
clause (iii).      (b) In the event of the termination of the commercialization of the Clopidogrel Products in any country of
Territory B pursuant to Section 7.02 of the Alliance Support Agreement:      (i) the terms and conditions of
Section 6.2(a)(ii)-(iii) hereof shall apply,  mutatis mutandis , with respect to such country; and      (ii) all rights and licenses granted by Licensor hereunder with respect to such country shall revert to Licensor, subject to Section 7.03 of the Alliance Support Agreement.   
  (c) Expiration or early termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Article 6 shall be without prejudice to any rights which shall have
accrued to the benefit of any Party prior to such expiration or termination. Such expiration or termination shall not relieve any Party from its obligations which are expressly indicated to survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.
All of the Parties  rights and obligations under this subclause (c) and under Sections 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 6.2, 8.2-8.4, Article 7 and, with respect to actions or suits commenced prior to the date of expiration or early termination hereof and
until each such action or suit is finally resolved, Sections 5.1, 5.8, 5.9 and 5.10 hereof, shall survive such expiration or termination for the applicable period.       ARTICLE 7        CONFIDENTIALITY    
  All of the data, material and information exchanged by the Parties hereunder or related hereto (including, without limitation, the
Licensed Intellectual Property) shall be subject to the confidentiality provisions of the Alliance Support Agreement as set forth in Section 5.03 thereof.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      13   

ARTICLE 8        MISCELLANEOUS       8.1  Notices . All notices, requests or other
communications hereunder (collectively,   Notices  ) shall be in writing, shall be in the English language and shall be given or made by delivery in person, by courier service, by facsimile (with receipt confirmed) or by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested, with postage prepaid) to the respective Parties at the following addresses:      If to
Licensor, to:      Sanofi      54, rue la Bo tie      75008 Paris, France   
  Attention: Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel   
  Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.43.03      Attention: Vice President, Alliances   Partnerships      Facsimile: (33.1)
53.77.40.99      with a copy to:      Weil Gotshal   Manges      767 Fifth Avenue   
  New York NY 10153      Attention: [omitted]      Facsimile: 212 310 8007   
  If to the Partnership, to:      Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership      P.O. Box 4000
     Route 206   Province Line Road      Princeton, NJ 08543-4000, USA      Attention: Vice President and Associate General
Counsel, Transactional Practice Group      Facsimile: (1 609) 252-7680   
  with a copy to each of:      sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC      55 Corporate Drive   
  Bridgewater, NJ 08807 USA      Attention: [omitted]      Facsimile: (908) 981-5705   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      14   

[omitted].      General Counsel, North America      sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC   
  55 Corporate Drive      Bridgewater, NJ 08807      Fax: (908) 981-7833   
  and:      Sanofi
     54, rue la Bo tie      75008 Paris, France      Attention: Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and
General Counsel      Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.43.03      Attention: Vice President, Alliances   Partnerships      Facsimile: (33.1)
53.77.40.99      or to such other address or facsimile number as hereafter shall be furnished as provided in this Section 8.1 by any Party
hereto to the other Party hereto. All Notices given to any Party in accordance with this Section 8.1 shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt if delivered by hand or overnight courier service or sent by facsimile, or on the
date ten (10) business days after dispatch by certified or registered mail (postage prepaid) if mailed.      8.2  Governing
Law . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, United States of America, without regard to the choice of law principles that might otherwise be applied in such jurisdiction.
     8.3  Dispute Resolution .      (a)  Negotiation and Notice . In the event of any dispute, claim, controversy or disagreement (each, a   Dispute  ) arising out of, in connection with or relating to this Agreement
including any question regarding this Agreement s existence, validity or termination, the Parties shall first seek resolution of such Dispute by negotiation between their respective senior management. Such negotiation shall be deemed to
commence upon the service by either Licensor or BMS upon the other of a written notice (a   Dispute Resolution Notice  ) under this  Section 8.3(a) .   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      15   

(b) If a Dispute subject to negotiation under  Section 8.3(a)  is not finally
resolved within thirty (30) days following receipt by either Licensor or BMS of a Dispute Resolution Notice, the Dispute shall be finally resolved by arbitration under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce (the
  ICC  ). The arbitral tribunal shall be composed of three (3) arbitrators. Each of Licensor and BMS shall nominate one (1) arbitrator. The two arbitrators so nominated shall nominate the presiding arbitrator. If either
Licensor or BMS fails to nominate an arbitrator in its Request for Arbitration or within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice of the nomination of an arbitrator by the other Party, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the ICC Court. If
the two (2) arbitrators to be nominated by Licensor and BMS fail to agree upon a third arbitrator within thirty (30) days of the nomination of the second arbitrator, the third arbitrator shall be appointed by the ICC Court. The place of
arbitration shall be Paris, France and the language of the arbitration shall be English. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in the ICC Rules of Arbitration, each Party shall bear its own costs and expenses relating to such arbitration and
all related proceedings, including fees for legal representation. Each Party shall continue to perform its respective obligations under this Agreement and this Agreement shall remain in effect while the Dispute is being resolved. The Parties agree
that any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the Definitive Agreement, or the Settlement Agreement (including the China Opt-Out Letter) or any Alliance Agreement (as such terms are defined in the Definitive Agreement) shall be
resolved in a single arbitration before the ICC, regardless of how many parties or agreements are implicated, and specifically waive any argument that a dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be resolved in multiple arbitrations
before the ICC.      8.4  Specific Performance . Each Party agrees that the Licensed Intellectual Property is unique, and
each Party hereby acknowledges and agrees that it and the other Party would be damaged irreparably if any of the provisions of this Agreement are not performed in accordance with their specific terms or otherwise are breached. Accordingly, each
Party shall be entitled to seek specific performance and/or interim relief, and agrees that the arbitral tribunal constituted under Section 8.3(b) shall have the power to order specific performance or grant provisional, interim, or conservatory
measures, including but not limited to provisional injunctive relief. The Parties undertake to comply forthwith with any such provisional, interim, or conservatory measures ordered by the arbitral tribunal and agree that such measures may, to the
extent not precluded by applicable law, be enforceable as a final award in any court of competent jurisdiction. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this provision shall prevent any Party from seeking conservatory or interim measures, including,
but not limited to, temporary restraining orders or preliminary injunctions or their equivalent, from any court of competent jurisdiction before the arbitral tribunal is constituted under Section 8.3(b) or, thereafter, upon the order of the
arbitral tribunal.      8.5  No Third Party Beneficiaries . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the
benefit of the Parties (including the Sanofi Partner and the BMS Partner, each in its capacity as a partner of the Partnership) and permitted sub-licensees and assigns, and nothing herein, express or implied, is intended to, or shall confer upon,
any other Person any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      16   

8.6  Assignment . (a) This Agreement may be assigned by a Party only to an
Affiliate of Licensor or BMS in the event of a corporate reorganization (including an entity that becomes an Affiliate in connection with such reorganization) involving the assumption of all or substantially all of such Party s marketing or
manufacturing functions in Territory B by such Affiliate, in which event the rights may be assigned and the obligations may be delegated to such Affiliate.      (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in subclause (a) above, this Agreement may be assigned, in whole or in part, by, or on behalf of, the Partnership as a result of a termination
event under either Section 7.04 or Section 7.06 of the Alliance Support Agreement or as a result of the dissolution of the Partnership (other than for a Safety Problem) and in any such event shall be deemed to be amended and restated
(i) to delete Section 3.2 hereof, as well as any reference to the Alliance Support Agreement, and (ii) to insert those terms and conditions that are then customary in the pharmaceutical industry for an intellectual property license
agreement, including, without limitation, provisions for confidentiality, indemnification and termination for material breach, as well as a diligence requirement that the assignee shall use reasonable commercial efforts to actively promote
Clopidogrel Products (and the remedy for breach of such diligence requirement shall be termination of such amended and restated agreement).      8.7  Severability . If any term or other provision hereof is held to be invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by applicable law or public policy, all other terms and provisions hereof shall
nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic effect or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any Party. Upon such determination that any term or other
provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the Parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the
transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.      8.8  Waivers
and Amendments . No modification of or amendment to this Agreement shall be valid unless in a writing signed by both Parties referring specifically to this Agreement and stating the Parties  intention to modify or amend the same. Any waiver
of any term or condition of this Agreement shall be in a writing signed by the Party sought to be charged with such waiver referring specifically to the term or condition to be waived, and no such waiver shall be deemed to constitute the waiver of
any other breach of the same or of any other provision hereof.      8.9  Headings . All titles and captions contained in this
Agreement are for the convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation hereof.   
  8.10  Entire Agreement . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to the subject matter contained
herein and all prior agreements relative thereto which are not contained herein are hereby terminated.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      17   

8.11  No Partnership or Joint Venture . This Agreement is not intended to create, and
nothing contained herein shall be construed to create an association, joint venture, trust or partnership, or to impose a trust or partnership covenant, obligation or liability on or with regard to the other Party. Each Party shall be severally
responsible for its own covenants, obligations and liabilities as herein provided. Other than the Partnership: (i) no Party shall be under the control of, or shall be deemed to control any other Party; (ii) no Party is the legal
representative, agent, joint venturer or employee of the other Party with respect to this Agreement for any purpose whatsoever, and no Party shall have the right or power to bind the other Party; and (iii) no Party has the right or authority to
assume or create any obligations of any kind or to make any representation or warranty on behalf of any other Party, whether express or implied, or to bind any other Party in any respect whatsoever. The provisions of this Agreement are intended only
for the regulation of relations between the Parties. This Agreement is not intended for the benefit of non-Party creditors, and no rights are granted to non-Party creditors under this Agreement.   
  8.12  Governing Language . The Parties acknowledge that this Agreement may be translated into the French language. The Parties agree
that this English language version shall in all respects be the controlling version of this Agreement.      8.13  Force
Majeure . No Party shall be in default under this Agreement, or shall have any obligation to the other Party, if such Party is unable to perform under this Agreement by reason of act of God, fire, flood, strike, national emergency or other
contingency beyond its reasonable control (a   Force Majeure  ). Such Party shall give the other Party prompt notice of any interruption of performance on account of Force Majeure, and of the resumption of such performance, and shall
keep the other Party informed on a current basis as to the steps being taken to remove, and the anticipated time of removal of, the circumstances resulting in such Force Majeure. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Section 8.13 shall
excuse or suspend the obligation to make any payment due under this Agreement in the manner and at the time provided herein.   
  8.14  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be
an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.      [ Remainder of Page
Intentionally Left Blank ]   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      18   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year
first written above.       

SANOFI  
      
    BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB SANOFI     PHARMACEUTICALS HOLDING     PARTNERSHIP    

By:  
     
    /s/ T. Saugier   

Name: T. Saugier  

Title: Authorized representative  
      
  Represented by:   

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB  
  INVESTCO, L.L.C.    

By:  
      
    /s/ Katherine Kelly    

Name: Katherine Kelly   

Title: Secretary   

Witnessed by:   

SANOFI-AVENTIS U.S. LLC   

By:  
      
    /s/ T. Saugier    

Name: T. Saugier   

Title: Authorized representative   
    [ Signature Page to Amended and Restated Territory B Clopidogrel License ]   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

SCHEDULE 1A     
    LICENSED PATENTS     
   [*][Note: Approximately four pages of text are omitted]        

Country    
      
   Filing   
      
   Application   
      
   Grant   
      
   Patent   
      
   Expiry   
      
   Status    

*CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

SCHEDULE 1B     
    LICENSED TRADEMARKS     
   [*][Table Content Omitted]        

Trademark    
     
     Country    
     
     Type    
      
   Class   
      
   Current Status   
      
   Filing No.   
      
   Filing date   
      
   Reg. No.   
      
   Reg. date   
      
   Next due date     

Trademark    
     
     Country    
     
     Class    
      
   Current Status   
      
   Filing No.   
      
   Filing date   
      
   Reg. No.   
      
   Reg. date   
      
   Next due date           
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

</EX-10.W>

<EX-10.X>
 10
 d450621dex10x.htm
 EX-10.X

EX-10.x 

Exhibit 10x         *Confidential Treatment Requested         
      AMENDED AND RESTATED   
  TERRITORY A PRODUCT KNOW-HOW LICENSE AGREEMENT      among      SANOFI   
  BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY      and      SANOFI PHARMA BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB   
  dated as of January 1, 2013       
      *CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED.
CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

TABLE OF CONTENTS    

*CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      i   

SCHEDULES       SCHEDULE 1A       TERRITORY A   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      ii   

This AMENDED AND RESTATED PRODUCT KNOW-HOW LICENSE AGREEMENT (this
  Agreement  ) dated as of January 1, 2013 is hereby made by and among:      Sanofi, a
 soci t  anonyme  organized and existing under the laws of the French Republic (  Sanofi     
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, United States of America
(  BMS   and      Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb, a  soci t  en nom collectif  organized
and existing under the laws of the French Republic (the   SNC Partnership   and, together with Sanofi and BMS, the   Parties   and, individually, each a   Party  ).   
    W I T N E S S E T H :       WHEREAS, Sanofi previously discovered and patented two new chemical entities, one known as SR 47436 with the international non-proprietary name Irbesartan (  Irbesartan  ) and one known as
SR 25990C with the international non-proprietary name Clopidogrel Hydrogenosulphate (  Clopidogrel     
  WHEREAS, Sanofi, BMS and Sterling Winthrop Inc., a Delaware corporation (  Sterling  ) entered into a Development
Agreement dated July 29, 1993 (the   Development Agreement  ) for, among other things, the development of Irbesartan and Clopidogrel;      WHEREAS, pursuant to an Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of September 30, 1994 among Eastman Kodak Company, Sanofi and Sterling, Sanofi acquired certain assets, and assumed
certain obligations, of the ethical pharmaceutical business of Sterling, including the rights and obligations of Sterling under the Development Agreement;      WHEREAS, Sanofi and BMS have entered into a Territory A Alliance Support Agreement dated as of January 1, 1997 (the   Alliance Support Agreement  ) and have formed through their
indirect wholly owned subsidiaries the SNC Partnership for, among other things, the commercialization of the Products in Territory A (as such terms are defined in the Alliance Support Agreement);   
  WHEREAS, Sanofi and the SNC Partnership have entered into an Irbesartan Intellectual Property License Agreement (the   Irbesartan
License Agreement  ) and a Clopidogrel Intellectual Property License and Supply Agreement (the   Clopidogrel License Agreement  ), each dated as of January 1, 1997, pursuant to which Sanofi granted the SNC Partnership a
license to use certain patents, trademarks and know-how that neither were developed with nor are owned by BMS, for the commercialization of the Products in Territory A;      WHEREAS, Sanofi and BMS have developed certain know-how under the Development Agreement for the commercialization of the Products in Territory A and, as a result, each has an undivided one-half direct
ownership interest in the Developed Know-How (as such term is defined herein);   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

WHEREAS, Sanofi, BMS and the SNC Partnership have entered into a Product Know-How License
Agreement (the   Original Agreement  ), dated as of January 1, 1997, pursuant to which Sanofi and BMS granted to the SNC Partnership a license under the Developed Know-How for the commercialization of the Products in Territory A;
     WHEREAS, the SNC Partnership has been commercializing the Products in Territory A since that date;   
  WHEREAS, pursuant to a Master Restructuring Agreement (the   Definitive Agreement  ), dated as of September 27, 2012,
by and between Sanofi and BMS, Sanofi and BMS have agreed to simplify the overall governance, operating and financial principles of their alliance with respect to the Products; and   
  WHEREAS, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Definitive Agreement, Sanofi and BMS have agreed to, among other things,
(i) terminate the Alliance Support Agreement, (ii) amend and restate the Irbesartan License Agreement and the Clopidogrel License Agreement and (iii) amend and restate the Original Agreement on the terms set forth herein.   
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Parties hereby agree to amend
and restate the Original Agreement as follows:       ARTICLE 1    
   DEFINITIONS       1.1  Defined Terms . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:        Affiliate  , when used with reference to any Person, means any other Person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, such Person; provided, however, that, with respect to
Sanofi, the definition of Affiliate shall exclude L Or al, a  soci t  anonyme  organized and existing under the laws of the French Republic. For the purposes of this definition,  control  shall refer to
(a) the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct the management or policies of a Person or to veto any material decision relating to the management or policies of a Person, in each case whether through the ownership of voting
securities, by contract or otherwise; (b) the beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, of securities (excluding general partnership interests) representing at least 50% of the voting power of all outstanding voting securities of a Person;
or (c) the beneficial ownership of at least 50% of the partnership interests of a general partnership.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      2   

Clopidogrel Product   means (i) a product with
the sole active ingredient Clopidogrel, in finished form, marketed under the trademarks Plavix      and Iscover      or any trademark that is confusingly similar to or that is a replacement for any such trademark, and (ii) a
product (an   Identified Clopi FDC  ) which contains as the only active ingredients the combination of Clopidogrel with acetylsalicylic acid, in finished form, marketed under the trademarks DuoPlavin     , CoPlavix      and DuoCover      or any
trademark that is confusingly similar to or that is a replacement for any such trademark. For the avoidance of doubt, Clopidogrel Products shall exclude any Fixed Dose Combination Products.   
    Developed Know-How   means any and all technical data, information, material and other know-how that relate to the
formulation of the Products, including, without limitation, any analytical methodology, chemical, toxicological, pharmacological and clinical data, formulae, procedures, protocols, techniques and results of experimentation and testing, developed by
Sanofi and BMS under the Development Agreement.        fixed dose combination   means a pharmaceutical dosage form
containing fixed doses of more than one active ingredient in which all active ingredients are present in a single tablet, capsule or other form and shall expressly exclude so-called  co-packaging  in which separate drugs in separate dosage
forms are sold in a single unit or bundle.        Fixed Dose Combination Product   means a fixed dose combination
containing Clopidogrel or Irbesartan (other than the Identified Clopi FDCs and the Identified Irbe FDCs).   
    Governmental Authority   means any federal, state or local or any foreign or supranational government, governmental,
regulatory or administrative authority, agency or commission or any court, tribunal or judicial or arbitral body.   
    Identified Clopi FDC   has the meaning set forth in the definition of Clopidogrel Product.   
    Identified Irbe FDC   has the meaning set forth in the definition of Irbesartan Product.   
    IFRS Net Sales   means, with respect to a Product, net sales of Sanofi (or its Affiliates or their respective licensees
or sublicensees) as audited and reported in Euros by Sanofi (or its Affiliates or licensees) in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (  IFRS  ), as IFRS may be modified from time to time. For the avoidance of
doubt: (a) IFRS Net Sales shall not include samples, compassionate use of the Products and the like;  provided  that revenue from Products sold to third parties for clinical trial purposes shall be included in IFRS Net Sales; and
(b) any Damages (as defined in the Definitive Agreement) paid by Sanofi pursuant to Article IX of the Definitive Agreement shall not be treated as a deduction for purposes of calculating IFRS Net Sales. In calculating IFRS Net Sales, the
Parties shall disregard any related Know-How, Discovery or other royalties paid to Sanofi after January 1, 2013 on Clopidogrel Products or Irbesartan Products.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      3   

Irbesartan Product   means: (a) a product with
the sole active ingredient Irbesartan, in finished form, marketed under the trademarks Aprovel     , Karvea      and Avapro      or any trademark that is confusingly similar to or that is a replacement for any such trademark; and (b) a product (an   Identified Irbe FDC  )
which contains as the only active ingredients the combination of Irbesartan with Hydrochlorothiazide, in finished form, marketed under the trademarks CoAprovel     , Avalide      and Karvezide      or any trademark that is confusingly similar to or that is a replacement for any such trademark. For the avoidance
of doubt, Irbesartan Products shall exclude any Fixed Dose Combination Products.        Lease Agreement   means the
Business Lease Agreement between the SNC Partnership and Sanofi Winthrop Industrie, dated as of the date hereof.        New
IP Agreement   means the FDC Intellectual Property License Agreement between Sanofi and BMS, dated as of the date hereof.        Person   means any individual, partnership, firm, corporation,  soci t  anonyme ,  soci t  en nom collectif ,  soci t  en
participation ,  soci t  par actions simplifi e , limited liability company, joint venture, association, trust or other entity or any government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, as well as any syndicate or
group that would be deemed to be a person under Section 13(d)(3) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   
    Product   means a Clopidogrel Product or an Irbesartan Product and   Products   means both a Clopidogrel
Product and an Irbesartan Product.        Territory A   means the countries and geographic areas described and
listed in  Schedule 1A  attached hereto.        Third Party   means a Person who or which is neither a Party
nor an Affiliate of a Party.        U.S.   or   United States   means any State or Commonwealth of
the United States of America, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa and any other territory, possession or military base of the United States of America.   
  1.2  Additional Defined Terms . The following additional defined terms shall have the meanings set forth in the sections of this
Agreement listed below:       

Defined Term   
      
  Section Where Defined   

Agreement   
      
  Preamble   
 
    Alliance Support Agreement   
      
  Recitals   
 
    BMS   
      
  Preamble   
 
    Clopidogrel   
      
  Recitals   
 
    Clopidogrel License Agreement   
      
  Recitals   
 
    Definitive Agreement   
      
  Recitals    
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      4   

Defined Term   
      
  Section Where Defined   

Development Agreement   
      
  Recitals   
 
    Development Royalty  
  Dispute     Dispute Resolution Notice   
      
  4.1     7.3  
  7.3    
 
    Force Majeure   
      
  7.14   
 
    ICC   
      
  7.3   
 
    IFRS   
      
  1.1   
 
    Irbesartan   
      
  Recitals   
 
    Irbesartan License Agreement   
      
  Recitals   
 
    License Termination Date   
      
  5.2   
 
    Notices   
      
  7.1   
 
    Original Agreement   
      
  Recitals   
 
    Party   
      
  Preamble   
 
    Sanofi   
      
  Preamble   
 
    SNC Partnership   
      
  Preamble   
 
    Sterling   
      
  Recitals   
     ARTICLE 2        GRANT OF LICENSE       2.1  License Grant . Subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, Sanofi and BMS each separately grant to the SNC Partnership an exclusive license for the term hereof in their respective undivided one-half direct ownership interest in the Developed Know-How, and the SNC Partnership
hereby accepts, an exclusive license for the term hereof under the Developed Know-How, to make, have made, sell, offer for sale and import the Products in Territory A;  provided, however,  that the foregoing exclusivity shall not apply to
Sanofi and BMS to the extent of their respective rights under the New IP Agreement with respect to Fixed Dose Combination Products and the manufacture of Irbesartan Products as set forth therein, and each of Sanofi and BMS retain all of their
respective rights under the Developed Know-How with respect to Fixed Dose Combination Products, subject to the licenses granted under the New IP Agreement.      2.2  No Transfer . The SNC Partnership hereby acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement does not, and shall not be deemed to, transfer any proprietary ownership interest whatsoever to the SNC
Partnership in or to the Developed Know-How. Nothing herein shall give the SNC Partnership any right, title or interest in or to any of the Developed Know-How, except the rights granted pursuant to this Agreement.   
  2.3  No Implicit Rights . All of the rights granted hereunder are explicitly stated herein and nothing in this Agreement shall be
construed to grant any implied rights whatsoever to the SNC Partnership in or to the Developed Know-How.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      5   

2.4  Goodwill . The SNC Partnership hereby acknowledges that all goodwill connected
with the Sanofi and BMS corporate names shall inure to the benefit of Sanofi and BMS, as the case may be, and the SNC Partnership shall not take any action that may be detrimental to such goodwill.   
  2.5  Corporate Name Authorization . The SNC Partnership, Sanofi and its Affiliates shall be permitted to use the BMS Brands (as
defined in the Definitive Agreement) pursuant to and in accordance with Section 7.1 of the Definitive Agreement.      2.6
 Location-G rance . For the avoidance of doubt, Sections 2.2 2.4 hereof shall not prevent the SNC Partnership from leasing its business pursuant to the Lease Agreement.   
   ARTICLE 3    
   SUB-LICENSE       3.1  General Sub-License . The SNC Partnership shall not, without the prior written consent of both Sanofi and BMS, sub-license any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, except as
permitted under, and subject to the terms of, the Lease Agreement.      3.2  Termination of Sub-License . Sanofi and BMS each
shall have the right to require the SNC Partnership to terminate any sub-license of rights hereunder in the event that the sub-licensee fails to comply in any material respect with, or takes any action contrary to, the terms of such sub-license, and
such sub-licensee has failed to remedy such non-compliance within thirty (30) days from its receipt of written notice thereof from Sanofi, BMS or the SNC Partnership.       ARTICLE 4        CONSIDERATION    
  4.1  Development Royalty . In consideration of the rights and licenses granted hereunder, the SNC Partnership shall pay, or shall
cause to be paid, for the term of this Agreement the following aggregate amounts as a development royalty (each a   Development Royalty  ),  provided  that, with respect to BMS, such royalty payments shall cease as of
December 31, 2018 and the license granted by BMS to the SNC Partnership under this Agreement shall become [*] and [*] as of such date:      (i) To each of Sanofi and BMS, an amount equal to [*] of IFRS Net Sales of Irbesartan Products in Territory A; and      (ii) To each of Sanofi and BMS, an amount equal to [*] of IFRS Net Sales of Clopidogrel Products in Territory A.      4.2  Payment . For the term of this Agreement, the SNC Partnership shall pay or cause to be paid to each of Sanofi and BMS all amounts due hereunder on a quarterly basis within sixty (60) days
of the end of each calendar quarter. Each such payment shall be accompanied by an accurate statement of the amount of IFRS Net Sales of the Products in Territory A, broken down Product-by-Product, during such calendar quarter and the calculation of
all payments to be made to each of Sanofi and BMS for such calendar quarter.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      6   

4.3  Method of Payment . (a) All payments to be made hereunder shall be made by
wire transfer in immediately available funds, and shall be made in euros to the respective bank accounts of Sanofi and BMS as notified to the SNC Partnership by the relevant Party, unless the Parties agree to settle such payments through other
means.      (b) Amounts due from the SNC Partnership to BMS or Sanofi in respect of sales based on a currency other than Euros
shall be converted to Euros using the methodology determined for such purpose by Licensor in calculating IFRS Net Sales.      4.4
 Records . The SNC Partnership shall maintain (i) books, records and accounts which accurately and fairly reflect, in reasonable detail, the IFRS Net Sales of the Products in Territory A and (ii) an adequate system of internal
accounting controls. All books, records and accounts referred to in clause (i) above shall be maintained for not less than [*] or for such longer period if and as required by applicable law, following the date of the sales constituting the IFRS
Net Sales and shall be made available for reasonable review upon request by Sanofi and/or BMS.      4.5  Taxes . All payments
due under this Agreement shall be paid in full without deduction, except for taxes (if any) required to be withheld by applicable law in Territory A with respect to such payments. In the event the SNC Partnership is required under applicable law to
withhold any tax to the revenue authorities in any country in Territory A regarding any payment to Sanofi and/or BMS, the amount of such tax shall be deducted by the SNC Partnership and paid to the relevant revenue authority, and the SNC Partnership
shall notify the relevant Party thereof and shall promptly furnish to such Party all copies of any tax certificate or other documentation evidencing such withholding. In the event that any such tax shall subsequently be found to be due, payment of
such tax shall be the responsibility of Sanofi or BMS, as the case may be.       ARTICLE 5    
   TERM; TERMINATION       5.1  Term; Termination . (a) The term of this Agreement, with respect to each Product, shall commence on the date hereof and shall expire on December 31, 2018. Thereafter, this Agreement
shall be automatically renewed for successive three-year terms, respectively.      (b) The Parties may cause the early termination
of this Agreement by the mutual written consent of each of the Parties.      (c) Either BMS or Sanofi shall have the right to
declare termination of this Agreement upon Notice to the other Parties, following the first to occur of:   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      7   

(i) such other Party shall have (A) voluntarily commenced any
proceeding or filed any petition seeking relief under Title 11 of the United States Code, Book VI of the French Commercial Code (legislative part as well as regulatory part) or any other bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law of the United States,
any state thereof, the French Republic or any other applicable jurisdiction, (B) applied for or consented to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conciliator, administrator or similar official for it or for all or
substantially all of its property, (C) filed an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against or in respect of it in any such proceeding, (D) made a general assignment for the benefit of creditors of all or
substantially all of its assets, (E) become unable generally, or admitted in writing its inability to, pay all or substantially all of its debts as they become due or (F) taken corporate action for the purpose of effecting any of the
foregoing; or      (ii) an involuntary proceeding shall have been commenced or any involuntary petition shall have
been filed in a court of competent jurisdiction seeking (A) relief in respect of such other Party, or of its property, under Title 11 of the United States Code, Book VI of the French Commercial Code (legislative part as well as regulatory part)
or any other bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law of the United States, any state thereof, the French Republic or any other applicable jurisdiction, (B) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conciliator,
administrator or similar official for such other Party or for all or substantially all of its property or (C) the winding-up or liquidation of such other Party; and such proceeding or petition shall have continued undismissed for sixty
(60) days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall have continued unstayed and in effect for thirty (30) days.      5.2  Consequences of Termination .      (a) Upon the expiration or early
termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 5.1 hereof (the   License Termination Date  ):      (i) the
SNC Partnership shall cease, and shall cause each sub-licensee (if any) to cease, all activities related to the Developed Know-How; and      (ii) the SNC Partnership shall pay in full all amounts due to Sanofi and/or BMS hereunder within ten (10) days after the final determination of IFRS Net Sales for such period, including the License
Termination Date, pursuant to Sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.5 hereof which shall survive until the full payment of all amounts under this clause (ii).      (b) Expiration or early termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Article 5 shall be without prejudice to any rights which shall have accrued to the benefit of any Party prior to such expiration
or termination. Such expiration or termination shall not relieve any Party from its obligations which are expressly indicated to survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement. All of the Parties  rights and obligations under this
subclause (b) and under Sections 4.4, 4.5, 5.2 and 7.2 7.4 and Article 6 hereof shall survive such expiration or termination for the applicable period.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      8   

ARTICLE 6        CONFIDENTIALITY       All of the data, material and information exchanged by
the Parties hereunder or related hereto (including, without limitation, the Developed Know-How) shall be subject to the confidentiality provisions of the Definitive Agreement as set forth in Section 8.8 thereof.   
   ARTICLE 7    
   MISCELLANEOUS       7.1  Notices . All notices, requests or other communications hereunder (collectively,   Notices  ) shall be in writing, shall be in the English language and shall be given or made by
delivery in person, by courier service, by facsimile (with receipt confirmed) or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested, with postage prepaid) to the respective Parties at the following addresses:   
  If to Sanofi, to:      Sanofi      54, rue la Bo tie   
  75008 Paris, France      Attention: Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel      Facsimile:
(33.1) 53.77.43.03      Attention: Vice President, Alliances   Partnerships   
  Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.40.99      with a copy to:      Weil Gotshal   Manges   
  767 Fifth Avenue   
  New York NY 10153   
  Attention: [omitted]      Facsimile: 212 310 8007      If to BMS, to:   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company      P.O. Box 4000      Route 206   Province Line Road   
  Princeton, NJ 08543-4000 USA   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      9   

Attention: Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Transactional Practice Group
     Facsimile: (1-609) 252-7680      with a copy to:      Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP   
  7 World Trade Center      250 Greenwich Street      New York, NY 10007 USA   
  Attention: [omitted]      Facsimile: (212) 230-8888      If to the SNC Partnership, to:   
  Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb      54, rue la Bo tie      75008 Paris, France   
  Attention: Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel   
  Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.43.03      Attention: Vice President, Alliances   Partnerships   
  Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.40.99      with a copy to:      Bristol-Myers Squibb Company   
  P.O. Box 4000   
  Route 206   Province Line Road      Princeton, NJ 08543-4000 USA      Attention: Vice President and Associate General
Counsel, Transactional Practice Group      Facsimile: (1-609) 252-7680      or to such other address or facsimile number as hereafter shall be furnished as provided in this Section 7.1 by any Party hereto to the other Parties hereto. All Notices given to any Party in
accordance with this Section 7.1 shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt if delivered by hand or overnight courier service or sent by facsimile, or on the date ten (10) business days after dispatch by certified or
registered mail (postage prepaid) if mailed.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      10   

7.2  Governing Law . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the State of New York, United States of America, without regard to the choice of law principles that might otherwise be applied in such jurisdiction.      7.3  Dispute Resolution .      (a)  Negotiation and Notice . In the event
of any dispute, claim, controversy or disagreement (each, a   Dispute  ) arising out of, in connection with or relating to this Agreement including any question regarding this Agreement s existence, validity or termination, the
Parties shall first seek resolution of such Dispute by negotiation between their respective senior management. Such negotiation shall be deemed to commence upon the service by either Sanofi or BMS upon the other of a written notice (a
  Dispute Resolution Notice  ) under this  Section 7.3(a) .      (b) If a Dispute subject to negotiation
under  Section 7.3(a)  is not finally resolved within thirty (30) days following receipt by either Sanofi or BMS of a Dispute Resolution Notice, the Dispute shall be finally resolved by arbitration under the Rules of Arbitration of
the International Chamber of Commerce (the   ICC  ). The arbitral tribunal shall be composed of three (3) arbitrators. Each of Sanofi and BMS shall nominate one (1) arbitrator. The two (2) arbitrators so nominated shall
nominate the presiding arbitrator. If either Sanofi or BMS fails to nominate an arbitrator in its Request for Arbitration or within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice of the nomination of an arbitrator by the other Party, such
arbitrator shall be appointed by the ICC Court. If the two (2) arbitrators to be nominated by Sanofi and BMS fail to agree upon a third arbitrator within thirty (30) days of the nomination of the second arbitrator, the third arbitrator
shall be appointed by the ICC Court. The place of arbitration shall be Paris, France and the language of the arbitration shall be English. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in the ICC Rules of Arbitration, each Party shall bear its own
costs and expenses relating to such arbitration and all related proceedings, including fees for legal representation. Each Party shall continue to perform its respective obligations under this Agreement and this Agreement shall remain in effect
while the Dispute is being resolved. The Parties agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the Definitive Agreement, or the Settlement Agreement (including the China Opt-Out Letter) or any Alliance Agreement (as such terms
are defined in the Definitive Agreement) shall be resolved in a single arbitration before the ICC, regardless of how many parties or agreements are implicated, and specifically waive any argument that a dispute arising out of or relating to this
Agreement shall be resolved in multiple arbitrations before the ICC.      7.4  Specific Performance . Each Party agrees that
the Developed Know-How is unique, and each Party hereby acknowledges and agrees that it and the other Parties would be damaged irreparably if any of the provisions of this Agreement are not performed in accordance with their specific terms or
otherwise are breached. Accordingly, each Party shall be entitled to seek specific performance and/or interim relief, and agrees that the arbitral tribunal constituted under Section 7.3(b) shall have the power to order specific performance or
grant provisional, interim, or conservatory measures, including but not limited to provisional injunctive relief. The Parties undertake to comply forthwith with any such provisional, interim, or conservatory
  
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      11   

measures ordered by the arbitral tribunal and agree that such measures may, to the extent not precluded by applicable law, be enforceable as a final award in any court of competent jurisdiction.
For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this provision shall prevent any Party from seeking conservatory or interim measures, including, but not limited to, temporary restraining orders or preliminary injunctions or their equivalent, from any court
of competent jurisdiction before the arbitral tribunal is constituted under Section 7.3(b) or, thereafter, upon the order of the arbitral tribunal.      7.5  No Third Party Beneficiaries . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the Parties (including the partners of the SNC Partnership, each in its capacity as partner
thereof) and permitted sub-licensees and assigns, and nothing herein, express or implied, is intended to, or shall confer upon, any other Person any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever.   
  7.6  Assignment .      (a) No Party hereto may assign any of its rights or obligations to a Third Party under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other Parties and any assignment without such consent shall
be null and void and of no effect. Each Party may assign any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement to an Affiliate of such Party without the written consent of the other Parties, provided that the assigning Party shall remain liable for
its Affiliate s performance hereunder.      (b) In no event shall the SNC Partnership or its Affiliates be restricted in
their ability to appoint distributors for Products or to sublicense their rights hereunder in accordance with the terms hereof, so long as such appointment or sublicensing does not or would not reasonably be expected to result in an assignment in
violation of this Section 7.6. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Sanofi and its Affiliates shall be permitted to assign this Agreement without BMS s consent in connection with any divestiture permitted under Section 12.7 of the
Definitive Agreement.      7.7  Severability . If any term or other provision hereof is held to be invalid, illegal or
incapable of being enforced by applicable law or public policy, all other terms and provisions hereof shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic effect or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not
affected in any manner materially adverse to any Party. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect
the original intent of the Parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.   
  7.8  Waivers and Amendments . No modification of or amendment to this Agreement shall be valid unless (i) in a writing signed
by the Parties referring specifically to this Agreement and stating the Parties  intention to modify or amend the same and (ii) BMS has provided its prior written consent to such modification or amendment. Any waiver of any term or
condition   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      12   

of this Agreement shall be in a writing signed by the Party sought to be charged with such waiver referring specifically to the term or condition to be waived, and no such waiver shall be deemed
to constitute the waiver of any other breach of the same or of any other provision hereof.      7.9  Headings . All titles
and captions contained in this Agreement are for the convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation hereof.      7.10  Entire Agreement . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to the subject matter contained herein and all prior agreements relative thereto which are not
contained herein are hereby terminated.      7.11  No Partnership or Joint Venture . This Agreement is not intended to
create, and nothing contained herein shall be construed to create an association, joint venture, trust or partnership, or to impose a trust or partnership covenant, obligation or liability on or with regard to the other Party. Each Party shall be
severally responsible for its own covenants, obligations and liabilities as herein provided. Other than the SNC Partnership: (i) no Party shall be under the control of, or shall be deemed to control any other Party; (ii) no Party is the
legal representative, agent, joint venturer or employee of the other Party with respect to this Agreement for any purpose whatsoever, and no Party shall have the right or power to bind the other Party; and (iii) no Party has the right or
authority to assume or create any obligations of any kind or to make any representation or warranty on behalf of any other Party, whether express or implied, or to bind any other Party in any respect whatsoever. The provisions of this Agreement are
intended only for the regulation of relations between the Parties. This Agreement is not intended for the benefit of non-Party creditors, and no rights are granted to non-Party creditors under this Agreement.   
  7.12  Governing Language . The Parties acknowledge that this Agreement may be translated into the French language. The Parties agree
that this English language version shall in all respects be the controlling version of this Agreement.      7.13
 Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.   
  7.14  Force Majeure . No Party shall be in default under this Agreement, or shall have any obligation to the other Party, if such
Party is unable to perform under this Agreement by reason of act of God, fire, flood, strike, national emergency or other contingency beyond its reasonable control (a   Force Majeure  ). Such Party shall give the other Party prompt
notice of any interruption of performance on account of Force Majeure, and of the resumption of such performance, and shall keep the other Party informed on a current basis as to the steps being taken to remove, and the anticipated time of removal
of, the circumstances resulting in such Force Majeure. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Section 7.14 shall excuse or suspend the obligation to make any payment due under this Agreement in the manner and at the time provided
herein.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      13   

7.15  Definitive Agreement . For so long as (i) the SNC Partnership is a party to
this Agreement and (ii) BMS retains any direct or indirect ownership interest in the SNC Partnership, in the event of any conflict or inconsistency between any provision of this Agreement and the terms of the Definitive Agreement, the
Definitive Agreement shall govern with respect to such provision.      [ Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank ]
  
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      14   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year
first written above.       

SANOFI  

SANOFI PHARMA BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB   

Represented by:   

By:  
     
  /s/ Thierry Saugier  

SANOFI PARTICIPATIONS   

Name: Thierry Saugier  
  Title:   Authorized representative   

By:  
     
  /s/ Thierry Saugier   

Name: Thierry Saugier   
 
  BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY  

Title:   Authorized representative   

Witnessed by:   
 
  By:  
     
  /s/ Katherine Kelly  

Name: Katherine Kelly  

BMS INVESTCO S.A.S.   

Title:   Assistant Secretary  

By:  
     
  /s/ Jean-Christophe Barland   

Name: Jean-Christophe Barland   

Title:   CEO   
    [ Signature Page to Amended and Restated Territory A Know-How License ]   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

SCHEDULE 1A     
    TERRITORY
A  1         
  For Clopidogrel Products:       

-  
  Austria     

-  
  France (metropolitan)     

-  
  Belgium     

-  
  Cyprus     

-  
  Denmark     

-  
  Finland     

-  
  Germany     

-  
  Greece     

-  
  Hong-Kong     

-  
  Iceland     

-  
  Ireland     

-  
  Israel     

-  
  Italy     

-  
  Korea     

-  
  Norway     

-  
  United Kingdom     

-  
  the Netherlands     

-  
  Portugal     

-  
  Spain     

-  
  Sweden     

-  
  Switzerland     

-  
  Taiwan        For Irbesartan Products:   

-  
  France (including overseas territories)     

-  
  Belgium     

-  
  Germany     

-  
  Greece     

-  
  Italy     

-  
  United Kingdom     

-  
  the Netherlands     

-  
  Portugal     

-  
  Spain     

-  
  Switzerland         

1      
  Territory A will be deemed to include any new country created by the division, consolidation or name change of the countries listed below.     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

</EX-10.X>

<EX-10.Y>
 11
 d450621dex10y.htm
 EX-10.Y

EX-10.y 

Exhibit 10y         *Confidential Treatment Requested         
      AMENDED AND RESTATED   
  TERRITORY B PRODUCT KNOW-HOW LICENSE AGREEMENT      among      SANOFI   
  BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY      and      BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB SANOFI PHARMACEUTICALS HOLDING PARTNERSHIP   
  dated as of January 1, 2013       
      *CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT
REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

TABLE OF CONTENTS    

*CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      i   

*CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      ii   

This AMENDED AND RESTATED TERRITORY B PRODUCT KNOW-HOW LICENSE AGREEMENT (this
  Agreement  ) dated as of January 1, 2013 is hereby made by and among:      Sanofi, a
 soci t  anonyme  organized and existing under the laws of the French Republic (  Sanofi     
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, United States of America
(  BMS   and      Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership, a Delaware partnership (the
  Partnership   and, together with Sanofi and BMS, the   Parties   and, individually, each a   Party  ).        W I T N E S S E T H :       WHEREAS, Sanofi previously discovered and
patented a new chemical entity, known as SR 25990C with the international non-proprietary name Clopidogrel Hydrogenosulphate (  Clopidogrel        WHEREAS, Sanofi, BMS and Sterling Winthrop Inc., a Delaware corporation (  Sterling  ) entered into a Development Agreement dated July 29, 1993 (the   Development
Agreement  ) for, among other things, the development of Clopidogrel;      WHEREAS, pursuant to an Amended and Restated
Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of September 30, 1994 among Eastman Kodak Company, Sanofi and Sterling, Sanofi acquired certain assets, and assumed certain obligations, of the ethical pharmaceutical business of Sterling, including the rights
and obligations of Sterling under the Development Agreement;      WHEREAS, Sanofi and BMS have entered into a Territory B Alliance
Support Agreement dated as of January 1, 1997, as amended as of the date hereof (the   Alliance Support Agreement  ) and have formed through their indirect wholly owned subsidiaries the Partnership pursuant to the partnership
agreement dated as of January 1, 1997, as amended as of the date hereof (the   Partnership Agreement  ) for, among other things, the commercialization of the Products in certain territories, including Territory B (as such terms
are defined herein);      WHEREAS, Sanofi and the Partnership have entered into a Clopidogrel Intellectual Property License and
Supply Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1997 and amended and restated as of the date hereof, pursuant to which Sanofi granted a license to the Partnership to use certain patents, trademarks and know-how for the commercialization of the
Products in certain territories, including Territory B, that neither were developed with nor are owned by BMS;      WHEREAS,
Sanofi and BMS have developed certain know-how under the Development Agreement for the commercialization of the Products in certain territories, including Territory B and, as a result, each has an undivided one-half direct ownership interest in the
Developed Know-How (as such term is defined herein);   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

WHEREAS, Sanofi, BMS and the Partnership have entered into a Product Know-How License
Agreement dated as of January 1, 1997 (the   Original License  ), pursuant to which Sanofi and BMS have granted to the Partnership a license under the Developed Know-How for the commercialization of the Products in certain
territories, including Territory B;      WHEREAS, the Partnership has been commercializing Products in Territory B since that
date;      WHEREAS, pursuant to the Master Restructuring Agreement (the   Definitive Agreement  ), dated as of
September 27, 2012, by and between Sanofi and BMS, Sanofi and BMS have agreed to simplify the overall governance, operating and financial principles of their alliance with respect to the Products, other than Clopidogrel in the United States
(including Puerto Rico); and      WHEREAS, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Definitive Agreement, Sanofi
and BMS have agreed to, among other things, amend and restate the Original License on the terms set forth herein.      NOW,
THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Parties hereby agree as follows:       ARTICLE 1        DEFINITIONS    
  1.1  Defined Terms . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:   
    Affiliate  , when used with reference to any Person, means any other Person controlling, controlled by, or under common
control with, such Person;  provided, however,  that, with respect to Sanofi, the definition of Affiliate shall exclude L Or al, a  soci t  anonyme  organized and existing under the laws of the French Republic.
For the purposes of this definition,   control   shall refer to (a) the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct the management or policies of a Person or to veto any material decision relating to the management
or policies of a Person, in each case whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, (b) the beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, of securities (excluding general partnership interests) representing at
least 50% of the voting power of all outstanding voting securities of a Person or (c) the beneficial ownership of at least 50% of the partnership interests of a general partnership. The Parties confirm that each Co-Promotion Entity (as defined
in the Alliance Support Agreement) in Territory B shall be considered to be an Affiliate of BMS.        Alliance
Agreements   has the meaning set forth in the Alliance Support Agreement.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      -2-

Alliance Strategic Committee   has the meaning set forth in the Alliance
Support Agreement.        Clopidogrel Bulk   means the active substance chemical bulk containing Clopidogrel.
       Clopidogrel Product   means the product or products having as an active ingredient Clopidogrel or any salt,
ester, metabolite or pro-drug thereof.        Developed Know-How   means any and all technical data, information,
material and other know-how that relate to the formulation of the Products, including, without limitation, any analytical methodology, chemical, toxicological, pharmacological and clinical data, formulae, procedures, protocols, techniques and
results of experimentation and testing, developed by Sanofi and BMS under the Development Agreement.        Finance
Committee   has the meaning set forth in the Alliance Support Agreement.        fixed dose combination  
means a pharmaceutical dosage form containing fixed doses of more than one active ingredient in which all active ingredients are present in a single tablet, capsule or other form and shall expressly exclude so-called  co-packaging  in
which separate drugs in separate dosage forms are sold in a single unit or bundle.        Fixed Dose Combination
Product   means a fixed dose combination containing Clopidogrel.        Functional Committee   means any
Alliance Functional Committee (as such term is defined in the Alliance Support Agreement) or any License Functional Committee.   
    Governmental Authority   means any federal, state or local or any foreign or supranational government, governmental,
regulatory or administrative authority, agency or commission or any court, tribunal or judicial or arbitral body.   
    Lead   means the right to initiate proposals and implement, or cause the implementation of, recommendations and
decisions.        Line Extension   means, with respect to development conducted on or after the date hereof, any
new dosage or new form of administration of any Product.        Marketing Entity   has the meaning set forth in the
Partnership Agreement.        Net Sales   means for any given period and with respect to any Product, the gross
amount invoiced in respect thereof by the Marketing Entities to any Person (excluding any transfers between any Party and its Affiliates solely for purposes of resale, promotional use or clinical trials),  less  (i) quantity and/or cash
discounts, allowances and/or rebates actually allowed or given, (ii) freight, postage and shipping insurance expenses (if separately identified in such   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      -3-

invoice), (iii) sales taxes directly related to the sale to the extent included in the gross invoice price (but not including taxes assessed against the income derived from such sale) and
(iv) amounts repaid or credited on account of rejections, outdating or the return of such Product.        New
Indication   means, with respect to development conducted on or after the date hereof, any new therapeutic use or application of any Product.        New IP Agreement   means the FDC Intellectual Property License Agreement between Sanofi and BMS, dated as of the date hereof.   
    Person   means any individual, partnership, firm, corporation,  soci t  anonyme, soci t 
en nom collectif, soci t  en participation, soci t  par actions simplifi e,  limited liability company, joint venture, association, trust or other entity or any government or any agency or political subdivision
thereof, as well as any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a person under Section 13(d)(3) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.        Product   means a Clopidogrel Product.        Safety
Problem   has the meaning set forth in the Alliance Support Agreement.        Territory B   or the
  United States   means any State or Commonwealth of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa and any other territory, possession or military base of the United
States of America.        Third Party   means a Person who or which is neither a Party nor an Affiliate of a Party.
     1.2  Additional Defined Terms . The following additional defined terms shall have the meanings set forth in the sections
of this Agreement listed below:       

Defined Term     
      
    Section Where Defined     

Agreement  
      
  Preamble   
 
  Alliance Support Agreement  
      
  Recitals   
 
  BMS  
      
  Preamble   
 
  Clopidogrel  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Definitive Agreement  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Development Agreement  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Development Committee  
      
  5.2   
 
  Development Royalty  
      
  4.1   
 
  Dispute  
      
  9.3(a)   
 
  Dispute Resolution Notice  
      
  9.3(a)   
 
  ICC  
      
  9.3(b)   
 
  License Functional Committees  
      
  5.2   
 
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      -4-

Defined Term     
      
    Section Where Defined     

License Steering Committee  
      
  5.1   
 
  License Strategic Decisions  
      
  5.1   
 
  License Termination Date  
      
  7.2   
 
  Notices  
      
  9.1   
 
  Original License  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Other Party  
      
  6.1   
 
  Partnership Agreement  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Partnership  
      
  Preamble   
 
  Party  
      
  Preamble   
 
  Payment Report  
      
  4.2   
 
  Proposing Party  
      
  6.1   
 
  Sanofi  
      
  Preamble   
 
  Sterling  
      
  Recitals   
     ARTICLE 2        GRANT OF LICENSE       2.1  License Grant . Subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, Sanofi and BMS each separately grant to the Partnership an exclusive license for the term hereof in their respective undivided one-half direct ownership interest in the Developed Know-How, and the Partnership hereby
accepts, an exclusive license for the term hereof under the Developed Know-How (i) to sell, offer for sale and import, and, with respect to BMS as licensor only, to make and have made, the Products in Territory B, and (ii) subject to
Article 6 hereof, to develop Products for Territory B, including, without limitation, New Indications and Line Extensions thereof;  provided, however,  that the foregoing exclusivity shall not apply to Sanofi and BMS to the extent of their
respective rights (both granted and retained) under the New IP Agreement with respect to Fixed Dose Combination Products.   
  Subject to the occurrence of a change in exclusivity of supply under Section 4.3 of the Plavix Finished Product Supply Agreement
between sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC, as supplier, and the Partnership, as purchaser, dated as of the date hereof, Sanofi hereby grants to the Partnership, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, an exclusive license under its undivided
one-half direct ownership interest in the Developed Know-How to manufacture and package, or have manufactured and packaged, the Products for sale in Territory B, for the term and to the extent needed to cover the period of exclusivity change.
     2.2  No Transfer . The Partnership hereby acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement does not, and shall not be deemed
to, transfer any proprietary ownership interest whatsoever to the Partnership in or to the Developed Know-How. Nothing herein shall give the Partnership any right, title or interest in or to any of the Developed Know-How, except the rights granted
pursuant to this Agreement.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      -5-

2.3  No Implicit Rights . All of the rights granted hereunder are explicitly stated
herein and nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to grant any implied rights whatsoever to the Partnership in or to the Developed Know-How.      2.4  Corporate Name Authorization . The Partnership shall be permitted to use both the Sanofi and BMS corporate names, on a [*] basis for the term hereof, solely (i) as part of its corporate
name and (ii) in connection with any promotional, advertising or marketing necessary or desirable for the commercialization of the Products in Territory B in accordance with this Agreement and the Alliance Support Agreement. The grant of rights
pursuant to this Section 2.4 shall terminate upon the earlier of (i) the expiration or early termination of this Agreement and (ii) the expiration or early termination of the Alliance Support Agreement,  provided that  such
termination shall not affect any continuing rights to BMS s corporate name(s) that Sanofi and its Affiliates may have pursuant to Section 7.1 of the Definitive Agreement.   
  2.5  Goodwill . The Partnership hereby acknowledges that all goodwill connected with the Sanofi and BMS corporate names shall inure
to the benefit of Sanofi and BMS, as the case may be, and the Partnership shall not take any action that may be detrimental to such goodwill.      2.6  Improvements . Any new or useful invention, process or improvement, patentable or unpatentable, relating to the formulation of any Product under the Developed Know-How developed or acquired by
the Partnership during the term hereof, shall be the property of the Partnership which shall have all ownership rights thereto, subject to Article 6 hereof.      2.7  Original License . The Parties hereby agree that all acts, omissions and occurrences prior to the date hereof, and all rights and obligations of the Parties with respect thereto, shall be
governed by the terms of the Original License prior to its amendment and restatement in accordance with the terms hereof.   
   ARTICLE 3    
   SUB-LICENSE       3.1  General Sub-License . Except as permitted under Section 3.2 hereof, the Partnership shall not, without the prior written consent of both Sanofi and BMS, sub-license any of its rights and
obligations under this Agreement;  provided, however,  that if the representatives of Sanofi and BMS on any Functional Committee, the Alliance Strategic Committee or the License Steering Committee, consensually agree to sub-license any of the
Partnership s rights or obligations hereunder, such agreement shall be deemed to be the consent of Sanofi and BMS for the purposes of this Section 3.1. No such sub-license shall relieve the Partnership of its obligations hereunder.
     3.2  Sub-License for Alliance Agreements . The Partnership shall sub-license those of its rights and obligations under
this Agreement, to any Affiliate of Sanofi or BMS that is a party to any Alliance Agreement, solely for the purposes of permitting such Affiliate to perform its obligations under such Alliance Agreement.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      -6-

3.3  Termination of Sub-License . Sanofi and BMS each shall have the right to require
the Partnership to terminate any sub-license of rights hereunder in the event that the sub-licensee fails to comply in any material respect with, or takes any action contrary to, the terms of such sub-license or any decision made by any Functional
Committee, the Alliance Strategic Committee or the License Steering Committee, and such sub-licensee has failed to remedy such non-compliance within thirty (30) days from its receipt of written notice thereof from Sanofi, BMS or the
Partnership.       ARTICLE 4        CONSIDERATION       4.1  Development Royalty . In consideration of the
rights and licenses granted hereunder, the Partnership shall pay, or shall cause to be paid, for the term of this Agreement, as a development royalty (the   Development Royalty  ) to [*], an amount equal to [*] of Net Sales of
Clopidogrel Products in Territory B.      4.2  Payment . For the term of this Agreement, the Partnership shall pay or cause
to be paid to each of Sanofi and BMS all amounts due hereunder on a quarterly basis within sixty (60) days of the end of each calendar quarter. Each such payment shall be accompanied by an accurate statement of the amount of Net Sales of the
Products in Territory B during such calendar quarter and the calculation of all payments to be made to each of Sanofi and BMS for such calendar quarter (each a   Payment Report  ).   
  4.3  Method of Payment . (a) All payments to be made hereunder shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds,
and shall be made in US dollars to the respective bank accounts of Sanofi and BMS as notified to the Partnership by the relevant Party, unless the Parties agree to settle such payments through other means.   
  4.4  Records . The Partnership shall maintain (i) books, records and accounts which accurately and fairly reflect, in
reasonable detail, the Net Sales of the Products in Territory B and (ii) an adequate system of internal accounting controls. All books, records and accounts referred to in clause (i) above shall be maintained for not less than [*], or for
such longer period if and as required by applicable law, following the date of the sales constituting the Net Sales and shall be made available for reasonable review upon request by Sanofi and/or BMS.   
  4.5  Payment Reports . (a) At the request of Sanofi, the Partnership shall, and shall if applicable cause its sub-licensees to,
permit Sanofi or an independent, certified public accountant not having any significant relation to either BMS or Sanofi, as appointed by Sanofi, at reasonable times and upon reasonable notice, to examine the books and records of the Partnership as
may be necessary to (i) determine, with respect to any calendar quarter ending not more than [*] prior to the related request, the correctness of any Payment Report or payment made under this Agreement or any Alliance Agreement or
(ii) obtain information as to the   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      -7-

amount payable for any such calendar quarter in the case of failure on the part of the Partnership to report or pay pursuant to this Agreement or on the part of any party to any Alliance
Agreement;  provided, however,  that Sanofi shall not have the right to make such audit request more than once every [*]. The results of any such audit shall be promptly made available to BMS, Sanofi and the Partnership.   
  (b) Sanofi shall bear the full cost and expense of any such audit, unless such audit discloses that the amount due to Sanofi is more than
the amount paid by [*] of the amount due, in which case BMS shall bear the full cost and expense of such audit.      (c) The
determination by an independent, certified public accountant pursuant to this Section 4.5 as to the amount due and payable by the Partnership shall be conclusive and binding on the Parties hereto.   
  4.6  Taxes . All payments due under this Agreement shall be paid in full without deduction, except for taxes (if any) required to be
withheld by applicable law in Territory B with respect to such payments. In the event the Partnership is required under applicable law to withhold any tax to the revenue authorities in any country in Territory B regarding any payment to Sanofi
and/or BMS, the amount of such tax shall be deducted by the Partnership and paid to the relevant revenue authority, and the Partnership shall notify the relevant Party thereof and shall promptly furnish to such Party all copies of any tax
certificate or other documentation evidencing such withholding. In the event that any such tax shall subsequently be found to be due, payment of such tax shall be the responsibility of Sanofi or BMS, as the case may be.   
   ARTICLE 5    
   LICENSE STEERING COMMITTEE       5.1  License Steering Committee . In order to ensure the proper use of the Developed Know-How by the Partnership for the commercialization and further development of the Products, Sanofi and BMS
shall be represented by a License Steering Committee (the   License Steering Committee  ), which shall be responsible for the following (collectively, the   License Strategic Decisions  ):   
  (i) overseeing the commercialization of the Products in Territory B and taking decisions on any operational
disagreements;      (ii) approving the annual operating budget for Territory B and any requests for New Indications
and Line Extensions; and      (iii) overall pricing guidelines and any exceptions to the same.   
  5.2  License Functional Committees . The License Steering Committee may establish, at its discretion, functional committees (the
  License Functional Committees  ) as needed to manage the conduct of the ongoing business in Territory B and exchange of necessary information between BMS and Sanofi, including a development committee (  Development
Committee  ).   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      -8-

5.3  Committee Composition and Decision Making . The License Steering Committee shall
at all times consist of six (6) representatives, three (3) of whom shall represent Sanofi and three (3) of whom shall represent BMS. The representatives of Sanofi shall be the persons serving from time to time as the (i) VP
  General Therapeutics   North America, (ii) Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   North America, and (iii) Vice President, Alliance Management, Sanofi. The representatives of BMS shall be the persons serving from to
time as the (i) Senior Vice President   CV/Met, (ii) Vice President   U.S. Finance, and (iii) Head of Global Alliances. If any such position has been modified or eliminated, the Party so affected shall appoint an individual
whose position is substantially similar to the position so modified or eliminated. The License Steering Committee shall have the sole power, by a consensus of the representatives of Sanofi and BMS, to make any and all License Strategic Decisions and
to resolve any deadlock or conflict arising among or within the License Functional Committees that has not been resolved pursuant to the Alliance Support Agreement.      5.4  Committee Dispute Resolution . All disputes arising within the License Steering Committee shall be resolved pursuant to Section 3.06 of the Alliance Support Agreement;  provided, however,
 that if agreement cannot be reached with respect to the [*] for any fiscal year pursuant to Section 3.06 of the Alliance Support Agreement, the [*] for the previous fiscal year shall carry over to the next fiscal year, until the [*] for the
next fiscal year shall have been approved.      5.5  Delegation . The License Steering Committee may, by a consensus of the
representatives of Sanofi and BMS thereon, expressly and by written resolution establish any other functional committee and delegate its powers to such newly established functional committee and/or to any then existing License Functional Committee
on such terms as it deems appropriate.       ARTICLE 6    
   NEW INDICATION OR LINE EXTENSION        SOLE RISK SCENARIO       6.1  Sole Development . If either Sanofi or BMS
wishes to pursue the development of any New Indication or Line Extension, such Party (the   Proposing Party  ) shall propose such development to the other Party (the   Other Party  ) in the context of the Development
Committee. If the Other Party decides not to pursue such development, as evidenced by its negative vote in the Development Committee with respect to such development and irrespective of whether such Party has the Lead for the Product with respect to
which such development is proposed, then the Development Committee shall submit such proposal to the License Steering Committee, which shall decide whether the Proposing Party may proceed alone with such development. If the License Steering
Committee agrees to permit such sole development, the Proposing Party shall be entitled to undertake such development at its sole cost and expense.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      -9-

6.2  Commercialization of Resulting Products . If the Proposing Party proceeds alone
with such development pursuant to Section 6.1 hereof, the Proposing Party and the Other Party shall, and shall cause their respective Affiliates to, grant the rights for the development of such New Indication or Line Extension, as the case may
be, to the Proposing Party (with the right to sub-license to its Affiliates with the consent of the Other Party (which such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld)) solely for the purposes of pursuing such development in accordance with the
terms of this Agreement. In the event the Proposing Party successfully develops such New Indication or Line Extension, the Proposing Party hereby acknowledges and agrees that (i) pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof, solely the Partnership shall
have the right to commercialize such New Indication or Line Extension in Territory B, subject to BMS and Sanofi s respective rights under the New IP Agreement with respect to Fixed Dose Combination Products and (ii) such commercialization
shall be fully subject to and performed in accordance with the decisions and recommendations of the Alliance Strategic Committee, the License Steering Committee and the Functional Committees in accordance with this Agreement and the Alliance Support
Agreement.      6.3  [*]  In the event of such sole development, the Proposing Party shall be entitled to receive an [*] for
such development equal to [*] which shall be [*] payable to such Party pursuant to Article 4 hereof. In the event that the Finance Committee cannot agree upon a method of [*], including the [*] payable under Section [*] hereof, the Proposing Party
and the Other Party shall [*]. The [*], and the fees and expenses of [*] shall be [*].      6.4  Election to Participate in
Development . The Other Party may reverse its election not to pursue such development, by Notice to the Proposing Party, at any time prior to the registration of such New Indication or Line Extension in the first country in Territory B in which
registration is made, subject to the reimbursement of [*] of all [*] incurred by the Proposing Party with respect to such New Indication or Line Extension as of the date on which such Notice is made. In the event of such reimbursement, the Proposing
Party and the Other Party shall thereafter share [*] incurred after the date on which such Notice is made with respect to such development, and [*] set forth in Section [*] hereof shall be [*] by [*], from [*] to [*] of Net Sales of the Product in
Territory B [*];  provided, however,  that only the Proposing Party shall be entitled to [*].      6.5  Period of
Exclusivity . If the development undertaken by the Proposing Party results in (i) an additional period of legal and  de facto  exclusivity for the Product as a whole or (ii) the issuance of a new patent for such New Indication or
Line Extension developed through such development resulting in legal and  de facto  exclusivity for such New Indication or Line Extension, then the Proposing Party also shall be entitled to a [*] for additional development determined by the
Finance Committee, which shall not be less than [*] nor more than [*] of Net Sales of the Product in Territory B attributable to the New Indication or Line Extension. [*] shall be payable in accordance with Article 4 hereof (x) after the date
legal or  de facto  exclusivity of such Product would otherwise have ended until the date on which the legal or  de facto  exclusivity obtained as a result of the sole development terminates (whichever terminates first), in the case
referred to in clause (i) above, and (y) during the life of the relevant patent, in the case referred to in clause (ii) above. This [*] shall not exceed [*] of Net Sales of the Product in Territory B, even if the conditions in both
clauses (i) and (ii) above are satisfied, and shall not be reduced even if the Other Party exercises its right under Section 6.4 hereof to reverse its election not to participate in such development.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      -10-

6.6  Safety and Other Problems . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Article 6 or in Section 7.05(b) of the Alliance Support Agreement, if either Sanofi or BMS determines that the development of a New Indication or Line Extension should be suspended for a safety reason that it believes in good faith justifies
such suspension, or reasonably believes that such development would have a material adverse effect on the overall development of Clopidogrel, or the overall commercial viability of the resulting Product(s), such Party shall have the unilateral right
to veto the development by the other Party of such New Indication or Line Extension.       ARTICLE 7    
   TERM; TERMINATION       7.1  Term; Termination . (a) The term of this Agreement shall commence on the date hereof and shall expire on December [*], 2019. Thereafter, the term of this Agreement may be renewed for
successive three-year terms by the mutual agreement of the Parties no later than 24 months prior to the expiration of the term then in effect.      (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement shall automatically expire upon the earlier of (i) the termination by both Parties of the commercialization of the Product in Territory B as the
result of a Safety Problem pursuant to Section 7.04(iii) of the Alliance Support Agreement and (ii) the exercise by BMS of the special put option pursuant to Section 7.08 of the Alliance Support Agreement.   
  (c) The Parties may cause the early termination of this Agreement by the mutual written consent of each of the Parties.   
  (d) Either Sanofi or BMS shall have the right to declare termination of this Agreement upon Notice to the other Parties, following the
first to occur of:      (i) such other Party shall have (A) voluntarily commenced any proceeding or filed any
petition seeking relief under Title 11 of the United States Code, Book VI of the French Commercial Code (legislative part as well as regulatory part) or any other bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law of the United States, any state thereof, the
French Republic or any other applicable jurisdiction, (B) applied for or consented to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conciliator, administrator or similar official for it or for all or substantially all of its
property, (C) filed an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against or in respect of it in any such proceeding, (D) made a general assignment for the benefit of creditors of all or substantially all of its assets,
(E) become unable generally, or admitted in writing its inability to, pay all or substantially all of its debts as they become due or (F) taken corporate action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing; or   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      -11-

(ii) an involuntary proceeding shall have been commenced or any involuntary
petition shall have been filed in a court of competent jurisdiction seeking (A) relief in respect of such other Party, or of its property, under Title 11 of the United States Code, Book VI of the French Commercial Code (legislative part as well
as regulatory part) or any other bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law of the United States, any state thereof, the French Republic or any other applicable jurisdiction, (B) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator,
conciliator, administrator or similar official for such other Party or for all or substantially all of its property or (C) the winding-up or liquidation of such other Party; and such proceeding or petition shall have continued undismissed for
sixty (60) days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall have continued unstayed and in effect for thirty (30) days.      7.2  Consequences of Termination . (a) Upon the expiration or early termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 7.1 hereof (the   License Termination Date  ):
     (i) the terms and conditions of Section 7.07 of the Alliance Support Agreement shall apply, except in the
event of early termination pursuant to Section 7.1(b) hereof;      (ii) the Partnership shall cease, and shall
cause each sub-licensee (if any) to cease, all activities related to the Developed Know-How; and      (iii) the
Partnership shall pay in full all amounts due to Sanofi and/or BMS hereunder within ten (10) days after the final determination of Net Sales for such period, including the License Termination Date, pursuant to Sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.5 hereof
which shall survive until the full payment of all amounts under this clause (iii).      (b) In the event of the termination of the
commercialization of the Products throughout Territory B pursuant to Section 7.04 of the Alliance Support Agreement (other than a bilateral termination of such Product as the result of a Safety Problem), the provisions of
Section 7.2(a)(ii)-(iii) hereof shall apply,  mutatis mutandis,  with respect to such Product.      (c) In the
event of the termination of the commercialization of the Products in any country of Territory B pursuant to Section 7.02 of the Alliance Support Agreement:      (i) the terms and conditions of Section 7.2(a)(ii)-(iii) hereof shall apply,  mutatis mutandis,  with respect to such country; and   
  (ii) all rights and licenses granted by Sanofi and BMS hereunder with respect to such country shall revert to Sanofi and
BMS, respectively, subject to Section 7.03 of the Alliance Support Agreement.      (d) Expiration or early termination of
this Agreement pursuant to this Article 7 shall be without prejudice to any rights which shall have accrued to the benefit of any Party prior to such expiration or termination. Such expiration or termination shall not relieve any
  
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      -12-

Party from its obligations which are expressly indicated to survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement. All of the Parties  rights and obligations under this subclause
(d) and under Sections 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 7.2 and 9.2 through 9.4 and Article 8 hereof shall survive such expiration or termination for the applicable period.       ARTICLE 8        CONFIDENTIALITY    
  All of the data, material and information exchanged by the Parties hereunder or related hereto (including, without limitation, the
Developed Know-How) shall be subject to the confidentiality provisions of the Alliance Support Agreement as set forth in Section 5.03 thereof.       ARTICLE 9        MISCELLANEOUS    
  9.1  Notices . All notices, requests or other communications hereunder (collectively,   Notices  ) shall be in
writing, shall be in the English language, and shall be given or made by delivery in person, by courier service, by facsimile (with receipt confirmed) or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested, with postage prepaid) to the
respective Parties at the following addresses:      If to Sanofi, to:   
  Sanofi      54 rue
la Bo tie      75008 Paris, France      Attention: Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel      Facsimile:
(33.1) 53.77.43.03      Attention: Vice President, Alliances   Partnerships   
  Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.40.99      with a copy to:      Weil Gotshal   Manges   
  767 Fifth Avenue      New York NY 10153      Attention: [omitted]   
  Facsimile: 212 310 8007      If to BMS, to:      Bristol-Myers Squibb Company   
  P.O. Box 4000   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      -13-

Route 206   Province Line Road      Princeton, NJ 08543-4000 USA
     Attention: Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Transactional Practice Group   
  Facsimile: (1-609) 252-7680      with a copy to:      Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP   
  7 World Trade Center      250 Greenwich Street      New York, NY 10007 USA   
  Attention: [omitted]      Facsimile: (1-212) 230-8888      If to the Partnership, to:   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership      P.O. Box 4000      Route 206   Province Line Road   
  Princeton, NJ 08543-4000, USA      Attention: Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Transactional Practice Group      Facsimile: (1-609) 252-7680      with a copy to each of:   
  sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC      55 Corporate Drive      Bridgewater, NJ 08807 USA   
  Attention: [omitted]      Facsimile: (908) 981-5705      [omitted]   
  General Counsel, North America      sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC      55 Corporate Drive   
  Bridgewater, NJ 08807      Fax: (908) 981-7833   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      -14-

and:      Sanofi      54 rue la Bo tie   
  75008 Paris, France      Attention: Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel      Facsimile:
(33.1) 53.77.43.03      Attention: Vice President, Alliances   Partnerships   
  Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.40.99   
  or to such other address or facsimile number as hereafter shall be furnished as provided in this Section 9.1 by any Party hereto to the other
Parties hereto. All Notices given to any Party in accordance with this Section 9.1 shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt if delivered by hand or overnight courier service or sent by facsimile, or on the date ten
(10) business days after dispatch by certified or registered mail (postage prepaid) if mailed.      9.2  Governing Law .
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, United States of America, without regard to the choice of law principles that might otherwise be applied in such jurisdiction.   
  9.3  Dispute Resolution .      (a)  Negotiation and Notice . In the event of any dispute, claim, controversy or disagreement (each, a   Dispute  ) arising out of, in connection with or relating to this Agreement
including any question regarding this Agreement s existence, validity or termination, the Parties shall first seek resolution of such Dispute by negotiation between their respective senior management. Such negotiation shall be deemed to
commence upon the service by either Sanofi or BMS upon the other of a written notice (a   Dispute Resolution Notice  ) under this  Section 9.3(a) .      (b) If a Dispute subject to negotiation under  Section 9.3(a)  is not finally resolved within thirty (30) days following receipt by either Sanofi or BMS of a Dispute Resolution Notice, the
Dispute shall be finally resolved by arbitration under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce (the   ICC  ). The arbitral tribunal shall be composed of three (3) arbitrators. Each of Sanofi and BMS
shall nominate one (1) arbitrator. The two (2) arbitrators so nominated shall nominate the presiding arbitrator. If either Sanofi or BMS fails to nominate an arbitrator in its Request for Arbitration or within thirty (30) days of
receiving written notice of the nomination of an arbitrator by the other Party, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the ICC Court. If the two (2) arbitrators to be nominated by Sanofi and BMS fail to agree upon a third arbitrator within
thirty (30) days of the nomination of the second arbitrator, the third arbitrator shall be appointed by the ICC Court. The place of arbitration shall   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      -15-

be Paris, France and the language of the arbitration shall be English. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in the ICC Rules of Arbitration, each Party shall bear its own costs and
expenses relating to such arbitration and all related proceedings, including fees for legal representation. Each Party shall continue to perform its respective obligations under this Agreement and this Agreement shall remain in effect while the
Dispute is being resolved. The Parties agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the Definitive Agreement, or the Settlement Agreement (including the China Opt-Out Letter) or any Alliance Agreement (as such terms are
defined in the Definitive Agreement) shall be resolved in a single arbitration before the ICC, regardless of how many parties or agreements are implicated, and specifically waive any argument that a dispute arising out of or relating to this
Agreement shall be resolved in multiple arbitrations before the ICC.      9.4  Specific Performance .   
  (a) Each Party agrees that the Developed Know-How is unique, and each Party hereby acknowledges and agrees that it and the other Party
would be damaged irreparably if any of the provisions of this Agreement are not performed in accordance with their specific terms or otherwise are breached. Accordingly, each Party shall be entitled to seek specific performance and/or interim
relief, and agrees that the arbitral tribunal constituted under Section 9.3(b) shall have the power to order specific performance or grant provisional, interim, or conservatory measures, including but not limited to provisional injunctive
relief. The Parties undertake to comply forthwith with any such provisional, interim, or conservatory measures ordered by the arbitral tribunal and agree that such measures may, to the extent not precluded by applicable law, be enforceable as a
final award in any court of competent jurisdiction. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this provision shall prevent any Party from seeking conservatory or interim measures, including, but not limited to, temporary restraining orders or
preliminary injunctions or their equivalent, from any court of competent jurisdiction before the arbitral tribunal is constituted under Section 9.3(b) or, thereafter, upon the order of the arbitral tribunal.   
  9.5  No Third Party Beneficiaries . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the Parties (including
the partners of the Partnership, each in its capacity as partner thereof) and permitted sub-licensees and assigns, and nothing herein, express or implied, is intended to, or shall confer upon, any other Person any legal or equitable right, benefit
or remedy of any nature whatsoever.      9.6  Assignment .   
  (a) This Agreement may be assigned by a Party only to an Affiliate of Sanofi or BMS in the event of a corporate reorganization (including
an entity that becomes an Affiliate in connection with such reorganization) involving the assumption of all or substantially all of such Party s marketing functions in Territory B by such Affiliate, in which event the rights may be assigned and
the obligations may be delegated to such Affiliate.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      -16-

(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in subclause (a) above, this
Agreement may be assigned, in whole or in part, by, or on behalf of, the Partnership as a result of a termination event under either Section 7.04 or Section 7.06 of the Alliance Support Agreement or as a result of the dissolution of the
Partnership (other than for a Safety Problem) and in any such event shall be deemed to be amended and restated (i) to delete Sections 2.4, 2.5, 3.2 and 5.1-5.5 and Articles 6 and 8 hereof, as well as any reference to the Alliance Support
Agreement and (ii) to insert those terms and conditions that are then customary in the pharmaceutical industry for an intellectual property license agreement, including, without limitation, provisions for confidentiality, indemnification and
termination for material breach, as well as a diligence requirement that the assignee shall use reasonable commercial efforts to actively promote the Product(s) assigned (and the remedy for breach of such diligence requirement shall be termination
of such amended and restated agreement).      9.7  Severability . If any term or other provision hereof is held to be
invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by applicable law or public policy, all other terms and provisions hereof shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic effect or legal substance of the transactions
contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any Party. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to modify this
Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the Parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.   
  9.8  Waivers and Amendments . No modification of or amendment to this Agreement shall be valid unless in a writing signed by the
Parties referring specifically to this Agreement and stating the Parties  intention to modify or amend the same. Any waiver of any term or condition of this Agreement shall be in a writing signed by the Party sought to be charged with such
waiver referring specifically to the term or condition to be waived, and no such waiver shall be deemed to constitute the waiver of any other breach of the same or of any other provision hereof.   
  9.9  Headings . All titles and captions contained in this Agreement are for the convenience of reference only and shall not affect
in any way the meaning or interpretation hereof.      9.10  Entire Agreement . This Agreement and the Alliance Support
Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to the subject matter contained herein and all prior agreements relative thereto which are not contained herein are hereby terminated.   
  9.11  No Partnership or Joint Venture . This Agreement is not intended to create, and nothing contained herein shall be construed to
create an association, joint venture, trust or partnership, or to impose a trust or partnership covenant, obligation or liability on or with regard to the other Party. Each Party shall be severally responsible for its own covenants, obligations and
liabilities as herein provided. Other than the Partnership: (i) no Party shall be under the control of, or shall be deemed to control any other Party; (ii) no Party is the legal representative, agent, joint venturer or employee of the
other Party with respect to this Agreement for any purpose whatsoever, and no Party shall have the right or power to bind the   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      -17-

other Party; and (iii) no Party has the right or authority to assume or create any obligations of any kind or to make any representation or warranty on behalf of any other Party, whether
express or implied, or to bind any other Party in any respect whatsoever. The provisions of this Agreement are intended only for the regulation of relations between the Parties. This Agreement is not intended for the benefit of non-Party creditors,
and no rights are granted to non-Party creditors under this Agreement.      9.12  Governing Language . The Parties
acknowledge that this Agreement may be translated into the French language. The Parties agree that this English language version shall in all respects be the controlling version of this Agreement.   
  9.13  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be
an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.      [ Remainder of Page
Intentionally Left Blank ]   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      -18-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year
first written above.       

SANOFI  

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB SANOFI PHARMACEUTICALS HOLDING     PARTNERSHIP    

By:  
     
    /s/ T. Saugier   

Name: T. Saugier     Title:
Authorized representative   

Represented by:   

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY  

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB INVESTCO, L.L.C.   

By:  
     
    /s/ Katherine Kelly   

By:  
     
    /s/ Katherine Kelly    

Name: Katherine Kelly     Title:
Assistant Secretary   

Name: Katherine Kelly     Title:
Secretary    

Witnessed by:   

SANOFI-AVENTIS U.S. LLC   

By:  
     
    /s/ T. Saugier    

Name: T. Saugier     Title:
Authorized representative    
    [ Signature Page to Amended and Restated Territory B Know-How License ]   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

</EX-10.Y>

<EX-10.Z>
 12
 d450621dex10z.htm
 EX-10.Z

EX-10.z 

Exhibit 10z         *Confidential Treatment Requested         
      AMENDED AND RESTATED   
  TERRITORY B1 PRODUCT KNOW-HOW LICENSE AGREEMENT      among      SANOFI   
  BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY      and      SANOFI-AVENTIS U.S. LLC   
  dated as of January 1, 2013       
      *CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED.
CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

TABLE OF CONTENTS    

*CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      i   

SCHEDULE 1A TERRITORY B1   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      ii   

This AMENDED AND RESTATED TERRITORY B1 PRODUCT KNOW-HOW LICENSE AGREEMENT (this
  Agreement  ) dated as of January 1, 2013 is hereby made by and among:      Sanofi, a
 soci t  anonyme  organized and existing under the laws of the French Republic (  Sanofi     
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, United States of America
(  BMS   and      sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the   Licensee  
and, together with Sanofi and BMS, the   Parties   and, individually, each a   Party  ).        W
I T N E S S E T H :       WHEREAS, Sanofi previously discovered and patented two new chemical entities, one known as SR
47436 with the international non-proprietary name Irbesartan (  Irbesartan  ) and one known as SR 25990C with the international non-proprietary name Clopidogrel Hydrogenosulphate (  Clopidogrel     
  WHEREAS, Sanofi, BMS and Sterling Winthrop Inc., a Delaware corporation (  Sterling  ) entered into a Development
Agreement dated July 29, 1993 (the   Development Agreement  ) for, among other things, the development of Irbesartan and Clopidogrel;      WHEREAS, pursuant to an Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of September 30, 1994 among Eastman Kodak Company, Sanofi and Sterling, Sanofi acquired certain assets, and assumed
certain obligations, of the ethical pharmaceutical business of Sterling, including the rights and obligations of Sterling under the Development Agreement;      WHEREAS, Sanofi and BMS have formed through their indirect wholly owned subsidiaries Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership, a Delaware partnership (the
  Partnership  ) for, among other things, the commercialization of the Products in certain territories, including Territory B1 (as such terms are defined herein);   
  WHEREAS, Sanofi and the Partnership have entered into an Irbesartan Intellectual Property License Agreement and a Clopidogrel
Intellectual Property License and Supply Agreement, each dated as of January 1, 1997 and amended as of the date hereof (the   Territory B License Agreements  ), pursuant to which Sanofi granted to the Partnership a license to use
certain patents, trademarks and know-how for the commercialization of the Products in certain territories, including Territory B1, that neither were developed with nor are owned by BMS;   
  WHEREAS, Sanofi and BMS have developed certain know-how under the Development Agreement for the commercialization of the Products and, as
a result, each has an undivided one-half direct ownership interest in the Developed Know-How (as such term is defined herein);   
  *CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

WHEREAS, Sanofi, BMS and the Partnership have entered into a Product Know-How License
Agreement dated as of January 1, 1997 (the   Original License  ), pursuant to which Sanofi and BMS granted to the Partnership a license under the Developed Know-How for the commercialization of the Products in certain
territories, including Territory B1;      WHEREAS, pursuant to the Master Restructuring Agreement (the   Definitive
Agreement  ), dated as of September 27, 2012, by and between Sanofi and BMS, Sanofi and BMS have agreed to simplify the overall governance, operating and financial principles of their alliance with respect to the Products, other than
Clopidogrel in the United States; and      WHEREAS, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Definitive Agreement,
Sanofi and BMS have agreed to, among other things, (i) assign the Territory B License Agreements from the Partnership to the Licensee, solely with respect to Territory B1, (ii) assign the Original License from the Partnership to the
Licensee, solely with respect to Territory B1, (iii) amend and restate such assigned Territory B License Agreements and (iv) amend and restate such assigned Original License on the terms and conditions set forth herein.   
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Parties hereby agree as
follows:       ARTICLE 1        DEFINITIONS       1.1  Defined Terms . As used in this Agreement, the
following terms shall have the following meanings:        Affiliate  , when used with reference to any Person, means
any other Person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, such Person;  provided, however,  that, with respect to Sanofi, the definition of Affiliate shall exclude L Or al, a  societe anonyme  organized and
existing under the laws of the French Republic. For the purposes of this definition,   control   shall refer to (a) the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct the management or policies of a Person or to veto
any material decision relating to the management or policies of a Person, in each case whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, (b) the beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, of securities (excluding
general partnership interests) representing at least 50% of the voting power of all outstanding voting securities of a Person or (c) the beneficial ownership of at least 50% of the partnership interests of a general partnership.   
    Clopidogrel Product   means (i) a product with the sole active ingredient Clopidogrel, in
finished form, marketed under the trademarks Plavix      and
Iscover      or any trademark that is confusingly similar to or that is a replacement for any such trademark, and
(ii) a product (an   Identified Clopi FDC  ) which contains as the only active ingredients the combination of Clopidogrel with acetylsalicylic acid, in finished form, marketed under the trademarks DuoPlavin     , DuoCover      and CoPlavix      or any
trademark that is confusingly similar to or that is a replacement for any such trademark. For the avoidance of doubt, Clopidogrel Products shall exclude any Fixed Dose Combination Products.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      2   

Designated Exchange Rate   means the exchange rate applicable for each
calendar month based on the prior month s daily average EUR/USD rate set by the European Central Bank each day.   
    Developed Know-How   means any and all technical data, information, material and other know-how that relate to the
formulation of the Products, including, without limitation, any analytical methodology, chemical, toxicological, pharmacological and clinical data, formulae, procedures, protocols, techniques and results of experimentation and testing, developed by
Sanofi and BMS under the Development Agreement.        fixed dose combination   means a pharmaceutical dosage form
containing fixed doses of more than one active ingredient in which all active ingredients are present in a single tablet, capsule or other form and shall expressly exclude so-called  co-packaging  in which separate drugs in separate dosage
forms are sold in a single unit or bundle.        Fixed Dose Combination Product   means a fixed dose combination
containing Clopidogrel or Irbesartan (other than the Identified Clopi FDCs and the Identified Irbe FDCs).   
    Governmental Authority   means any federal, state or local or any foreign or supranational government, governmental,
regulatory or administrative authority, agency or commission or any court, tribunal or judicial or arbitral body.   
    Identified Clopi FDC   has the meaning set forth in the definition of Clopidogrel Product.   
    Identified Irbe FDC   has the meaning set forth in the definition of Irbesartan Product.   
    IFRS Net Sales   means, with respect to a Product, net sales of Sanofi (or its Affiliates or their respective licensees
or sublicensees) as audited and reported in Euros by Sanofi (or its Affiliates or licensees) in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (  IFRS  ), as IFRS may be modified from time to time. For the avoidance of
doubt: (a) IFRS Net Sales shall not include samples, compassionate use of the Products and the like;  provided  that revenue from Products sold to third parties for clinical trial purposes shall be included in IFRS Net Sales; and
(b) any Damages (as defined in the Definitive Agreement) paid by Sanofi pursuant to Article IX of the Definitive Agreement shall not be treated as a deduction for purposes of calculating IFRS Net Sales. In calculating IFRS Net Sales, the
Parties shall disregard any related Know-How, Discovery or other royalties paid to Sanofi after January 1, 2013 on Clopidogrel Products or Irbesartan Products.   
    Irbesartan Product   means: (a) a product with the sole active ingredient Irbesartan, in
finished form, marketed under the trademarks Aprovel     , Karvea      and Avapro      or any trademark
that is confusingly similar to or that is a replacement for any such trademark; and (b) a product (an   Identified Irbe FDC  ) which contains as the only active ingredients the combination of Irbesartan with Hydrochlorothiazide,
in finished form, marketed under the trademarks CoAprovel     , Avalide      and Karvezide      or any trademark that is confusingly similar to or that is a replacement for any such trademark. For the avoidance of doubt, Irbesartan Products shall exclude any
Fixed Dose Combination Products.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      3   

New IP Agreement   means the FDC Intellectual Property License Agreement
between Sanofi and BMS, dated as of the date hereof.        Person   means any individual, partnership, firm,
corporation,  soci t  anonyme, soci t  en nom collectif, soci t  en participation, soci t  par actions simplifi e,  limited liability company, joint venture, association, trust or
other entity or any government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, as well as any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a person under Section 13(d)(3) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   
    Product   means a Clopidogrel Product or an Irbesartan Product and   Products   means both a Clopidogrel
Product and an Irbesartan Product.        Territory B1   means the countries and geographic areas described and
listed in  Schedule 1A  attached hereto.        Third Party   means a Person who or which is neither a Party
nor an Affiliate of a Party.        United States   means any State or Commonwealth of the United States of
America, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa and any other territory, possession or military base of the United States of America.   
  1.2  Additional Defined Terms . The following additional defined terms shall have the meanings set forth in the sections of this
Agreement listed below:       

Defined Term   
      
  Section Where Defined   

Agreement   
      
  Preamble   
 
    BMS   
      
  Preamble   
 
    Clopidogrel   
      
  Recitals   
 
    Definitive Agreement   
      
  Recitals   
 
    Development Agreement   
      
  Recitals   
 
    Development Royalty   
      
  4.1   
 
    Dispute   
      
  7.3   
 
    Dispute Resolution Notice   
      
  7.3   
 
    Force Majeure   
      
  7.14   
 
    Irbesartan   
      
  Recitals   
 
    ICC   
      
  7.3   
 
    Licensee   
      
  Preamble   
 
    License Termination Date   
      
  5.2   
 
    Notices   
      
  7.1   
 
    Original License   
      
  Recitals   
 
    Partnership   
      
  Recitals   
 
    Party   
      
  Preamble   
 
    Sanofi   
      
  Preamble   
 
    Sterling   
      
  Recitals   
 
    Territory B License Agreements   
      
  Recitals   
 
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      4   

ARTICLE 2        GRANT OF LICENSE       2.1  License Grant . Subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, Sanofi and BMS each separately grant to the Licensee an exclusive license for the term hereof in their respective undivided one-half direct ownership interest in the Developed Know-How, and the Licensee hereby accepts,
an exclusive license for the term hereof under the Developed Know-How, to make, have made, sell, offer for sale and import the Products in Territory B1,  provided   that  the foregoing exclusivity shall not apply to Sanofi and BMS to the
extent of their respective rights under the New IP Agreement with respect to Fixed Dose Combination Products, and each of Sanofi and BMS retain all of their respective rights under the Developed Know-How with respect to Fixed Dose Combination
Products, subject to the licenses granted under the New IP Agreement.      2.2  No Transfer . The Licensee hereby
acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement does not, and shall not be deemed to, transfer any proprietary ownership interest whatsoever to the Licensee in or to the Developed Know-How. Nothing herein shall give the Licensee any right, title or
interest in or to any of the Developed Know-How, except the rights granted pursuant to this Agreement.      2.3  No Implicit
Rights . All of the rights granted hereunder are explicitly stated herein and nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to grant any implied rights whatsoever to the Licensee in or to the Developed Know-How.   
  2.4  Original License . The Parties hereby agree that all acts, omissions and occurrences prior to the date hereof, and all rights
and obligations of the Parties with respect thereto, shall be governed by the terms of the Original License prior to its amendment and restatement in accordance with the terms hereof.   
  2.5  Corporate Name Authorization . The Licensee, Sanofi and its Affiliates shall be permitted to use the BMS Brands (as defined in
the Definitive Agreement) pursuant to and in accordance with Section 7.1 of the Definitive Agreement.       ARTICLE 3
       SUB-LICENSE       3.1  General Sub-License . The Licensee shall have the right to sub-license any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement to any Person, including, without limitation, any Affiliate of
Sanofi,  provided that , each sub-licensee shall be subject to, and comply fully with, the applicable provisions of this Agreement including, without limitation, Article 6 hereof. No such sub-license shall relieve the Licensee of its
obligations hereunder.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      5   

3.2  Termination of Sub-License . Sanofi and BMS each shall have the right to require
the Licensee to terminate any sub-license of rights hereunder in the event that the sub-licensee fails to comply in any material respect with, or takes any action contrary to, the terms of such sub-license, and such sub-licensee has failed to remedy
such non-compliance within thirty (30) days from its receipt of written notice thereof from Sanofi, BMS or the Licensee.   
   ARTICLE 4    
   CONSIDERATION       4.1  Development Royalty . In consideration of the rights and licenses granted hereunder, the Licensee shall pay, or shall cause to be paid, for the term of this Agreement the following aggregate
amounts as a development royalty (each a   Development Royalty  ),  provided  that, with respect to BMS, such royalty payments shall cease as of December 31, 2018 and the licenses granted by BMS to the Licensee under this
Agreement shall become [*] and [*] as of such date:      (i) To [*], an amount equal to [*] of IFRS Net Sales of
Irbesartan Products in Territory B1; and      (ii) To [*], an amount equal to [*] of IFRS Net Sales of Clopidogrel
Products in Territory B1.      4.2  Payment . For the term of this Agreement, the Licensee shall pay or cause to be paid to
each of Sanofi and BMS all amounts due hereunder on a quarterly basis within sixty (60) days of the end of each calendar quarter. Each such payment shall be accompanied by an accurate statement of the amount of IFRS Net Sales of the Products in
Territory B1, broken down Product-by-Product, during such calendar quarter and the calculation of all payments to be made to each of Sanofi and BMS for such calendar quarter.      4.3  Method of Payment . (a) All payments to be made hereunder shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the respective bank accounts of Sanofi and BMS as notified to the
Licensee by the relevant Party, unless the Parties agree to settle such payments through other means.      (b) Payments to be made
to BMS hereunder shall be declared in Euros based on IFRS Net Sales and shall be paid to BMS in USD and converted from Euros to USD at the Designated Exchange Rate applicable for the month in which payment is made.   
  4.4  Records . The Licensee shall maintain (i) books, records and accounts which accurately and fairly reflect, in reasonable
detail, the IFRS Net Sales of the Products in Territory B1 and (ii) an adequate system of internal accounting controls. All books, records and accounts referred to in clause (i) above shall be maintained for not less than [*] or for such
longer period if and as required by applicable law, following the date of the sales constituting the IFRS Net Sales and shall be made available for reasonable review upon request by Sanofi and/or BMS.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      6   

4.5  Taxes . All payments due under this Agreement shall be paid in full without
deduction, except for taxes (if any) required to be withheld by applicable law in Territory B1 with respect to such payments. In the event the Licensee is required under applicable law to withhold any tax to the revenue authorities in any country in
Territory B1 regarding any payment to Sanofi and/or BMS, the amount of such tax shall be deducted by the Licensee and paid to the relevant revenue authority, and the Licensee shall notify the relevant Party thereof and shall promptly furnish to such
Party all copies of any tax certificate or other documentation evidencing such withholding. In the event that any such tax shall subsequently be found to be due, payment of such tax shall be the responsibility of Sanofi or BMS, as the case may be.
      ARTICLE 5        TERM; TERMINATION       5.1  Term; Termination . (a) The term of this
Agreement, with respect to each Product, shall commence on the date hereof and shall expire on December 31, 2018. Thereafter, the term of this Agreement shall be automatically renewed for successive three-year terms, respectively.   
  (b) The Parties may cause the early termination of this Agreement by the mutual written consent of each of the Parties.   
  (c) Either BMS or Sanofi shall have the right to declare termination of this Agreement upon Notice to the other Parties, following the
first to occur of:      (i) such other Party shall have (A) voluntarily commenced any proceeding or filed any
petition seeking relief under Title 11 of the United States Code, Book VI of the French Commercial Code (legislative part as well as regulatory part) or any other bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law of the United States, any state thereof, the
French Republic or any other applicable jurisdiction, (B) applied for or consented to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conciliator, administrator or similar official for it or for all or substantially all of its
property, (C) filed an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against or in respect of it in any such proceeding, (D) made a general assignment for the benefit of creditors of all or substantially all of its assets,
(E) become unable generally, or admitted in writing its inability to, pay all or substantially all of its debts as they become due or (F) taken corporate action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing; or   
  (ii) an involuntary proceeding shall have been commenced or any involuntary petition shall have been filed in a court of
competent jurisdiction seeking (A) relief in respect of such other Party, or of its property, under Title 11 of the United States Code, Book VI of the French Commercial Code (legislative part as well as regulatory part) or any other bankruptcy,
insolvency or similar law of the United States, any state thereof,   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      7   

the French Republic or any other applicable jurisdiction, (B) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conciliator, administrator or similar official for such other
Party or for all or substantially all of its property or (C) the winding-up or liquidation of such other Party; and such proceeding or petition shall have continued undismissed for sixty (60) days or an order or decree approving or
ordering any of the foregoing shall have continued unstayed and in effect for thirty (30) days.      5.2  Consequences of
Termination . (a) Upon the expiration or early termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 5.1 hereof (the   License Termination Date  ):   
  (i) the Licensee shall cease, and shall cause each sub-licensee (if any) to cease, all activities related to the Developed
Know-How; and      (ii) the Licensee shall pay in full all amounts due to Sanofi and/or BMS hereunder within ten
(10) days after the final determination of IFRS Net Sales for such period, including the License Termination Date, pursuant to Sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.5 hereof which shall survive until the full payment of all amounts under this clause (ii).
     (b) Expiration or early termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Article 5 shall be without prejudice to any rights
which shall have accrued to the benefit of any Party prior to such expiration or termination. Such expiration or termination shall not relieve any Party from its obligations which are expressly indicated to survive the expiration or termination of
this Agreement. All of the Parties  rights and obligations under this subclause (b) and under Sections 4.4, 4.5, 5.2 and 7.2 7.4 and Article 6 hereof shall survive such expiration or termination for the applicable period.   
   ARTICLE 6    
   CONFIDENTIALITY       All of the data, material and information exchanged by the Parties hereunder or related hereto (including, without limitation, the Developed Know-How) shall be subject to the confidentiality provisions of
the Definitive Agreement as set forth in Section 8.8 thereof.       ARTICLE 7    
   MISCELLANEOUS       7.1  Notices . All notices, requests or other communications hereunder (collectively,   Notices  ) shall be in writing, shall be in the English language, and shall be given or made by
delivery in person, by courier service, by facsimile (with receipt confirmed) or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested, with postage prepaid) to the respective Parties at the following addresses:   
  If to Sanofi, to:      Sanofi      54, rue la Bo tie   
  75008 Paris, France   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      8   

Attention: Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel
     Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.43.03   
  Attention: Vice President, Alliances   Partnerships   
  Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.40.99      with a copy to:      Weil Gotshal   Manges   
  767 Fifth Avenue      New York NY 10153      Attention: [omitted]   
  Facsimile: 212 310 8007      If to BMS, to:      Bristol-Myers Squibb Company   
  P.O. Box 4000      Route 206   Province Line Road      Princeton, NJ 08543-4000
USA      Attention: Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Transactional Practice Group   
  Facsimile: (1-609) 252-7680      with a copy to:      Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP
     7 World Trade Center      250 Greenwich Street      New York, NY 10007 USA   
  Attention: [omitted]      Facsimile (212) 230-8888      If to the Licensee, to:   
  sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC      55 Corporate Drive      Bridgewater, NJ 08807 USA   
  Attention: [omitted]      Facsimile: (908) 981-5705      with a copy to:   
  [omitted]      General Counsel, North America      sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC
     55 Corporate Drive      Bridgewater, NJ 08807      Fax: (908) 981-7833   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      9   

and:   
  Sanofi      54, rue la Bo tie      75008 Paris, France   
  Attention: Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel   
  Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.43.03      Attention: Vice President, Alliances   Partnerships   
  Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.40.99      or to such other address or facsimile number as hereafter shall be furnished as provided in this Section 7.1 by any Party hereto to the other Parties hereto. All Notices given to any Party in
accordance with this Section 7.1 shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt if delivered by hand or overnight courier service or sent by facsimile, or on the date ten (10) business days after dispatch by certified or
registered mail (postage prepaid) if mailed.      7.2  Governing Law . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of New York, United States of America, without regard to the choice of law principles that might otherwise be applied in such jurisdiction.   
  7.3  Dispute Resolution .      (a)  Negotiation and Notice . In the event of any dispute, claim, controversy or disagreement (each, a   Dispute  ) arising out of, in connection with or relating to this Agreement
including any question regarding this Agreement s existence, validity or termination, the Parties shall first seek resolution of such Dispute by negotiation between their respective senior management. Such negotiation shall be deemed to
commence upon the service by either Sanofi or BMS upon the other of a written notice (a   Dispute Resolution Notice  ) under this  Section 7.3(a) .      (b) If a Dispute subject to negotiation under  Section 7.3(a)  is not finally resolved within thirty (30) days following receipt by either Sanofi or BMS of a Dispute Resolution Notice, the
Dispute shall be finally resolved by arbitration under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce (the   ICC  ). The arbitral tribunal shall be composed of three (3) arbitrators. Each of Sanofi and BMS
shall nominate one (1) arbitrator. The two (2) arbitrators so nominated shall nominate the presiding arbitrator. If either Sanofi or BMS fails to nominate an arbitrator in its Request for Arbitration or within thirty (30) days of
receiving written notice of the nomination of an arbitrator by the other Party, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the ICC Court. If the two (2) arbitrators to be nominated by Sanofi and BMS fail to agree upon a third arbitrator within
thirty (30) days of the nomination of the second arbitrator, the third arbitrator shall be appointed by the ICC Court. The place of arbitration shall be Paris, France and the language of the arbitration shall be English. Notwithstanding any
  
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      10   

provision to the contrary in the ICC Rules of Arbitration, each Party shall bear its own costs and expenses relating to such arbitration and all related proceedings, including fees for legal
representation. Each Party shall continue to perform its respective obligations under this Agreement and this Agreement shall remain in effect while the Dispute is being resolved. The Parties agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to this
Agreement, the Definitive Agreement, or the Settlement Agreement (including the China Opt-Out Letter) or any Alliance Agreement (as such terms are defined in the Definitive Agreement) shall be resolved in a single arbitration before the ICC,
regardless of how many parties or agreements are implicated, and specifically waive any argument that a dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be resolved in multiple arbitrations before the ICC.   
  7.4  Specific Performance . Each Party agrees that the Developed Know-How is unique, and each Party hereby acknowledges and agrees
that it and the other Parties would be damaged irreparably if any of the provisions of this Agreement are not performed in accordance with their specific terms or otherwise are breached. Accordingly, each Party shall be entitled to seek specific
performance and/or interim relief, and agrees that the arbitral tribunal constituted under Section 7.3(b) shall have the power to order specific performance or grant provisional, interim, or conservatory measures, including but not limited to
provisional injunctive relief. The Parties undertake to comply forthwith with any such provisional, interim, or conservatory measures ordered by the arbitral tribunal and agree that such measures may, to the extent not precluded by applicable law,
be enforceable as a final award in any court of competent jurisdiction. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this provision shall prevent any Party from seeking conservatory or interim measures, including, but not limited to, temporary restraining
orders or preliminary injunctions or their equivalent, from any court of competent jurisdiction before the arbitral tribunal is constituted under Section 7.3(b) or, thereafter, upon the order of the arbitral tribunal.   
  7.5  No Third Party Beneficiaries . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the Parties and
permitted sub-licensees and assigns, and nothing herein, express or implied, is intended to, or shall confer upon, any other Person any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever.   
  7.6  Assignment .      (a) None of the Parties hereto may assign any of its rights or obligations to a Third Party under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other Parties and any assignment without such
consent shall be null and void and of no effect. Each Party may assign any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement to an Affiliate of such Party without the written consent of the other Parties, provided that the assigning Party shall
remain liable for its Affiliate s performance hereunder.      (b) In no event shall the Licensee or its Affiliates be
restricted in their ability to appoint distributors for Products or to sublicense their rights hereunder in accordance with the terms hereof, so long as such appointment or sublicensing does not or would not reasonably be expected to result in an
assignment in violation of this Section 7.6. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Sanofi and its Affiliates shall be permitted to assign this Agreement without BMS s consent in connection with any divestiture permitted under Section 12.7 of
the Definitive Agreement.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      11   

7.7  Severability . If any term or other provision hereof is held to be invalid,
illegal or incapable of being enforced by applicable law or public policy, all other terms and provisions hereof shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic effect or legal substance of the transactions contemplated
hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any Party. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so
as to effect the original intent of the Parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.   
  7.8  Waivers and Amendments . No modification of or amendment to this Agreement shall be valid unless in a writing signed by the
Parties referring specifically to this Agreement and stating the Parties  intention to modify or amend the same. Any waiver of any term or condition of this Agreement shall be in a writing signed by the Party sought to be charged with such
waiver referring specifically to the term or condition to be waived, and no such waiver shall be deemed to constitute the waiver of any other breach of the same or of any other provision hereof.   
  7.9  Headings . All titles and captions contained in this Agreement are for the convenience of reference only and shall not affect
in any way the meaning or interpretation hereof.      7.10  Entire Agreement . This Agreement constitutes the entire
agreement of the Parties with respect to the subject matter contained herein and all prior agreements relative thereto which are not contained herein are hereby terminated.      7.11  No Partnership or Joint Venture . This Agreement is not intended to create, and nothing contained herein shall be construed to create an association, joint venture, trust or partnership, or to
impose a trust or partnership covenant, obligation or liability on or with regard to the other Party. Each Party shall be severally responsible for its own covenants, obligations and liabilities as herein provided. Other than the Licensee:
(i) no Party shall be under the control of, or shall be deemed to control any other Party; (ii) no Party is the legal representative, agent, joint venturer or employee of the other Party with respect to this Agreement for any purpose
whatsoever, and no Party shall have the right or power to bind the other Party; and (iii) no Party has the right or authority to assume or create any obligations of any kind or to make any representation or warranty on behalf of any other
Party, whether express or implied, or to bind any other Party in any respect whatsoever. The provisions of this Agreement are intended only for the regulation of relations between the Parties. This Agreement is not intended for the benefit of
non-Party creditors, and no rights are granted to non-Party creditors under this Agreement.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      12   

7.12  Governing Language . The Parties acknowledge that this Agreement may be
translated into the French language. The Parties agree that this English language version shall in all respects be the controlling version of this Agreement.      7.13  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute
one and the same agreement.      7.14  Force Majeure . No Party shall be in default under this Agreement, or shall have any
obligation to the other Party, if such Party is unable to perform under this Agreement by reason of act of God, fire, flood, strike, national emergency or other contingency beyond its reasonable control (a   Force Majeure  ). Such
Party shall give the other Party prompt notice of any interruption of performance on account of Force Majeure, and of the resumption of such performance, and shall keep the other Party informed on a current basis as to the steps being taken to
remove, and the anticipated time of removal of, the circumstances resulting in such Force Majeure. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Section 7.14 shall excuse or suspend the obligation to make any payment due under this Agreement
in the manner and at the time provided herein.      7.15  Definitive Agreement . For so long as (i) BMS is a party to
this Agreement and (ii) the Definitive Agreement remains in effect, in the event of any conflict or inconsistency between any provision of this Agreement and the terms of the Definitive Agreement, the Definitive Agreement shall govern with
respect to such provision.      [ Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank ]   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      13   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year
first written above.       

SANOFI  

SANOFI-AVENTIS U.S. LLC   

By:  
     
  /s/ T. Saugier  

By:  
     
  /s/ T. Saugier   

Name: T. Saugier  

Name: T. Saugier   

Title: Authorized representative  

Title: Authorized representative   

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY   

By:  
     
  /s/ Katherine Kelly   

Name: Katherine Kelly   

Title: Assistant Secretary   
    [ Signature Page to Amended and Restated Territory B1 Know-How License ]   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

SCHEDULE 1A     
    TERRITORY
B1  1         
  With respect to Irbesartan Products and Clopidogrel Products:      Argentina      Australia   
  Brazil      Canada
     Mexico      With
respect to Clopidogrel Products only:      Colombia   

1      
  Territory B1 will be deemed to include any country created by the division, consolidation or name change of the countries listed below.     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

</EX-10.Z>

<EX-10.AA>
 13
 d450621dex10aa.htm
 EX-10.AA

EX-10.aa 

Exhibit 10aa         *Confidential Treatment Requested          ASSIGNMENT AGREEMENT
       This ASSIGNMENT AGREEMENT (this   Agreement  ) dated as of January 1, 2013, is hereby made by and
among: Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership, a Delaware partnership (  JVB   Sanofi, a  soci t  anonyme  organized and existing under the laws of the French Republic
(  Sanofi   Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (  BMS   and sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC, a limited liability company organized and existing under
the laws of the State of Delaware (  Assignee  , and together with JVB, BMS and Sanofi, the   Parties   and each, individually, a   Party  ).   
    W I T N E S S E T H:         WHEREAS , Sanofi previously discovered and patented two new chemical entities, one known as SR 47436 with the international non-proprietary name Irbesartan (  Irbesartan  ) and one
known as SR 25990C with the international non-proprietary name Clopidogrel Hydrogenosulphate (  Clopidogrel     
   WHEREAS , Sanofi, BMS and Sterling Winthrop Inc., a Delaware corporation (  Sterling  ) entered into a Development
Agreement dated July 29, 1993 (the   Development Agreement  ) for, among other things, the development of Irbesartan and Clopidogrel;       WHEREAS , pursuant to an Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of September 30, 1994 among Eastman Kodak Company, Sanofi and Sterling, Sanofi acquired certain assets, and
assumed certain obligations, of the ethical pharmaceutical business of Sterling, including the rights and obligations of Sterling under the Development Agreement;       WHEREAS , Sanofi and BMS have formed JVB through their indirect wholly owned subsidiaries for, among other things, the commercialization of the Products in Territory B (as such terms are defined
herein);       WHEREAS , Sanofi and BMS have developed certain know-how under the Development Agreement for the
commercialization of the Products in certain countries, including Territory B;       WHEREAS , Sanofi and JVB have entered
into an Irbesartan Intellectual Property License Agreement (the   Territory B Irbesartan License Agreement  ) and a Clopidogrel Intellectual Property License and Supply Agreement (the   Territory B Clopidogrel License
Agreement  ), each dated as of January 1, 1997, pursuant to which Sanofi granted to JVB a license to use certain patents, trademarks and know-how that neither were developed with nor are owned by BMS, for the commercialization of the
Products in Territory B;   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

WHEREAS , Sanofi, BMS and JVB have entered into a Product Know-How License Agreement
(the   Territory B Know-How License Agreement  ), dated as of January 1, 1997, pursuant to which Sanofi and BMS granted to JVB a license under the Developed Know-How (as defined in the Territory B Know-How License Agreement) for
the commercialization of the Products in Territory B;       WHEREAS , pursuant to a master restructuring agreement (the
  Master Agreement  ), dated as of September 27, 2012, by and between Sanofi and BMS, Sanofi and BMS have agreed to simplify the overall governance, operating and financial principles of their alliance with respect to
(i) Irbesartan Products (as defined herein) worldwide (other than in Japan, which is not in their alliance) and (ii) Clopidogrel Products (as defined herein) worldwide (other than in Japan, which is not in their alliance, and in the United
States); and       WHEREAS , in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Master Agreement, Sanofi and BMS have
agreed to, among other things, assign and transfer JVB s rights and obligations under the Territory B Irbesartan License Agreement, the Territory B Clopidogrel License Agreement and the Territory B Know-How License Agreement (collectively, the
  Territory B License Agreements  ), in each case, solely with respect to Territory B1, to Assignee.       NOW,
THEREFORE , in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

1.   
    Definitions           

a)  
   Defined Terms      
    Affiliate ,  when used with reference to any Person, means any other Person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with,
such Person; provided, however, that, with respect to Sanofi, the definition of Affiliate shall exclude L Or al, a  soci t  anonyme  organized and existing under the laws of the French Republic. For the purposes of
this definition,  control  shall refer to (a) the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct the management or policies of a Person or to veto any material decision relating to the management or policies of a Person,
in each case whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; (b) the beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, of securities (excluding general partnership interests) representing at least 50% of the voting
power of all outstanding voting securities of a Person; or (c) the beneficial ownership of at least 50% of the partnership interests of a general partnership.        Clopidogrel Product   (a) a product with the sole active ingredient Clopidogrel, in finished form, marketed under the trademarks Plavix      and Iscover      or any trademark that is confusingly similar to or that is a replacement for any such trademark; and (b) a product (an   Identified Clopi FDC  )
which contains as the only active ingredients the combination of Clopidogrel with acetylsalicylic acid, in finished form, marketed under the trademarks DuoPlavin     , CoPlavix      and DuoCover      or any trademark that is confusingly similar to or that is a replacement for any such trademark. Clopidogrel
Products shall exclude any other fixed dose combinations containing Clopidogrel.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      - 2 -

IFRS Net Sales   means, with respect to a Product, net sales of Sanofi (or its Affiliates
or their respective licensees or sublicensees) as audited and reported in Euros by Sanofi (or its Affiliates or licensees) in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (  IFRS  ), as IFRS may be modified from time to
time. For the avoidance of doubt: (a) IFRS Net Sales shall not include samples, compassionate use of the Products and the like;  provided  that revenue from Products sold to third parties for clinical trial purposes shall be included in
IFRS Net Sales; and (b) any Damages paid by Sanofi pursuant to Article IX of the Master Agreement shall not be treated as a deduction for purposes of calculating IFRS Net Sales. In calculating IFRS Net Sales, the Parties shall disregard any
related Know-How, Discovery or other royalties paid to Sanofi after January 1, 2013 on Clopidogrel Products or Irbesartan Products.        Irbesartan Product   means: (a) a product with the sole active ingredient Irbesartan, in finished form, marketed under the trademarks Aprovel     , Karvea      and Avapro      or any trademark
that is confusingly similar to or that is a replacement for any such trademark; and (b) a product (an   Identified Irbe FDC  ) which contains as the only active ingredients the combination of Irbesartan with Hydrochlorothiazide,
in finished form, marketed under the trademarks CoAprovel     , Avalide      and Karvezide      or any trademark that is confusingly similar to or that is a replacement for any such trademark. Irbesartan Products shall exclude any other fixed dose combinations
containing Irbesartan.        New IP Agreement   means the FDC Intellectual Property License Agreement between Sanofi and BMS,
dated as of the date hereof.        Person   means any individual, partnership, firm, corporation,  soci t 
anonyme ,  soci t  en nom collectif ,  soci t  en participation ,  soci t  par actions simplifi e , limited liability company, joint venture, association, trust or other entity or
any government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, as well as any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a person under Section 13(d)(3) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   
    Product   means a Clopidogrel Product or an Irbesartan Product and   Products   means both a Clopidogrel Product and an
Irbesartan Product.        Territory B   means, with respect to each Territory B License Agreement,  Territory B  as such
term is defined in such Territory B License Agreement prior to amendment thereof in accordance with the terms hereof.        Territory
B1   means (i) with respect to Products, Australia, Canada, Mexico and Argentina, and (ii) with respect to Clopidogrel Products only, also Brazil and Colombia.        United States   means the United States of America, which includes any State or Commonwealth of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin
Islands, Guam, American Samoa and any other territory, possession or military base of the United States of America anywhere in the world.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      - 3 -

b)  
   Additional Defined Terms .        The following
additional defined terms shall have the meanings set forth in the sections of this Agreement listed below:       

Defined Term    
      
     Section Where Defined     

Agreement  
      
  Preamble   
 
  Assigned Obligations  
      
  3   
 
  Assigned Rights  
      
  2   
 
  Assignee  
      
  Preamble   
 
  BMS  
      
  Preamble   
 
  Clopidogrel  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Development Agreement  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Dispute  
      
  9   
 
  Dispute Resolution Notice  
      
  9   
 
  ICC  
      
  9   
 
  Irbesartan  
      
  Recitals   
 
  JVB  
      
  Preamble   
 
  Master Agreement  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Notices  
      
  7   
 
  Party  
      
  Preamble   
 
  Payment Report  
      
  5(b)   
 
  Payment Term  
      
  5(a)   
 
  Sanofi  
      
  Preamble   
 
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      - 4 -

Defined Term    
      
     Section Where Defined     

Sterling  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Territory B Clopidogrel License Agreement  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Territory B Irbesartan License Agreement  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Territory B Know-How License Agreement  
      
  Recitals   
 
  Territory B License Agreements  
      
  Recitals   

2.   
    Assignment           JVB hereby sells,
assigns, transfers and conveys to Assignee all of JVB s right, title and interest in, under and to the Territory B License Agreements, in each case, solely with respect to Territory B1 (collectively, the   Assigned Rights  ),
effective as of the date hereof.       

3.   
    Acceptance and Assumption        
  Assignee hereby (a) accepts the assignment, transfer and conveyance of the Assigned Rights; and (b) assumes, undertakes and agrees, subject to
valid claims and defenses, to fully and faithfully satisfy, perform and discharge in accordance with the terms of the Territory B License Agreements, as applicable, all obligations and liabilities of any kind arising out of, or required to be
performed under, such Territory B License Agreements, in each case, solely with respect to Territory B1 (collectively, the   Assigned Obligations  ).       

4.   
    Amendment and Restatement of License Agreements; Reservation of Rights with respect to Fixed-Dose Combination Products       

a)  
   Amendment and Restatement of License Agreements . Immediately following assignment and assumption of the Assigned Rights and the Assigned Obligations pursuant to
Sections 2 and 3 hereof, the Parties hereby agree that (i) that portion of the Territory B Clopidogrel License Agreement remaining in place between Sanofi and JVB shall be amended and restated as set forth on  Exhibit A  hereto,
(ii) that portion of the Territory B Know-How License Agreement remaining in place between Sanofi, BMS and JVB shall be amended and restated as set forth on  Exhibit B  hereto, and (iii) that portion of the Territory B Know-How
License Agreement assigned to Assignee hereunder shall be amended and restated as set forth on  Exhibit C  hereto, in each case, effective as of the date hereof and without the need for any further action by any Party or Parties to effect such
amendments and restatements.         

b)  
   Fixed Dose Combination Products . For the avoidance of doubt, the assignment to and the assumption by the Assignee of the Assigned Rights and the Assigned
Obligations hereunder, shall not affect or limit in any way the licenses granted by and to each of Sanofi and BMS under the New IP Agreement.     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      - 5 -

5.   
    Remuneration           

a)  
   Remuneration Rates . In consideration of the transfer of the Assigned Rights to Assignee, Sanofi or Assignee shall pay or cause to be paid to JVB, in accordance
with Section 5(b) hereof, the applicable percentage of IFRS Net Sales (as set forth in the tables below) of Sanofi, its Affiliates and their respective licensees of Irbesartan Products and Clopidogrel Products in Territory B1 between
January 1, 2013 and December 31, 2018 (the   Payment Term  ).         

b)  
   Payment Provisions .         

i.  
  The amounts payable to JVB pursuant to Section 5(a) hereof shall not be subject to any generic penetration/market share or parallel trade adjustments (and any
changes in such percentages in the table above from one year to the next shall be with effect as of January 1 of the year in which the new percentage applies).     

ii.  
  For the Payment Term, Sanofi or Assignee shall pay or cause to be paid to JVB all amounts due hereunder on a quarterly basis within sixty (60) days of the end of
each calendar quarter. Each such payment shall be accompanied by an accurate statement of: (a) the amount of IFRS Net Sales of the Products (denominated in Euros), set forth on a [*], relating to payments to be made to JVB during such calendar
quarter (together with the underlying calculations in reasonable detail for such amount); (b) the remuneration payments due to JVB under this Agreement set forth on a [*]; and (c) the calculation of all payments to be made to JVB for such
calendar quarter (each a   Payment Report  ). The remuneration amount shall be declared in Euros based on IFRS Net Sales and shall be paid to JVB in U.S. dollars and converted from Euros to U.S. dollars at the Designated Exchange Rate
applicable for the month in which the payment is made. The  Designated Exchange Rate  means the exchange rate applicable for each calendar month based on the prior month s daily average EUR/USD rate set by the European Central Bank
each day.     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      - 6 -

iii.  
  All payments to be made hereunder shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds, to the bank account of JVB as designated in writing to Sanofi by JVB,
unless the Parties agree to settle such payments through other means.         

iv.  
  All payments due under this Agreement shall be paid in full without deduction, except for taxes (if any) required to be withheld by applicable law with respect to such
payments. In the event Sanofi or Assignee is required under applicable law to withhold any tax to the revenue authorities in any country regarding any payment to JVB, the amount of such tax shall be deducted by Sanofi or Assignee (as applicable) and
paid to the relevant revenue authority, and Sanofi or Assignee shall notify JVB thereof and shall promptly furnish to JVB all copies of any tax certificate or other documentation evidencing such withholding. If any such tax shall subsequently be
found to be due, payment of such tax shall be the responsibility of JVB. Notwithstanding the foreoing, BMS and Sanofi shall cooperate reasonably to reduce or eliminate any such withholding tax under applicable law or treaty.

6.   
    Parties in Interest          This
Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns, and nothing herein, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other Person any legal or equitable
right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever.       
    All notices, requests or
other communications hereunder (collectively,   Notices  ) shall be in writing, shall be in the English language and shall be given or made by delivery in person, by courier service, by facsimile (with receipt confirmed) or by
registered or certified mail (return receipt requested, with postage prepaid) to the respective Parties at the following addresses:      If to Sanofi, to:      Sanofi   
  54, rue la Bo tie      75008 Paris, France      Attention: Senior Vice President, Legal
Affairs and General Counsel      Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.43.03   
  Attention: Vice President, Alliances   Partnerships   
  Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.40.99   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      - 7 -

with a copy to:   
  Weil Gotshal   Manges      767 Fifth Avenue      New York, NY 10153   
  Attention: [omitted]      Facsimile: 212-310-8007      If to BMS, to:   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company      P.O. Box 4000      Route 206   Province Line Road
     Princeton, NJ 08543-4000 USA      Attention: Vice President and Senior Counsel, Pharmaceutical Research Institute, and Worldwide        Franchise Management and Business Development      Facsimile:
649-252-4232      Attention: Vice President, Alliance Management   
  Facsimile: 609-252-7235      with a copy to:      Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP
     7 World Trade Center   
  New York, NY 10007 USA      Facsimile: 212-230-8888      Attn: [omitted]   
  If to JVB, to:      Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership   
  P.O. Box 4000      Route 206   Province Line Road      Princeton, NJ 08543-4000
USA      Attention: Vice President and Senior Counsel, Pharmaceutical Research Institute, and Worldwide   
    Franchise Management and Business Development      Facsimile: 649-252-4232      Attention: Vice President, Alliance Management
     Facsimile: 609-252-7235   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      - 8 -

with a copy to:   
  Sanofi      54, rue la Bo tie      75008 Paris, France   
  Attention: Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel   
  Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.43.03      Attention: Vice President, Alliances   Partnerships   
  Facsimile: (33.1) 53.77.40.99      If to Assignee, to:      sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC   
  55 Corporate Drive      Bridgewater, NJ 08807 USA      Attention: [omitted]   
  Facsimile: (908) 981-5705      with a copy to:      sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC   
  55 Corporate Drive      Bridgewater, NJ 08807 USA      Attention: [omitted]   
  Facsimile: (908) 981-7833      and      Weil Gotshal   Manges   
  767 Fifth Avenue      New York, NY 10153      Attention: [omitted]   
  Facsimile: 212-310-8007       

8.   
    Governing Law           This Agreement
shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts executed and performed entirely in that state, without regard to any principles of conflicts of laws thereof.   

9.   
    Dispute Resolution           

a)  
     Negotiation and Notice . In the event of any dispute, claim, controversy or disagreement (each, a   Dispute  ) arising out of, in
connection with or relating to this Agreement, including any question regarding this Agreement s existence, validity or termination, the Parties shall      
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      - 9 -

first seek resolution of such Dispute by negotiation between their respective senior management. Such negotiation shall be deemed to commence upon the service by either Party upon the other of a
written notice (a   Dispute Resolution Notice  ) under this  Section 9(a) .         

b)  
   Arbitration . If a Dispute subject to negotiation under Section 9(a) is not finally resolved within thirty (30) days following receipt by one Party of a
Dispute Resolution Notice, the Dispute shall be finally resolved by arbitration under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce (the   ICC  ). The arbitral tribunal shall be composed of three
(3) arbitrators. Each Party shall nominate one (1) arbitrator. The two arbitrators so nominated shall nominate the presiding arbitrator. If either Party fails to nominate an arbitrator in its Request for Arbitration or within thirty
(30) days of receiving written notice of the nomination of an arbitrator by the other Party, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the ICC Court. If the two (2) arbitrators to be nominated by the Parties fail to agree upon a third
arbitrator within thirty (30) days of the nomination of the second arbitrator, the third arbitrator shall be appointed by the ICC Court. The place of arbitration shall be Paris, France and the language of the arbitration shall be English.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in the ICC Rules of Arbitration, each Party shall bear its own costs and expenses relating to such arbitration and all related proceedings, including fees for legal representation. Each Party shall
continue to perform its respective obligations under this Agreement and this Agreement shall remain in effect while the Dispute is being resolved.         
    If any term or other
provision hereof is held to be invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by applicable law or public policy, all other terms and provisions hereof shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic effect or legal
substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any Party. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the Parties shall negotiate
in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the Parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest
extent possible.       

11.   
    Waivers and Amendments           No
modification of or amendment to this Agreement shall be valid unless in a writing signed by the Parties referring specifically to this Agreement and stating the Parties  intention to modify or amend the same. Any waiver of any term or condition
of this Agreement shall be in a writing signed by the Party sought to be charged with such waiver referring specifically to the term or condition to be waived, and no such waiver shall be deemed to constitute the waiver of any other breach of the
same or of any other provision hereof.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      - 10 -

All titles and captions
contained in this Agreement are for the convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation hereof.       
 
  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which when taken
together shall constitute one and the same agreement.      [ The remainder of this page is intentionally left blank. ]
  
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      - 11 -

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have duly executed and delivered this Agreement as of
the date first written above.       

SANOFI   

By:  
     
  /s/ T. Saugier   

Name: T. Saugier     Title:
Authorized representative    

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY   

By:  
     
  /s/ Katherine Kelly   

Name: Katherine Kelly  
  Title: Assistant Secretary    
    BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB SANOFI PHARMACEUTICALS HOLDING PARTNERSHIP   

Represented by:      
  BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB INVESTCO, L.L.C.    

By:  
     
  /s/ Katherine Kelly   

Name: Katherine Kelly  
  Title: Secretary    

Witnessed by:      
  SANOFI-AVENTIS U.S. LLC    

By:  
     
  /s/ T. Saugier   

Name: T. Saugier     Title:
Authorized representative    

SANOFI-AVENTIS U.S. LLC   

By:  
     
  /s/ T. Saugier   

Name: T. Saugier     Title:
Authorized representative    
      [ Signature Page to B1 Assignment Agreement ]     
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

EXHIBIT A       Amended and Restated Territory B Clopidogrel License Agreement      See form attached
as Exhibit 2.1(a)(ii) to the Master Agreement   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

EXHIBIT B       Amended and Restated Territory B Know-How License Agreement      See form attached as
Exhibit 2.1(a)(iii) to the Master Agreement   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

EXHIBIT C       Amended and Restated Territory B1 Know-How License Agreement      See form attached as
Exhibit 2.1(a)(iv) of the Master Agreement   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

</EX-10.AA>

<EX-10.EE>
 14
 d450621dex10ee.htm
 EX-10.EE

EX-10.ee 

Exhibit 10ee         *Confidential Treatment Requested         AMENDMENT TO OTSUKA-BMS
ABILIFY AGREEMENTS       THIS AMENDMENT TO OTSUKA-BMS ABILIFY AGREEMENTS (  Amendment  ), effective as of
October 29, 2012 (  Amendment Effective Date  ), is by and between Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (  Otsuka  ), a corporation organized and existing under the laws of Japan, having a principal place of business at
Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Konan, Minato-Ku, Tokyo, 108-8242 Japan, and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (  BMS  ), a corporation organized and existing under the laws of Delaware, having a principal place of business at Route
206 and Province Line Road, Princeton, New Jersey, 08540, USA. Otsuka and BMS shall be referred to herein individually as a   Party   and collectively as the   Parties .    
   RECITALS    
  WHEREAS, Otsuka and BMS entered into that certain Restated Development and Commercialization Collaboration Agreement dated
October 23, 2001, and an Amendment No. 1 (dated March 28, 2003), an Amendment No. 2 (dated June 5, 2003), an Amendment No. 3 (dated September 25, 2006), an Amendment No. 4 (dated October 31, 2007), an
Amendment No. 5 (dated April 4, 2009) (  Amendment No. 5  ), an Amendment No. 6 (dated June 1, 2010), an Amendment No. 7 (dated October 2011), and an Amendment No. 8 (dated as of January 1,
2012) (  Amendment No. 8  ) thereto (such Agreement, as amended by such Amendments, being collectively referred to herein as the   Restated Agreement     
  WHEREAS, pursuant to Amendment No. 5, the Parties agreed, among other things, to extend the term of the Restated Agreement in the
United States until April [*], 2015 (the   U.S. Term  ) and to allocate and share Operational Expenses (as defined in Amendment No. 5) and Net Sales of Product (as such terms are defined in the Restated Agreement) in the United
States in accordance with the applicable percentages set forth in Amendment No.       WHEREAS, Otsuka and BMS entered into
that certain U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement effective as of January 1, 2010, and an Amendment No. 1 to the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement effective as of January 1, 2012 (the   Co-Commercialization
Amendment  ) (such Agreement, as amended by such Co-Commercialization Amendment, being collectively referred to herein as the   U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement     
  WHEREAS, as required by Amendment No. 5, the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement sets forth, among other things, the number of MRs
and MSLs (stated as full-time equivalents (FTEs)) required to be deployed by the Parties and the number of PDEs required to be provided by the Parties in the United States through [*];   
  WHEREAS, in part to address transitions of Product sales efforts to Otsuka and minimize disruption to the promotion of the Product caused
by such transitions, the Parties entered into the Co-Commercialization Amendment, pursuant to which BMS agreed (among other things) to deploy more MRs in the United States in 2012 and 2013 than it was required to deploy when the U.S.
Co-Commercialization Agreement was originally executed, and the Parties entered into that   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

certain Europe Commercial Resources Agreement effective as of January 1, 2012 (the   Europe Commercial Resources Agreement  ), pursuant to which BMS agreed (among other
things) to deploy sales representatives in the European Union (as defined in the Restated Agreement) through [*];      WHEREAS,
Otsuka and BMS now desire to further amend and supplement certain terms and conditions of the Restated Agreement, the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement, the Europe Commercial Resources Agreement and, as applicable, related ancillary agreements
between the Parties and/or their Affiliates; and      WHEREAS, Otsuka and BMS desire that all other terms and conditions of the
Restated Agreement, the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement, the Europe Commercial Resources Agreement and related ancillary agreements between the Parties and/or their Affiliates remain in full force and effect, except to the extent amended by this
Amendment;      NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged,
Otsuka and BMS agree as follows:       ARTICLE I       
    DEFINITIONS         1.1  Capitalized terms in this Amendment shall have the same meaning as those in the Restated Agreement, unless specifically defined otherwise in this Amendment or in the U.S. Co-Commercialization
Agreement. As used throughout this Amendment, the term  European Union  shall have the same meaning as in the Restated Agreement, and, for clarity is defined to include Norway, Switzerland and Iceland, in addition to the member countries
of the European Union.       ARTICLE II            UNITED STATES PROVISIONS         2.1   Termination of BMS MR and
MSL Obligations in the United States . Commencing January 1, 2013, BMS shall have no further obligation under the Restated Agreement or the U.S. Co-Commercialization to deploy MRs to Detail Product (including, without limitation, no
obligation to provide PDEs) in the United States or to deploy MSLs to conduct medical activities relating to Product in the United States. As of January 1, 2013, and for the remainder of the U.S. Term, BMS shall have no obligation to diligently
promote Product in the United States, and the terms and conditions of Sections 2.3(b) and (c), 2.4 through 2.7, 2.11 and 2.12 of the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement shall not apply to BMS with respect to the period beginning January 1, 2013
through to the end of the U.S. Term, but BMS shall otherwise continue to support Product in the United States as provided herein.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      2.   

2.2   Transition of Product Personnel Responsibilities in the United States .
      (a)  Upon execution of this Amendment and the execution of a mutually-agreed communications plan, Otsuka shall have the
right (but not the obligation) to offer to interview and to offer to hire all of the MRs, Regional Directors (  RDs  ), District Managers (  DMs  ) and MSLs in the United States who are employed by BMS and are working
in connection with Product (collectively,   Product Personnel  ) for employment by Otsuka as soon as possible. Otsuka shall use commercially reasonable efforts to complete its hiring of Product Personnel on or before December 31,
2012. To the extent legally permissible, BMS shall facilitate Otsuka s opportunity to commence to interview all Product Personnel by no later than November 1, 2012. BMS shall inform all Product Personnel as soon as reasonably possible of
the opportunity to interview with Otsuka, including at the time BMS extends offers (if BMS does extend offers) to any such Product Personnel to fill other product positions within BMS and, in the event BMS has extended such offers to any Product
Personnel before Otsuka s offer to interview and announcement of openings, by notifying those Product Personnel to whom BMS has made such offers of the opportunity for such Product Personnel to interview with Otsuka for openings at Otsuka. To
promote an efficient interview process, BMS shall provide to all Product Personnel, in advance of Otsuka s interviews, a [*] containing the following information: (i) [*] for, (ii) [*], and (iii) [*]. Such Product Personnel shall
have the right, in their discretion, to provide such [*] to Otsuka. Following Otsuka s hiring of any Product Personnel, Otsuka shall inform BMS of the identity of the hired Product Personnel and, as soon as practicable thereafter, BMS shall
certify in writing to Otsuka that such Product Personnel have received sales certifications with respect to Product and the date(s) of such certifications. Such Product Personnel shall also have the right, in their discretion, to provide a summary
of their individual training records to Otsuka, and BMS shall make such summaries of training records available to such Product Personnel prior to their departure from BMS.       (b)  Otsuka and BMS shall work closely together to promptly generate and agree upon a communications plan relating to the transition of U.S. Product promotion responsibilities and medical field
activities from BMS to Otsuka and communicating the opportunities for Product Personnel to be interviewed and hired by Otsuka. This communications plan will include access by all Product Personnel to a WebEx to be prepared by Otsuka explaining such
employment opportunities at Otsuka.       (c)  In order to ensure a smooth and effective transition of Product promotion
responsibilities and medical field activities in the United States, and to minimize disruption to the overall Product sales effort in the United States during the transition of promotion responsibilities and medical field activities from BMS to
Otsuka, BMS shall continue to fulfill all of its existing Product Personnel obligations and Required Resource Commitment under the Restated Agreement and the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement, including relating to MRs and PDEs, through
December 31, 2012, except only to the extent of a reduction of Product Personnel (and related PDEs) who are hired by Otsuka or, after having been made aware of the opportunity to interview with Otsuka, voluntarily depart BMS prior to that date.
Without limiting the foregoing, through December 31, 2012, BMS shall use commercially reasonable efforts to continue to deploy the same Product Personnel as the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement currently obligates BMS to deploy, solely to
Detail or otherwise work in connection with Product, and no other products, with   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      3.   

no layoffs, reassignments or other personnel changes or territory or field revisions, except only to the extent such Product Personnel are hired by Otsuka or, after having been made aware of the
opportunity to interview with Otsuka, voluntarily depart BMS. BMS shall work diligently to minimize disruption to Product promotion and medical field activities and responsibilities in the United States. In the event any Product Personnel, after
having been made aware of the opportunity to interview with Otsuka, are offered and elect to accept other positions within BMS through a competitive bidding process, BMS shall not transfer such Product Personnel to such other positions until on or
after January 1, 2013, and BMS shall use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that such Product Personnel continue their work in connection with Product through December 31, 2012.   
   (d)  In recognition of the Parties  efforts to transition Product Personnel responsibilities to Otsuka as soon as possible
during the fourth quarter of 2012, the remedies specified in Sections 2.8, 2.9, 2.10 and 2.12 of the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement shall not apply to either Party with respect to the period beginning October 1, 2012 through to the end of
the U.S. Term.       (e)  Without limiting Otsuka s right to offer to interview and offer to hire all Product Personnel
as provided and permitted in Paragraph 2.2(a) above, until [*], neither Party shall recruit, induce or solicit for hire any former Product Personnel employed by the other Party (i.e., Otsuka will not recruit or solicit for hire any former Product
Personnel who have accepted other positions within BMS through a competitive bidding process after being informed of their opportunity to interview with Otsuka, and BMS will not recruit or solicit for hire any former Product Personnel who are hired
by Otsuka).       2.3   Transition of U.S. Assumed Functions to Otsuka .   
   (a)  The collaboration between the Parties shall continue in accordance with the terms of the Restated Agreement, the U.S.
Co-Commercialization Agreement and ancillary Product-related agreements, except as amended hereby. BMS shall continue to fulfill, at its sole expense (except as set forth in Paragraph 2.6 below), all of its existing obligations under the Restated
Agreement and the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement relating to Product promotion-related commercial functions and medical affairs functions in the United States, including, without limitation, relating to marketing, promotional compliance, market
access, pricing and advocacy, sales training and medical affairs, but excluding (beginning January 1, 2013) the actual deployment of MRs and MSLs in the United States, subject to Otsuka assuming many of such functions as provided in Paragraph
2.3(b) below. For the avoidance of doubt, BMS shall also continue to fulfill all of its other obligations under the Restated Agreement, the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement and Product-related ancillary agreements between the Parties and/or their
Affiliates, including all obligations and functions that are not included in the U.S. Assumed Functions (as defined below), for the period of time as provided in such agreements.   
   (b)  In addition to the transition of MR and MSL responsibilities to Otsuka in the United States as provided in Paragraph 2.2
above, Otsuka shall assume responsibility and authority for certain other Product-related functions (which BMS is currently obligated to   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      4.   

perform) in the United States at different times during 2013 or 2014, at Otsuka s sole expense. The specific Product-related functions that will be assumed by Otsuka (as provided in this
Paragraph 2.3 and in Paragraph 4.1 below) are set forth in  Exhibit A-1  and  Exhibit A-2  to this Amendment (as such exhibits may be modified in accordance with Paragraph 2.3(c) below) and shall be referred to herein as   U.S.
Assumed Functions .     Exhibit A-1  and  Exhibit A-2  (as such exhibits may be modified in accordance with Paragraph 2.3(c) below) also set forth the anticipated timing of the transition from BMS to Otsuka of responsibility
and authority for such U.S. Assumed Functions.       (c)  The U.S. Assumed Functions that Otsuka will assume as of
January 1, 2013 are set forth in  Exhibit A-1  to this Amendment. Except as set forth on Exhibit A-1, Otsuka may inform the Transition Planning Liaison of BMS on or before November 15, 2012 of any modifications to  Exhibit A-1 
that Otsuka has decided upon, which may include modifying  Exhibit A-1  to add or remove functions that Otsuka will assume and/or to change transition timelines for functions set forth in  Exhibit A-1 . After November 15, 2012, the
Parties must mutually agree upon any modifications to  Exhibit A-1  to this Amendment. The U.S. Assumed Functions that Otsuka contemplates assuming by [*], or later, are set forth in  Exhibit A-2  to this Amendment. Otsuka may inform the
Transition Planning Liaison of BMS on or before December 31, 2012 of any modifications to  Exhibit A-2  that Otsuka has decided upon, which may include modifying  Exhibit A-2  to remove functions that Otsuka will assume, and/or to
delay transition timelines for functions set forth in  Exhibit A-2 , and/or to accelerate the transition timelines for any functions to a point on or after [*]. The Parties must mutually agree upon any modifications to  Exhibit A-2  to
this Amendment (i) after December 31, 2012, or (ii) to add any functions to those on  Exhibit A-2  that Otsuka will assume, or (iii) to accelerate the transition timelines for any functions on  Exhibit A-2  to a point
prior to [*]. Upon Otsuka s informing the Transition Planning Liaison of BMS informing BMS of modifications to  Exhibit A-1  or  Exhibit A-2  within the time period(s) specified above, or in the event that the Parties mutually agree
to modify  Exhibit A-1  or  Exhibit A-2  at any time,  Exhibit A-1  and/or  Exhibit A-2  (as applicable) shall be deemed modified. Such modified exhibit(s) shall replace  Exhibit A-1  and/or  Exhibit A-2  attached to
this Amendment (as applicable) and shall delineate those Product-related functions that will be assumed by Otsuka (U.S. Assumed Functions) and the anticipated timing for transition to Otsuka of the U.S. Assumed Functions (on a function-by-function
basis).       (d)  In furtherance of a smooth and timely transition to Otsuka of the U.S. Assumed Functions, the Parties
shall discuss and use commercially reasonable efforts to agree upon a detailed transition plan by no later than December 31, 2012. In addition, during the period the Parties are discussing such transition plan, Otsuka or a representative of a
consulting firm being retained by Otsuka, shall have the right to meet with BMS personnel performing various functions that Otsuka is contemplating assuming as provided in this Paragraph 2.3, to help determine necessary capabilities, specific
functions being performed, whether it would be better for Otsuka or BMS to perform certain functions and for how long, and to understand systems, processes, third party services, contracts, relationships, etc., relevant to such functions that Otsuka
is contemplating assuming. BMS shall cooperate with Otsuka in this process, including (as Otsuka and BMS deem appropriate) by establishing transition teams and e-rooms for depositing relevant   

         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      5.   

data, contracts and information. Promptly after the Amendment Effective Date, each Party shall appoint a Transition Planning Liaison to facilitate transition planning and shall inform the other
Party of the person it has appointed.       (e)  Further to facilitate the smooth and timely transition to Otsuka of the U.S.
Assumed Functions, within [*] after the Amendment Effective Date, the Parties shall form a Transition Committee, which shall be comprised of an equal number of representatives from each Party, each with the requisite experience, seniority and
authority to enable such representative to monitor, coordinate and make decisions on behalf of the Parties with respect to transition issues. The Transition Committee shall be a subcommittee of the JCC. Such Transition Committee shall meet on a
monthly basis in person or by conference call to review, oversee, coordinate, discuss the status of, and facilitate the transition of the U.S. Assumed Functions from BMS to Otsuka, until such time as the transition from BMS to Otsuka of all U.S.
Assumed Functions is completed in accordance with the agreed transition plan. Employees or consultants of either Party who are not members of the Transition Committee may attend meetings of the Transition Committee on an  ad hoc  basis. In
addition, given the importance of the ongoing collaboration between the Parties and the importance to both Parties of a smooth and timely transition, on a bi-monthly basis (i.e. once every other month) until such time as the transition from BMS to
Otsuka of all U.S. Assumed Functions is completed in accordance with the agreed transition plan, the President of Otsuka and a member of the Senior Management Team of BMS shall meet in person or by telephone to discuss the transition of the U.S.
Assumed Functions from BMS to Otsuka.       (f)  During the transition of the U.S. Assumed Functions from BMS to Otsuka, BMS
shall transfer or make readily available to Otsuka all commercial, medical and other data, records and information related to Product or such U.S. Assumed Functions, including, without limitation, the data, records and information set forth in
 Exhibit B  attached to this Amendment. Such transfer shall be on a timely basis, as reasonably requested or as reasonably appropriate to effect the timely transition of the U.S. Assumed Functions from BMS to Otsuka. In addition, BMS shall
cooperate with the transition to Otsuka of the U.S. Assumed Functions by (among other things) offering Otsuka ([*]) reasonable access to and guidance from BMS personnel both prior to and during the transition of various functions and
responsibilities. Following completion of the transition to Otsuka of the various U.S. Assumed Functions, and continuing until the expiration of the U.S. Term, BMS shall continue to provide Otsuka ([*]) with reasonable access to and guidance from
BMS personnel who have experience and knowledge relating to such U.S. Assumed Functions       (g)  Notwithstanding the
transition to Otsuka of the U.S. Assumed Functions, Otsuka anticipates the possibility that Otsuka may not, at the outset, employ sufficient personnel to perform all such functions prior to completion of the transition. In the event Otsuka may not
be able to employ sufficient personnel to perform any one or more U.S. Assumed Function(s) prior to completion of the transition, Otsuka will, as soon as reasonably practicable (but in any event no later than December 3, 2012), inform BMS of
such personnel shortfall, including the specific U.S. Assumed Function(s) (the   Specified Functions  ) and the number of personnel (or full-time equivalents) performing the Specified Functions that Otsuka will not be able to employ
prior to completing the transition; provided that Specified Functions may not include functions that are set   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      6.   

forth on Exhibit A-1 and are noted thereon as functions that will be transferred to Otsuka as of January 1, 2013 unless otherwise mutually agreed (i.e. Specified Functions may not include
items on Exhibit A-1 that are asterisked). For example, if Otsuka requires [*] employees to perform certain Product marketing functions and, at the outset, Otsuka will only be able to hire [*] such employees, Otsuka will inform BMS of a shortfall of
[*] Product marketing Specified Functions. From and after the date Otsuka informs BMS of the Specified Functions and the specific shortfall in the number of personnel performing such Specified Functions, BMS shall provide personnel (or full-time
equivalents), equal in number to the shortfall specified by Otsuka, who are knowledgeable and competent to perform the Specified Functions, until the earlier of (i) the date on which Otsuka employs other personnel to perform such Specified
Functions or (ii) December 31, 2013. Otsuka shall reimburse BMS s direct costs of the BMS personnel (or full-time equivalents) performing the Specified Functions beginning on the date set forth in  Exhibit A-1  or  Exhibit
A-2  (as applicable) by which the Specified Function(s) being performed by such personnel are scheduled to transfer to Otsuka, until the earlier of the date on which Otsuka employs other personnel to perform such Specified Functions, or [*]. The
Parties shall agree upon a commercially reasonable cost-sharing mechanism for the BMS personnel performing the Specified Functions.       2.4   Otsuka s Deployment of [*] MRs in the United States .   
   (a)  In accordance with Section 2.11(a) of the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement, BMS hereby agrees that Otsuka may deploy
up to [*] MRs   Additional MRs  ) to Detail Product to any HCPs appropriate to one or more approved indications of Product (including with a focus on [*]), starting no earlier than the Amendment Effective Date. Otsuka and BMS shall
work together to promptly generate and agree upon a communication plan relating to the deployment of the Additional MRs and the messaging/promotional materials to be used by the Additional MRs.   
   (b)  As soon as reasonably practical, BMS shall provide the Additional MRs with (i) Product promotional samples across the
tablet dosing range, in quantities reasonably requested by Otsuka, and (ii) Product promotional materials (including package inserts and promotional aids) comparable to those being used by MRs in the United States as of the Amendment Effective
Date;  provided  that, the costs of any Product promotional samples and Product promotional materials utilized by the Additional MRs will be borne solely by Otsuka. BMS shall provide Product promotional materials for the Additional MRs (as well
as for all of Otsuka s Product MRs) through [*], or for such longer period as the Parties may mutually agree upon. BMS shall provide the Additional MRs (as well as all of Otsuka s Product MRs) with Product promotional samples across the
tablet dosing range until the expiration of the U.S. Term and thereafter for so long as BMS continues to manufacture Product under the Restated Agreement and related Product supply agreements.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      7.   

2.5   Otsuka Freedom to Operate in the United States .   
   (a)  In recognition of Otsuka s assumption of the responsibility to deploy all MRs and MSLs for Product in the United States
beginning January 1, 2013, and also to assume multiple other responsibilities and functions previously performed by BMS (the U.S. Assumed Functions), commencing January 1, 2013, Otsuka shall have freedom to operate in the United States
with respect to Commercialization of Product, with no further restrictions or obligations under the Restated Agreement or the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement, but subject to Paragraph 2.5(b) and Paragraph 5.1 below. Without limiting the
foregoing, beginning January 1, 2013: the terms and conditions of Sections 2.3(b) and (c), 2.4 through 2.7, 2.11 and 2.12 of the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement shall not apply to Otsuka, and the obligations set forth in such Sections shall
fall solely within the discretion of Otsuka; Otsuka shall not have any obligation to diligently promote Product in the United States; and there shall be no restrictions or limitations on Otsuka s right to (or the manner in which it does so)
promote Product or conduct other Product-related Commercialization activities, either itself or with or through a third party in the United States (except to the extent any such other Product-related Commercialization activities are retained by BMS
as provided in Paragraph 4.2 below).       (b)  Commencing January 1, 2013, subject to Paragraph 5.1(b) below, Otsuka
shall have sole responsibility and authority for generating the Commercial Plan, Marketing Plan and other plans and budgets related to Commercial Operations in the United States, including plans relating to deployment of MRs and MSLs (including the
Target Call List) and budgets of A P expenses and other Operational Expenses;  provided , however, that the Parties have agreed upon a revised budget for A P expenses and other shared Operational Expenses for calendar years 2013, 2014
and 2015, which revised budget is attached as  Exhibit C  to this Amendment (the   Shared Expense Budget  ), and which replaces in its entirety  Exhibit 1  to the Co-Commercialization Amendment, and Otsuka shall have no
authority to reduce the A P expenses set forth in the Shared Expense Budget without the written consent of BMS. Otsuka may, however, increase such A P expenses, in its discretion and at it cost.   
   2.6   United States Operational Expenses .       (a)  Through December 31, 2012, BMS and Otsuka shall share Operational Expenses, including the MR and MSL FTE and indirect costs, A P, distribution, R D and other marketing expenses, in
accordance with the Restated Agreement and the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement.       (b)  Commencing January 1,
2013, Otsuka shall bear all Otsuka MR and MSL direct and indirect costs. However, in exchange for Otsuka agreeing to assume MR and MSL responsibilities for the period from January 1, 2013 through [*], BMS shall pay Otsuka s Affiliate,
Otsuka America Pharmaceutical Inc. (  OAPI  ), the total sum of [*] which is equal to the [*] of [*] for the [*] BMS shall remit such sum in cash to OAPI between [*] and [*].   
   (c)  Commencing January 1, 2013, and continuing until the expiration of the U.S. Term, notwithstanding the transition to
Otsuka of the U.S. Assumed Functions as provided in   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      8.   

Paragraphs 2.3 and 4.1 herein, BMS and Otsuka shall continue to share the following Operational Expenses: distribution, R D (excluding MSL costs) and other marketing expenses (collectively,
  Other Operational Expenses  ) in accordance with the Restated Agreement and the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement, up to the amount of such Other Operational Expenses budgeted in the Shared Expense Budget attached as  Exhibit
C  to this Amendment (or such other mutually agreed upon budgeted amounts). For the avoidance of doubt,  Other Operational Expenses  exclude MR and MSL FTE and indirect costs and A P expenses. Any Other Operational Expenses that
exceed the budgeted amounts set forth in the Shared Expense Budget attached as  Exhibit C  to this Amendment (or other mutually agreed budgeted amounts) for any calendar year beginning 2013 shall be borne by Otsuka. For clarity, if actual Other
Operational Expenses incurred in a calendar year beginning 2013 are below the agreed budgeted amounts, BMS shall pay [*] of such actual Other Operational Expenses incurred.       (d)  Commencing January 1, 2013, and continuing until the expiration of the U.S. Term, BMS and Otsuka shall share A P expenses (excluding  other marketing expenses  that are
included in Other Operational Expenses) as follows: (a) in calendar year 2013, [*] of all A P expenses as incurred, up to and including [*], and [*] of all A P expenses that exceed [*]; (b) in calendar year 2014, [*] of all A P
expenses as incurred, up to and including [*], and [*] of all A P expenses that exceed [*] as incurred; and (c) in calendar year 2015, through April [*], 2015, [*] of all A P expenses as incurred, up to and including [*], and [*] of all
A P expenses that exceed [*] as incurred. The Parties agree to spend no less than the amount of the budgeted A P expenses set forth in the Shared Expense Budget attached as  Exhibit C  to this Amendment (or other mutually agreed
budgeted amounts), except in the event of Generic Sales (as defined in Amendment No. 5), in which event the Parties shall mutually agree on an appropriate reduction of A P expenses (and cost-sharing percentages associated therewith).
      2.7 Puerto Rico and other U.S. Territories . Solely for purposes of this Article 2 and the transfer of responsibilities
described in this Article 2, the  United States  means the fifty (50) states of the United States of America (and the District of Columbia), but excludes Puerto Rico and all of the other territories and possessions of the United
States. For the avoidance of doubt, as set forth in the Restated Agreement, Puerto Rico and all of the other territories and possessions of the United States remain part of the United States for all other purposes, including for purposes of revenue
sharing under the Restated Agreement.       ARTICLE III       
    EUROPEAN UNION/REST OF TERRITORY PROVISIONS         3.1   European Union Promotion .       (a)  BMS shall deploy sales
representatives in the European Union through [*] in accordance with the Europe Commercial Resources Agreement, and shall have no obligation to deploy sales representatives in the European Union on or after [*]. In addition, pursuant to the Europe
Commercial Resources Agreement, BMS shall expend certain additional operational expenses in support of the sales representatives deployed by BMS through [*], and Otsuka shall reimburse BMS up to a specified amount of such additional operational
expenses actually   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      9.   

expended by BMS, as set forth in the Europe Commercial Resources Agreement. In accordance with the Restated Agreement, Otsuka is currently co-promoting Product in the European Union Co-Promotion
Countries and the Nordic Countries (as defined in Amendment No. 5) (collectively, the   G5/Nordic Countries  ). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Restated Agreement, the Europe Commercial Resources Agreement or any
other Product-related agreement between the Parties and/or their Affiliates, from and after the Amendment Effective Date, Otsuka shall have the right to deploy its own and any contract sales organization s sales representatives to promote
Product in any of the G5/Nordic Countries without restriction, including no limitation on the number of sales representatives deployed;  provided  that, if Otsuka (itself or using a contract sales organization) deploys sales representatives to
promote Product in any G5/Nordics Country prior to transfer of Local Representative status from BMS to Otsuka (or to a third party designated by Otsuka) in such country, such sales representatives (i.e. sales representatives of Otsuka or such
contract sales organization) must use Product promotional materials approved by BMS or its Affiliates and must comply with reasonable applicable policies of BMS or its Affiliates in such country, until such time as Local Representative status is so
transferred in such country. For clarity, other than a contract sales organization as described above, no third party shall have the right to promote Product in any G5/Nordics Country prior to transfer of Local Representative status from BMS to
Otsuka (or to a third party designated by Otsuka) in such country.       (b)  At such time as BMS ceases to deploy sales
representatives to actively promote Product in any country in the European Union, on a country-by-country basis following transfer of Local Representative status in such country to Otsuka or a third party designated by Otsuka, Otsuka shall have
unilateral freedom to operate with respect to promotion of Product in each such country, with no further obligations (other than revenue sharing with BMS in accordance with the Restated Agreement) or restrictions (including, without limitation, no
restrictions on Otsuka s right to promote Product or conduct other Product promotion-related and medical affairs activities, itself or with or through a third party) under the Restated Agreement, the Europe Commercial Resources Agreement or any
other Product-related agreements between the Parties and/or their Affiliates. BMS (or its Affiliates at the European level and/or the country level), Otsuka (or its Affiliates at the European level and/or the country level) and any third party that
will be deploying sales representatives to promote Product in the European Union shall work together to ensure a smooth transition of the sales representatives  Product promotional efforts, and shall discuss and shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to agree on one or more transition plan(s) to ensure local coordination of transitional efforts. During the transition period, BMS or its Affiliate shall transfer or make readily available to Otsuka or a third party designated by
Otsuka all information and records related to Product promotion in the European Union, including Product promotion-related materials, target call lists, and HCP contact records for all HCPs on the target call lists for calendar years 2010, 2011,
2012 and for the first quarter of 2013. Despite the changes in this Paragraph 3.1, BMS and Otsuka shall continue to share Net Sales in each such country in the European Union in accordance with the Restated Agreement (including the agreed allocation
set forth therein).       3.2   Rest of Territory Promotion . At such time as BMS ceases to deploy sales representatives
to actively promote Product in any country in the Rest of Territory, Otsuka shall   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      10.

have the right, on a country-by-country basis, to request to promote Product to healthcare professionals in such country(ies), either itself or with or through a third party. Otsuka s
request shall be subject to the consent of BMS, which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. BMS and Otsuka will discuss the reasonable conditions under which Otsuka or a third party designated by Otsuka may begin promoting Product in each
such country, including any local regulatory or compliance requirements in such country, and BMS policies (which shall be provided to Otsuka) relating to Product promotional activities that must be met (such that BMS would not bear compliance risk).
For each country in the Rest of Territory in which Otsuka requests to promote Product and BMS consents to the same, the Parties (or their Affiliates) and any third party designated by Otsuka shall discuss and use commercially reasonable efforts to
agree upon a plan for transitioning Product promotion responsibilities in such country to Otsuka or a third party designated by Otsuka, including coordinating such promotion with other commercial activities, if any, which shall remain the
responsibility of BMS in such country. During the transition period in each such country, BMS or its Affiliate shall use commercially reasonable efforts to transfer or make readily available to Otsuka or a third party designated by Otsuka all
relevant information and records related to Product promotion in such country in order to facilitate such transition. For clarity, if Otsuka elects to promote in a given country in the Rest of Territory, it will be at Otsuka s sole expense, and
there will be no change to the sharing of Net Sales in each such country in the Rest of Territory in accordance with the Restated Agreement (including the agreed allocation set forth therein). In addition, the Parties will agree on a process for
communicating Product forecasts for manufacturing purposes.       3.3   Other Product-Related Obligations . On a
country-by-country basis in the European Union and the Rest of Territory, where Otsuka (or a third party designee) is promoting Product as provided in Section 3.1 and 3.2 above, the Parties acknowledge that Otsuka (or a third party) may desire
to assume one or more Product-related obligations (in addition to any Product promotion-related activities that Otsuka may assume in accordance with Paragraphs 3.1 and 3.2 above) in such country prior to the expiration of the Restated Agreement,
including regulatory, distribution and/or pharmacovigilance (  PV  ) obligations (  Other Product-Related Obligations  ), that BMS otherwise is and would be required to continue to perform in accordance with the
Restated Agreement and other applicable Product-related agreements between the Parties and/or their Affiliates, including the Post-Termination Services Agreement. In the event that the Parties mutually agree with respect to Otsuka s (or such
third party s) assumption of certain Other Product-Related Obligations, the Parties shall discuss and use commercially reasonable efforts to agree upon a plan to ensure local coordination of the transition from BMS to Otsuka (or such third
party) of such agreed Other Product-Related Obligations, and Otsuka (or such third party) will assume such agreed Other Product-Related Obligations, on a country-by-country basis, as soon as reasonable (provided that any PV activities assumed by
Otsuka or such third party will be limited to collecting safety data information and transferring such information to BMS, unless Otsuka elects to assume global PV responsibilities).   
   3.4   Revenue Sharing . Notwithstanding the transition to Otsuka or a third party designated by Otsuka of Product promotion or
some other Product-related functions in any country in the European Union or the Rest of Territory, in accordance with Paragraphs 3.1, 3.2 or 3.3 above, BMS and Otsuka shall continue to share Net Sales in each such country in accordance with the
Restated Agreement (including the agreed allocation set forth therein).   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      11.

ARTICLE IV       
    TERRITORY-WIDE PROVISIONS         4.1   Transition of Clinical and Certain Regulatory Functions in the Territory . BMS shall continue to perform clinical and regulatory functions related to Product in the Territory in
accordance with the Restated Agreement. As soon as reasonably practicable for Otsuka (currently contemplated to be by no later than [*]), Otsuka shall assume responsibility and authority for certain clinical and regulatory activities relating to
Product in the United States (excluding PV and CMC regulatory activities), at Otsuka s sole expense. The Product-related clinical and regulatory activities that Otsuka shall assume in the United States (which are included as part of the U.S.
Assumed Functions) and centralized regulatory activities (i.e. interactions with the EMA) in the European Union, and the anticipated timing for transition of such clinical and regulatory activities to Otsuka, are set forth in  Exhibit A-2  to
this Amendment, as  Exhibit A-2  may be modified in accordance with Paragraph 2.3(c) above. In the event that Otsuka desires to assume responsibility and authority for clinical and regulatory activities relating to Product in other countries in
the Territory (following transfer of Local Representative status where required), Otsuka shall inform BMS of which Product-related clinical and regulatory activities Otsuka desires to assume outside of the United States, the countries in which
Otsuka desires to assume such activities, and the anticipated timing for Otsuka s capability to assume such activities. In such event, the Parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts to agree on a plan for the transition of such
Product-related clinical and regulatory functions to be assumed by Otsuka on a country-by-country basis. During the period of such transition planning, and during the implementation of such transition to Otsuka of Product-related clinical and
regulatory activities (in accordance with such agreed transition plan), and until expiration of the Restated Agreement, on a country-by-country basis, BMS shall continue to provide Otsuka (at no cost to Otsuka) with reasonable access to and guidance
from BMS s (and/or its Affiliates ) personnel who have experience and knowledge relating to such transitioned Product-related clinical and regulatory functions. The Parties agree that nothing herein shall amend Paragraph 3 of Amendment
No. 8, which paragraph shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with its terms.       4.2   BMS s
Continuing Responsibilities . BMS shall continue to be responsible for, and shall perform at its sole expense in accordance with all applicable Product-related agreements between the Parties and/or their Affiliates, all Product-related activities
and functions in the Territory that are not expressly assumed by Otsuka in accordance with Paragraphs 2.3, 3.1(b), 3.3 and 4.1 above, including, without limitation, all Product promotion-related, medical affairs, clinical and regulatory functions in
the United States that are not assumed by and transitioned to Otsuka as set forth in  Exhibit A-1  and  Exhibit A-2  to this Amendment (as such exhibits may be modified in accordance with Paragraph 2.3(c) above). Without limiting the
foregoing, except for any functions that are assumed by Otsuka or a third party in accordance with Paragraph 3.3 above, BMS shall continue to be responsible for, and shall perform at its sole expense, Product distribution, manufacture, CMC
regulatory and PV activities and responsibilities, in each case, in accordance with the Restated Agreement, the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement, the Revised   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      12.

Pharmacovigilance Agreement Regarding Aripiprazole between the Parties (effective March 10, 2010, and as subsequently amended), and other applicable Product-related agreements between the
Parties and/or their Affiliates, including the Post-Termination Services Agreement and the Post-Termination Manufacturing and Supply Agreement.       4.3   Transfer of Countries to Reserved Territory . Any country in the Territory in which BMS has not yet commenced the sale of Product as of the Amendment Effective Date shall be automatically
and immediately deemed removed from the Territory and transferred to and included in the Reserved Territory as of the Amendment Effective Date. In addition, Vietnam (which, pursuant to Amendment No. 7 to the Restated Agreement, is excluded from
the Territory) shall be automatically and immediately deemed transferred to and included in the Reserved Territory as of the Amendment Effective Date. Upon the Amendment Effective Date, all of BMS s rights and obligations under the Restated
Agreement shall be deemed terminated with respect to each country transferred to the Reserved Territory in accordance with this Paragraph 4.4, and the provisions of Section 13.1 of the Restated Agreement shall apply to each such country (to the
extent applicable in such country). Without limiting the foregoing, BMS shall have no right to receive any share of Net Sales in any such country or any fee in connection with Net Sales in Vietnam, and BMS shall cooperate with Otsuka in connection
with the transition of rights and responsibilities to Otsuka in each such country that is transferred to the Reserved Territory. Transfer of a country as provided in this Paragraph 4.4 shall not limit or adversely affect any of BMS s rights
that accrued in such country prior to such removal, nor release BMS from any liability or obligation that accrued prior to such removal.       4.4   Post-Termination Services in the United States . The Parties entered into that certain Abilify Post-Termination Services Agreement dated as of April 4, 2009, pursuant to which BMS is
obligated to perform Post-Termination Services (as defined in the Post-Termination Services Agreement), including Product distribution and PV services, following expiration or termination of the Restated Agreement on a Region-by-Region (as defined
in the Post-Termination Services Agreement) or country-by-country basis. With respect to Post-Termination Services in the United States, Otsuka is contemplating assuming responsibility for all such Post-Termination Services except for Product
distribution in the United States, prior to or at the expiration of the U.S. Term. As soon as reasonably practicable after the Amendment Effective Date, the Parties shall discuss in good faith, without any obligation to enter into an agreement, an
amendment to the Post-Termination Services Agreement pursuant to which (i) Otsuka could assume all Post-Termination Services in the United States except for Product distribution; (ii) BMS would have no obligation after the U.S. Term to
perform any Post-Termination Services in the United States except for Product distribution; and (iii) the Parties would mutually agree on a fee to be paid by Otsuka to BMS for BMS to perform Product distribution services in the United States
after the U.S. Term.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      13.

ARTICLE V       
    COMMITTEE PROVISIONS         5.1   PDC and JCC .       (a)  Beginning (i) January 1,
2013, with respect to the United States and (ii) [*], with respect to the European Union, an Otsuka representative will be the sole Chair of the JCC and the PDC, and there shall be no Co-Chair of those committees. Beginning January 1,
2013, subject to Subparagraphs 5.1(b)(i) and (ii) below, Otsuka shall have final decision-making authority on all JCC matters relating to the Commercialization of Products (but not distribution, manufacturing, delivery, supply and packaging,
which functions remain under the operational responsibility of BMS) and all PDC matters with respect to the United States, including, without limitation, Product pricing, discounting and key messaging. Beginning [*], Otsuka shall have final
decision-making authority on all JCC matters relating to the Commercialization of Products (but not distribution, manufacturing, delivery, supply and packaging, which functions remain under the operational responsibility of BMS) with respect to the
European Union, except with respect to Product pricing, discounting and key messaging. Product pricing, discounting and key messaging in the European Union shall be determined by mutual agreement of the Parties, subject to applicable laws and
regulations, and further, with respect to key messaging, subject to Subparagraph 5.1(b)(iii) below. Notwithstanding the above provisions, neither the Otsuka Chair, the JCC, the PDC, nor any plan approved by the JCC may impose additional expenses or
obligations on BMS or its Affiliates beyond those specified in the Restated Agreement, the Shared Expense Budget or the Europe Commercial Resources Agreement, without the written consent of BMS. Further, at JCC meetings, Otsuka will be required to
discuss, and shall give BMS an opportunity to provide input regarding, the status of Product Commercialization activities in the United States and the European Union, including performance updates, forecasting information pertinent to BMS s
manufacturing obligations, and other information pertaining to BMS s ongoing obligations related to Product Commercialization in the United States and the European Union. In addition, the JCC shall oversee the progress of the transition and the
work of the Transition Committee.       (b)  Notwithstanding Paragraph 5.1(a) above, Otsuka s final decision-making
authority with respect to JCC matters in the United States shall be subject to the provisions of subparagraphs (i) and (ii) below; provided that, subject to such provisions, Product pricing and discounting decisions in the United States in
2013, 2014 and 2015 are within Otsuka s sole discretion. Decisions regarding Product key messaging in the European Union shall be subject to subparagraph (iii) below.   
   (i)  Commencing January 1, 2013, and continuing until [*], BMS and Otsuka shall share Discretionary Payer Discounts (as
defined below), up to [*] in 2013 and up to [*] in 2014, in proportion to the Parties  existing revenue tier splits as set forth in Amendment No 5. As used herein, the term   Discretionary Payer Discounts   means discounts
provided to commercial, Medicare (Part D) and Medicaid (supplemental rebate) payers to maintain or improve formulary access. Discretionary Payer Discounts excludes co-pay programs and non-discretionary discounts such as FSS, PHS, Medicaid (CPI
Penalty, ADAP, SDAP) and Medicare (coverage gap). In the event that Otsuka, without the consent of BMS, grants any Discretionary Payer Discounts in excess of [*] in 2013 and/or [*] in 2014 (  Excess Discounts  ), the Excess Discounts
shall be added to Net Sales at the end of 2013 and/or 2014, respectively (the sum of the actual Net Sales and the Excess Discounts will be referred to herein as   Adjusted Net Sales  ), and the Parties shall calculate the following:
(A) the amount of BMS s share of actual Net   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      14.

Sales (after deducting from Product gross sales all discounts, including Excess Discounts) utilizing the existing revenue sharing tiers set forth in Amendment No 5, (B) the amount of
BMS s share of Adjusted Net Sales utilizing the existing revenue sharing tiers set forth in Amendment No 5, and (C) the difference between the amounts calculated in accordance with clauses (A) and (B). After completing such
calculations, the amount of the difference calculated in accordance with clause (C) in the preceding sentence will be received by BMS as an increase in its share of Net Sales in the United States for the year in question;  provided  that,
if actual Net Sales exceed [*] in 2013 and/or [*] in 2014, the preceding adjustment mechanism shall no longer apply and BMS shall not be entitled to receive any such difference. The timing of the calculation and settlement will be addressed based on
the Parties  existing revenue settlement process. If Otsuka grants Discretionary Payer Discounts that exceed the Excess Discounts threshold(s) above [*] in 2013 and/or [*] in 2014), and if BMS consents to such increased Discretionary Payer
Discounts in the interest of Product Commercialization, then the Excess Discounts threshold(s) above shall be increased, and the calculations set forth above shall be adjusted, accordingly. Examples of the calculations under this Subparagraph
5.1(b)(i) are set forth in  Exhibit D  attached to this Amendment.       (ii)  All Product pricing decisions in the
United States for 2013, 2014 and 2015 are within Otsuka s sole discretion. However, subject to applicable laws and regulations, if: (1) commencing January 1, 2013, and continuing until [*], Otsuka decides to increase the wholesale
list price (WLP) of Product in the United States to a WLP that is less than [*] on an annual weighted-average basis, above the WLP in effect as of October 1, 2012;or (2) commencing [*], and continuing until [*], Otsuka decides to increase
the wholesale list price (WLP) of Product in the United States to a WLP that is less than [*], on an annual weighted-average basis, above the WLP in effect as of [*]; and, (3) in either case, (1) or (2), BMS does not consent to the lower
price percentage increase(s) that Otsuka decided to implement; then (4) the Parties shall calculate the following: (A) the amount of Net Sales that would have been achieved in the year in question if Otsuka had increased the price at least
by the percentage stated above (the   Predicted Net Sales  ), calculated as set forth below; (B) the amount of BMS s share of actual Net Sales utilizing the existing revenue sharing tiers set forth in Amendment No 5;
(C) the amount of BMS s share of Predicted Net Sales utilizing the existing revenue sharing tiers set forth in Amendment No 5; and (D) the difference between the amounts calculated in accordance with clauses (B) and (C). After
completing such calculations, the amount of the difference calculated in accordance with clause (D) in the preceding sentence will be received by BMS as an increase in its share of Net Sales in the United States for the year in question;
provided that, if Net Sales are in excess of [*] in 2013 and/or [*] in 2014, BMS shall not be entitled to receive any such difference. The timing of the calculation and settlement will be addressed based on the Parties  existing revenue
settlement process. If Otsuka decides to increase the WLP in 2013 or 2014 by less than the percentages set forth above, and if BMS consents to such lower percentage increases in the interest of Product Commercialization, then the above formula shall
not be implemented and BMS shall receive no additional share of Net Sales as provided above. The Parties agree that any increase of the WLP to be effective on or about January 1, 2013, shall not be greater than [*] above the WLP in effect as of
October 1, 2012.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      15.

For purposes of this Subparagraph 5.1(b)(ii), the Parties shall calculate Predicted Net Sales as follows:
(x) the Parties shall determine the difference between the above price percentage for a given year (i.e. [*] for 2013 and [*] for 2014) and the actual price percentage increase that Otsuka decided to implement in such year (on an annual
weighted-average basis); (y) the Parties will multiply (I) the sum of (A) [*] plus (B) [*] and (z) [*]. For example, if Otsuka decided to implement a [*] price increase (on an annual weighted-average basis) in 2013, the
Parties would multiply the [*] in 2013 by [*] to arrive at the [*], and the Parties would deduct the [*] from such [*] to arrive at [*].       (iii)  As of the Amendment Effective Date, the Parties are promoting Product, on a limited basis, for the [*] in the European Union (in addition to the [*]). The Parties hereby agree to an expanded
right for Otsuka, its Affiliates and third parties designated by Otsuka to promote Product for the [*] in the European Union as follows:      (A) By no later than [*], Otsuka will provide to BMS (through the Europe Alliance Committee) a business plan relating to the promotion of Product for the [*] in the European Union. Such plan shall
include, without limitation: (1) the anticipated timing for commencing the promotion of Product for the [*] in the European Union, on a country-by-country basis; (2) which entity (Otsuka, its Affiliates or a third party designated by
Otsuka) will promote Product for the [*], on a country-by-country basis; (3) key messaging; (4) target audience; (5) financial forecasts and supporting market research; (6) customer segmentation; and (7) relative support
between the [*] and [*] (such business plan, the [*]). BMS shall have the right to provide comments and feedback on such plan within a reasonable time after BMS receives the [*]. Otsuka shall consider in good faith all reasonable comments and
feedback from BMS.      (B) In the event Otsuka wishes to expand its existing rights, as of the Amendment Effective Date, to
promote Product (itself or through its Affiliate or a third party in accordance with Paragraph 3.1 above) for the [*] in the European Union at any time from [*] through [*], Otsuka shall obtain the written consent of BMS or its Affiliate, which
consent BMS or its Affiliate shall not unreasonably withhold or delay, and may grant at any Europe Alliance meeting or otherwise.      (C) On and after [*], with or without the consent of BMS or its Affiliates, Otsuka, its Affiliates and any third party designated by Otsuka (in accordance with Paragraph 3.1 above) may promote Product for
the [*] in the European Union using key messaging for [*] as Otsuka deems appropriate, subject to applicable laws and regulations; provided that, if Otsuka fails to provide BMS with a [*] with respect to a country in the European Union at [*] prior
to [*], Otsuka (and/or its Affiliates and any third party designated by Otsuka) may only commence promotion of Product for the [*] in such country [*] after Otsuka has provided a [*] with respect to such country to BMS, during which period, BMS may
provide comments and feedback on such [*] to Otsuka, which Otsuka shall consider in good faith. The Parties contemplate that Otsuka will have provided the [*] to BMS on or before [*], but this proviso addresses the unanticipated event that Otsuka
delays doing so.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      16.

(D) In the event sales representatives of Otsuka, its Affiliate or any third party promote
both Product and some other product simultaneously, such sales representatives shall not promote with negative messaging against Product during the term of the Restated Agreement in the European Union.   
  (E) For the avoidance of doubt, BMS and Otsuka shall continue to share Net Sales in the European Union in accordance with the Restated
Agreement (including the agreed allocation set forth therein). Further for the avoidance of doubt, the above rights of Otsuka are in addition to, and not in limitation of, Otsuka s existing rights, as of the Amendment Effective Date, to promote
Product in the European Union.       (c)  There shall be no change to JCC or PDC decision-making authority in the Rest of
Territory, and the terms of Section 5.1 of the Restated Agreement shall continue to apply to JCC responsibilities, governance and decision-making with respect to each country in the Rest of Territory during the term of the Restated Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in those countries in the Rest of Territory in which Otsuka requests to promote Product and BMS consents to the same in accordance with Paragraph 3.2 above, after BMS ceases to deploy sales representatives to actively
promote Product in such countries, committee decision-making with respect to such countries shall be the same as the committee decision-making with respect to the European Union on and after [*], as set forth in Paragraph 5(a) and Subparagraph
5(b)(iii) above,  mutatis mutandis , and neither the Otsuka Chair, the JCC, the PDC, nor any plan approved by the JCC may impose additional expenses or obligations on BMS or its Affiliates without the written consent of BMS.   
   (d)  To preserve the status quo, beginning on October 25, 2012, and continuing until December 31, 2012, with respect to
all JCC matters in the United States relating to the Commercialization of Products (but not distribution, manufacturing, delivery, supply and packaging, which functions remain under the operational responsibility of BMS) and all PDC matters in the
United States, and beginning on October 25, 2012, and continuing until [*], with respect to all JCC matters in the European Union relating to the Commercialization of Products (but not distribution, manufacturing, delivery, supply and
packaging, which functions remain under the operational responsibility of BMS), Otsuka and BMS shall have equal decision-making authority on all such JCC and PDC matters, and neither Party nor its Chair or Co-Chair of either such committee shall
have tie-breaking authority with respect to any such United States or European Union matters. In the event the JCC or the PDC Chair and Co-Chair are unable to reach agreement on any such JCC or PDC United States or European Union matters during the
applicable time period specified above, the unresolved matter shall be referred to and resolved as soon as reasonably possible by the President of Otsuka and the President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals, of BMS (or a designee thereof).   
   ARTICLE VI    
    MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS         6.1   Amendment . The Restated Agreement, the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement, the Europe Commercial Resources Agreement and any ancillary Product-related
  
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      17.

agreements between the Parties and/or their Affiliates are hereby deemed amended to the extent necessary to give full effect to the provisions of this Amendment; provided that Paragraphs 4 and 5
of Amendment No. 8 shall survive in accordance with its terms notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary.       6.2
  Governing Terms . Except as modified herein, the Restated Agreement, the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement, the Europe Commercial Resources Agreement and any ancillary Product-related agreements between the Parties and/or their
Affiliates shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with their terms, as previously amended. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing herein shall limit or modify any transfer or transition terms of the Restated Agreement, the U.S.
Co-Commercialization Agreement or any ancillary Product-related agreements between the Parties and/or their Affiliates, including, without limitation, Sections 4.5.2, 4.5.3, 4.5.5, 12.7 and Article 13 of the Restated Agreement and Paragraph 6 the
Post-Termination Services Agreement, all of which shall remain in full force and effect. To the extent that there are any inconsistencies between this Amendment and the Restated Agreement, the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement, the Europe
Commercial Resources Agreement, or any ancillary Product-related agreements between the Parties and/or their Affiliates, the terms of this Amendment shall supersede the Restated Agreement, the U.S. Co-Commercialization Agreement, the Europe
Commercial Resources Agreement, or such ancillary agreements, as applicable.       6.3   Counterparts; Electronic
Signature . This Amendment may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. Each Party may execute this Amendment by facsimile transmission or in
Adobe  Portable Document Format (PDF) sent by electronic mail. Facsimile or PDF signatures of authorized signatories of the Parties will be deemed to be original signatures, will be valid and binding, and, upon delivery, will constitute due
execution of this Agreement.       [Signature Page Follows]    
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      18.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Otsuka and BMS agree that this Amendment is effective as of the
Amendment Effective Date set forth above.       

OTSUKA PHARMACEUTICAL CO., LTD.  

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY   

By:     
      
    /s/ Taro Iwamoto, Ph.D.   

By:  
      
    /s/ Giovanni Caforio    

(Signature)  

(Signature)   

Name:  
      
  Taro Iwamoto, Ph.D.  

Name:  
      
  Giovanni Caforio   

Title:  
      
  President and Representative Director  

Title:  
      
  President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals   

By:  
      
    /s/ Tetsuya, Tachikawa   

(Signature)  

Name:  
      
  Tetsuya, Tachikawa, Ph,D.  

Title:  
      
  Operating Officer, Licensing  

*CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      19.

EXHIBIT A-1        FUNCTIONS TO BE TRANSITIONED TO OTSUKA BY JANUARY 1, 2013       The following
United States functions and activities (  U.S. Assumed Functions  ) shall be assumed by Otsuka and transitioned from BMS to Otsuka by January 1, 2013, all in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of this
Amendment, of which this  Exhibit A-1  is a part (subject to modification in accordance with Paragraph 2.3(c)):      [*] [CONTENT REDACTED]
  
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      20.

EXHIBIT A-2        FUNCTIONS TO BE TRANSITIONED TO OTSUKA BY APRIL [*], 2013 OR LATER IN 2013    
  The following United States functions and activities (  U.S. Assumed Functions  ) shall be assumed by Otsuka and
transitioned from BMS to Otsuka by April [*], 2013 or later in 2013 or 2014 (by the dates set forth below), all in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of this Amendment, of which this  Exhibit A-2  is a part (subject to
modification in accordance with Paragraph 2.3(c)):      [*] [CONTENT REDACTED]   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      21.

EXHIBIT B        DATA, RECORDS AND INFORMATION       The following is a list of data, records
and information related to Product or related to U.S. Assumed Functions. The following list is illustrative of such data, records and information that BMS must transfer or make available to Otsuka in accordance with Paragraph 2.3(f) and Paragraph
4.1 of this Amendment, and is not intended to limit the Product-related data, records and information that BMS must transfer or make available to Otsuka. The Parties acknowledge that in order to ensure a smooth transition of responsibilities to
Otsuka, the Parties shall mutually agree upon the scope and method of the transfer of the following materials, taking into account whether such materials exist, whether Otsuka already possesses such information, whether such materials contain
information of BMS that relates to products other than Product (in which case such information shall be redacted or otherwise segregated), whether such materials contain material that is governed by third-party agreements, compliance with applicable
law (e.g. privacy), and whether physical transfer of such records (as opposed to maintenance by BMS in accordance with its record retention policies, with Otsuka having access to such information upon reasonable request) is necessary or desirable.
The Parties also acknowledge that the following list may not be exhaustive.      [*][CONTENT REDACTED]   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      22.

EXHIBIT C        SHARED EXPENSE BUDGET        

Other Operational Expenses    
      
   2013   
      
   2014   
      
   2015    

Distribution   

Other Marketing   

R D   

Total Other Operational Expenses    

Cost Share % (BMS/Otsuka)    

Advertising   Promotion    

Cost Share $ (BMS/Otsuka)    

Notes  :       Other Marketing  includes [*]      R D includes [*]   
  [*]   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      23.

EXHIBIT D        EXAMPLES FOR SUBPARAGRAPH 5(b)(i) RELATING TO EXCESS DISCOUNTS       This
Exhibit sets forth hypothetical examples of the treatment of Excess Discounts as described in Subparagraph 5.1(b)(i) of this Amendment.       Example 1 (Hypothetical Scenario)        If :   

The total amount of Discretionary Payer Discounts (as defined in Subparagraph 5.1(b)(i)) in 2013 is [*]      

The actual Net Sales of Product in 2013, after deducting from gross sales all Discretionary Payer Discounts, including the Excess Discounts [*] and
other deductions from gross sales pursuant to the Restated Agreement, is [*]          then ,   

The Adjusted Net Sales (as defined in Subparagraph 5.1(b)(i)) is [*] (i.e. [*] + [*] of Excess Discounts);      

The amount of BMS s share of actual Net Sales, utilizing the existing revenue sharing tiers set forth in Amendment No. 5, is [*] (see chart
below);          

The amount of BMS s share of Adjusted Net Sales, utilizing the existing revenue sharing tiers set forth in Amendment No. 5, is [*] (see chart
below); and          

The amount of the difference received by BMS as an increase in its share of Net Sales in the United States, as provided in clause (C) of
Subparagraph 5(b)(i), is [*] (i.e., [*])          
 
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      24.

Example 2 (Hypothetical Scenario)    
   If :       

The actual total amount of Discretionary Payer Discounts (as defined in Subparagraph 5.1(b)(i)) in 2013 is [*]      

The actual Net Sales of Product in 2013, after deducting from gross sales all Discretionary Payer Discounts, including the Excess Discounts ([*]) and
other deductions from gross sales pursuant to the Restated Agreement, is [*]          then ,   
  Because actual Net Sales exceed [*], the Parties will not calculate Adjusted Net Sales or make the other calculations set forth in
Subparagraph 5.1(b)(i) and BMS will not retain any difference pursuant to clause (C) of Subparagraph 5(b)(i), notwithstanding that the Excess Discounts is [*] [*] in 2013.   
         *CONFIDENTIAL
TREATMENT REQUESTED. CONFIDENTIAL PORTION HAS BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      25.

</EX-10.EE>

<EX-10.OO>
 15
 d450621dex10oo.htm
 EX-10.OO

EX-10.oo 

Exhibit 10oo    

PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS AGREEMENT    
  Under the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company      2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan       2013-2015 Performance Share Units Award
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the  Company ) has granted you a Performance Share Units Award as set forth in the Grant Summary.
This award is subject in all respects to the terms, definitions and provisions of the 2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) adopted by the Company.      Award Date:      Performance Cycle Start Date: January 1, 2013   
  Please refer to the Grant Summary for the Target Number of Performance Share Units relating to the 2013-2015 performance cycle:
     2013 Performance Share Units (13-15 Cycle): One-third of total award   
  2014 Performance Share Units (13-15 Cycle): One-third of total award   
  2015 Performance Share Units (13-15 Cycle): One-third of total award   
  The year referenced for each of these three  tranches  is the  Performance Year  for that tranche.   
  The range at which Performance Share Units may be earned for varying performance will be set for each tranche by March 30 of the
Performance Year. The range for the 2013 Performance Share Units is included on Exhibit A attached hereto.      Minimum Performance
Condition: If you have been designated a Covered Employee (as defined in the Plan) for a Performance Year, then a required condition in order for you to earn Performance Share Units for the Performance Year will be that the Minimum Performance
Condition has been achieved (in addition to achievement of the Performance Goals). A separate Minimum Performance Condition will be set for each tranche by March 30 of the Performance Year. The Minimum Performance Condition for the 2013
Performance Share Units is included on Exhibit A attached hereto.      Performance Goal and Earning Date: A separate Performance
Goal will be set for each tranche by March 30 of the Performance Year, specifying the number of Performance Share Units that may be earned for specified levels of performance. The Earning Date will be December 31 of the Performance Year.
The Performance Goals for the 2013 Performance Share Units are included on Exhibit A attached hereto.      Vesting: Earned
Performance Share Units will vest on March 10, 2016, subject to earlier vesting at the times indicated in Sections 6 (including in connection with certain terminations following a Change in Control) and 8.   
  Settlement: Earned and vested Performance Share Units will be settled by delivery of one share of the Company s Common Stock, $0.10
par value per share ( Shares ), for each Performance Share Unit being settled. Dividend equivalents will accrue and be payable in connection with Performance Share Units at the time and to the extent that the underlying Performance Share
Unit becomes payable. Settlement shall occur at the time specified in Section 4 hereof.   
         1   

1.  PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS AWARD    
  The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the
 Committee ) has granted to you the opportunity to earn the 2013 Performance Share Units as designated herein subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth in this Agreement. In addition, the Committee hereby indicates its
intention to grant to you the opportunity to earn the 2014 Performance Share Units and the 2015 Performance Share Units for the 2013-2015 performance cycle and subject to this Agreement; such grants shall become effective only at such time as the
Committee has specified the Minimum Performance Condition (if the Minimum Performance Condition is applicable to you) and the Performance Goal for those Performance Share Units (by March 30 of the relevant Performance Year), except as otherwise
provided in this Section 1 and in Sections 6(a) and 6(b). The target number of each tranche of Performance Share Units and the kind of shares deliverable in settlement, the calculation of earnings per share as a Performance Goal, and other
terms and conditions of the Performance Share Units are subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 11 hereof and Plan Section 11(c). In the event of a Change in Control, you will become legally entitled to have the grant of
Performance Share Units specified hereunder become effective (i) for the Performance Year in effect at the date of the Change in Control, at the time of the Change in Control (if the grant was not previously effective) if you were employed by
the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate immediately before the Change in Control, and (ii) for any Performance Year beginning after the year in which the Change in Control occurred, at the beginning of such Performance Year if you remain so
employed at that time. In each case relating to Performance Share Units the grant of which is effective at or following a Change in Control, the Minimum Performance Condition and the Performance Goal for such Performance Share Units shall be
reasonably achievable and not more difficult to achieve in relation to the Company s budget for that Performance Year than the Minimum Performance Condition and the Performance Goal for any earlier Performance Year was in relation to the budget
for that earlier Performance Year.      2.  CONSIDERATION       As consideration for grant of 2013 Performance Share Units, you shall remain in the continuous employ of the Company and/or its subsidiaries or affiliates for at least one year from the Performance Cycle
Start Date or such lesser period as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion, and no Performance Share Units shall be payable until after the completion of such one year or lesser period of employment by you (subject to
Section 6(c)). No 2014 Performance Share Units or 2015 Performance Share Units shall be granted hereunder unless you have met the one-year continuous employment requirement specified in this Section 2, measured from the Performance Cycle
Start Date.      3.  MINIMUM PERFORMANCE CONDITION AND PERFORMANCE GOALS     
  The Minimum Performance Condition and the Performance Goals for the 2013 Performance Share Units are specified on the cover page of this
Agreement and Exhibit A hereto, and for the 2014 Performance Share Units and 2015 Performance Share Units shall be specified in writing in such manner as the Committee may determine.      4.  DETERMINATION OF PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS EARNED AND VESTED; FORFEITURES; SETTLEMENT       By March 10 of the year following each Performance Year, the Committee shall determine and certify the extent to which Performance Share Units have been earned on the basis of the Company s
actual performance in relation to (i) the established Minimum Performance Condition and (ii) the established Performance Goals for the Performance Share Units relating to that Performance Year, provided, however, that, in the case of
clause (ii), the Committee may exercise its discretion (reserved under Plan Sections 7(a) and 7(b)(v)) to reduce the amount of Performance Share Units deemed earned in   
         2   

its assessment of performance in relation to Performance Goals, or in light of other considerations the Committee deems relevant. The Committee shall certify these results in writing in
accordance with Plan Section 7(c), subject to any limitation under Section 7 hereof (if you are Disabled during the Performance Year in excess of 26 weeks). Any Performance Share Units that are not, based on the Committee s
determination, earned by performance in a Performance Year (or deemed to be earned in connection with a termination of employment under Sections 6 and 8 below), including Performance Share Units that had been potentially earnable by performance
in excess of the actual performance levels achieved, shall be canceled and forfeited.      Performance Share Units are subject to
vesting based on your service for periods which extend past the applicable Performance Year. The stated vesting date is set forth on the cover page hereof. If, before the stated vesting date, there occurs an event immediately after which you are not
an employee of the Company, its subsidiaries or an affiliate of the Company, you will become vested in Performance Share Units only to the extent provided in Section 6 or 8, and any Performance Share Units that have not been earned and vested
at or before such event and which cannot thereafter be earned and vested under Sections 6 or 8 shall be canceled and forfeited.      In certain termination events as specified below and in connection with a long-term Disability (as defined in Section 7), you will be entitled to vesting of a  Pro Rata Portion  of the
Performance Share Units earned or deemed earned hereunder. For purposes of this Agreement, in the case of a termination of employment, the Pro Rata Portion is calculated as the proportionate number of the total number of Performance Share Units
relating to a given Performance Year; provided, however, that the number of days you were employed shall be reduced by the number of days during such Performance Year in which you were Disabled in excess of 26 weeks since the commencement of the
Disability. For purposes of this Agreement, in the case of a Disability extending longer than 26 weeks, the Pro Rata Portion is calculated as the proportionate number of the total number of Performance Share Units relating to a given Performance
Year minus the number of days you were Disabled in excess of 26 weeks since the commencement of the Disability.      The number of
Performance Share Units earned or vested shall be rounded to the nearest whole Performance Share Unit, unless otherwise determined by the Company officers responsible for day-to-day administration of the Plan.   
  Performance Share Units that become vested while you remain employed by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate shall be settled
promptly upon vesting, but in any event within 60 days of the vesting date, by delivery of one Share for each Performance Share Unit being settled, unless validly deferred in accordance with deferral terms then authorized by the Committee (subject
to Plan Section 11(k)). Performance Share Units that become vested under Sections 6(a), 6(b), 6(c), 6(d) or 8 shall be settled at the times specified therein; provided, however, that settlement of Performance Share Units under
Sections 6(a), (b), (c) or (d) shall be subject to the applicable provisions of Plan Section 11(k). ( Note: Plan Section 11(k) could apply if settlement is triggered by a Change in Control or a termination following a
Change in Control ). Until Shares are delivered to you in settlement of Performance Share Units, you shall have none of the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to the Shares issuable in settlement of the Performance Share Units,
including the right to vote the shares and receive distributions other than dividends. (Your rights with respect to dividends are set forth in Section 11 below.) Shares of stock issuable in settlement of Performance Share Units shall be
delivered to you upon settlement in certificated form or in such other manner as the Company may reasonably determine.   
         3   

5.  NONTRANSFERABILITY OF PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS    
  During the period from the Award Date until the date all of the Performance Share Units have become vested and non-forfeitable and any
further period prior to settlement of your Performance Share Units, you may not sell, transfer, pledge or assign any of the Performance Share Units or your rights relating thereto. If you attempt to assign your rights under this Agreement in
violation of the provisions herein, the Company s obligation to settle Performance Share Units or otherwise make payments shall terminate.   
  6.  RETIREMENT AND OTHER TERMINATIONS (EXCLUDING DEATH)       (a)  Retirement.  In the event of your Retirement (as defined in the Plan) prior to settlement of Performance Share Units and after you have satisfied the one-year employment requirement of
Section 2, you will be deemed vested (i) in any Performance Share Units that relate to a Performance Year completed before your Retirement and which have been determined or thereafter are determined by the Committee to have been earned
under Section 4, and (ii) with respect to Performance Share Units relating to a Performance Year in progress at the date of your Retirement, in a Pro Rata Portion of the Performance Share Units you would have actually earned for that
Performance Year if you had continued to be employed through the date the Committee determines the earning of the Performance Share Units for that Performance Year under Section 4 (for this purpose, if the grant of Performance Share Units
relating to the Performance Year in progress at the date of your Retirement has not yet become effective, such grant shall be deemed to be effective immediately before the Retirement and shall have the same terms as applicable to participating
employees who remain employed). If you are employed in the United States (including in Puerto Rico), and you are not eligible for Retirement pursuant to Plan Sections 2(x)(i) and 2(x)(ii), you shall be entitled to the pro rata vesting
described in the preceding sentence only if you execute and do not revoke a release in favor of the Company and its predecessors, successors, affiliates, subsidiaries, directors and employees in a form satisfactory to the Company and, where deemed
applicable by the Company, a non-compete and/or a non-solicitation agreement; if you fail to execute or revoke the release or fail to execute the non-compete or non-solicitation agreement, you shall forfeit any Performance Share Units that are
unearned and unvested as of the date your employment terminates. Any Performance Share Units earned and vested under this Section 6(a) shall be settled at the earlier of (i) the date such Performance Share Units would have settled if you
had continued to be employed by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, (ii) in the event of a Change in Control, as to previously earned Performance Share Units, promptly upon the Change in Control and, in the case of any unearned
Performance Share Units (subject to Section 1), promptly following the date at which the Committee determines the extent to which such Performance Share Units have been earned (in each case subject to Section 6(e) below and Plan
Section 11(k)), or (iii) in the event of your death, in the year following the Performance Year in which your Retirement occurred (following the Committee s determination of the extent to which any remaining unearned Performance Share
Units have been earned) or, if your death occurred after that year, as promptly as practicable following your death. Following your Retirement, any Performance Share Units that have not been earned and vested and which thereafter will not be deemed
earned and vested under this Section 6(a) will be canceled and forfeited.      (b)  Termination by the Company Not For
Cause.  In the event of your Termination Not for Cause (as defined in Section 6(f)) by the Company and not during the Protected Period (as defined in the Plan), prior to settlement of Performance Share Units and after you have satisfied the
one-year employment requirement of Section 2, you will be deemed vested (i) in any Performance Share Units that relate to a Performance Year completed before such termination and which have been determined or thereafter are determined by
the Committee to have been earned under Section 4, and (ii) with respect to Performance Share Units relating to a Performance Year in progress at the date of such termination, in a Pro Rata Portion of the Performance Share Units you would
have actually earned for that Performance Year if you had continued to be employed through the date the Committee determines the earning of the Performance   
         4   

Share Units for that Performance Year under Section 4 (for this purpose, if the grant of Performance Share Units relating to the Performance Year in progress at the date of your Termination
Not for Cause has not yet become effective, such grant shall be deemed to be effective immediately before your termination and shall have the same terms as applicable to participating employees who remain employed). If you are employed in the United
States (including in Puerto Rico), and you are not eligible for Retirement pursuant to Plan Sections 2(x)(i) and 2(x)(ii), you shall be entitled to the pro rata vesting described in the preceding sentence only if you execute and do not
revoke a release in favor of the Company and its predecessors, successors, affiliates, subsidiaries, directors and employees in a form satisfactory to the Company and, where deemed applicable by the Company, a non-compete and/or a non-solicitation
agreement; if you fail to execute or revoke the release or fail to execute the non-compete or non-solicitation agreement, you shall forfeit any Performance Share Units that are unearned and unvested as of the date your employment terminates. Any
Performance Share Units earned and vested under this Section 6(b) shall be settled at the earlier of (i) the date such Performance Share Units would have settled if you had continued to be employed by the Company or a subsidiary or
affiliate, (ii) in the event of a Change in Control meeting the conditions of Section 6(e)(ii), as to previously earned Performance Share Units, promptly upon such Change in Control and, in the case of any unearned Performance Share Units
(subject to Section 1), promptly following the date at which the Committee determines the extent to which such Performance Share Units have been earned (in each case subject to Section 6(e) below and Plan Section 11(k)), or
(iii) in the event of your death, in the year following the Performance Year in which your Termination Not for Cause occurred (following the Committee s determination of the extent to which any remaining unearned Performance Share Units
have been earned) or, if your death occurred after that year, as promptly as practicable following your death. Following such Termination Not for Cause, any Performance Share Units that have not been earned and vested and which thereafter will not
be deemed earned and vested under this Section 6(b) will be canceled and forfeited.      (c)  Qualifying Termination
Following a Change in Control.  In the event that you have a Qualifying Termination as defined in Plan Section 9(c) during the Protected Period (as defined in the Plan) following a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), you will be
deemed vested (i) in any Performance Share Units that relate to a Performance Year completed before such termination and which have been determined or thereafter are determined by the Committee to have been earned under Section 4, and
(ii) with respect to Performance Share Units relating to a Performance Year in progress at the date of your Qualifying Termination (subject to Section 1, but including Performance Share Units otherwise not meeting the one-year requirement
of Section 2), in a Pro Rata Portion of the target number of Performance Share Units that could have been earned in the Performance Year. All of your earned and vested Performance Share Units shall be settled promptly (subject to
Section 6(e) below and Plan Section 11(k)); provided, however, any additional forfeiture conditions in the nature of a  clawback  or recoupment contained in Section 10 of this Agreement shall continue to apply to any
payment. Upon your Qualifying Termination, any Performance Share Units that have not been deemed earned and vested under this Section 6(c) will be canceled and forfeited.      (d)  Other Terminations.  If you cease to be an employee of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates for any reason other than Retirement, Termination Not for Cause, a Qualifying Termination
within the Protected Period following a Change in Control, or death, Performance Share Units granted herein that have not become both earned and vested shall be canceled and forfeited and you shall have no right to settlement of any portion of the
Performance Share Units; provided however, in the event of your voluntary termination after January 1, 2016, you will continue to vest (subject to the following sentence) in any Performance Share Units that relate to a Performance Year
completed before such termination and which have been determined or thereafter are determined by the Committee to have been earned under Section 4, and any Performance Share Units earned and vested under this proviso shall be settled at the
earlier of (i) the date such Performance Share Units would have settled if you had continued to be employed by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, (ii) in the event of a Change in Control meeting the conditions of
Section 6(e)(ii), as to previously earned Performance Share Units, promptly upon such   
         5   

Change in Control and, in the case of any unearned Performance Share Units (subject to Section 1), promptly following the date at which the Committee determines the extent to which such
Performance Share Units have been earned (in each case subject to Section 6(e) below and Plan Section 11(k)), or (iii) in the event of your death, as promptly as practicable following the date at which the Committee determines the
extent to which any remaining unearned Performance Share Units have been earned.      (e)  Special Distribution Rules to Comply
with Code Section 409A . The Performance Share Units constitute a  deferral of compensation  under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the  Code ), based on Internal Revenue Service regulations and guidance in
effect on the Award Date. As a result, the timing of settlement of your Performance Share Units will be subject to applicable limitations under Code Section 409A. Specifically, each tranche of Performance Share Units will be subject to Plan
Section 11(k), including the following restrictions on settlement:      (i) Settlement of the Performance Share Units under
Section 6(c) upon a Qualifying Termination will be subject to the requirement that the termination constitute a  separation from service  under Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(h), and subject to the six-month delay rule under Plan
Section 11(k)(i)(C)(2) if at the time of separation from service you are a  Specified Employee.       (ii)
Settlement of the Performance Share Units under Sections 6(a), 6(b) or 6(d) in the event of a Change in Control will occur only if an event relating to the Change in Control constitutes a change in ownership or effective control of the Company
or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company within the meaning of Treas. Reg.   1.409A-3(i)(5).      (f)  Definition of  Termination Not for Cause.   For purposes of this Section 6, a  Termination Not for Cause  means a Company-initiated termination for reason other than
willful misconduct, activity deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company, or disability, provided that you execute a general release and, where required by the Company, a non-solicitation and/or non-compete agreement with the Company.
     (g)  Determination of Termination Date.  For purposes of the Performance Share Units, your employment will be considered
terminated as of the date you are no longer actively providing services to the Company or one of its subsidiaries or affiliates (regardless of the reason for such termination and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment
laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), and unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement or determined by the Company, your right to vest in the Performance Share Units under the
Plan, if any, will terminate as of such date and will not be extended by any notice period (e.g., your period of service would not include any contractual notice period or any period of  garden leave  or similar period mandated under
employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing services for purposes of your
Performance Share Units (including whether you may still be considered to be providing services while on a leave of absence).      7.
 DISABILITY OF PARTICIPANT       For purposes of this Agreement,  Disability  or  Disabled  shall mean
qualifying for and receiving payments under a disability plan of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate either in the United States or in a jurisdiction outside of the United States, and in jurisdictions outside of the United States shall also
include qualifying for and receiving payments under a mandatory or universal disability plan or program managed or maintained by the government. If you become Disabled, you will not be deemed to have terminated employment for the period during
which, under the applicable Disability pay plan of the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, you are deemed to be employed and continue to receive   
         6   

Disability payments. Upon the cessation of payments under such Disability pay plan, (i) if you return to employment status with the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, you will not be
deemed to have terminated employment, and (ii) if you do not return to such employment status, you will be deemed to have terminated employment at the date of cessation of such Disability payments, with such termination treated for purposes of
the Performance Share Units as a Retirement, death, or voluntary termination based on your circumstances at the time of such termination. If you have been Disabled for a period in excess of 26 weeks in the aggregate during one or more
Performance Years, for each affected Performance Year you will earn only a Pro Rata Portion of the Performance Share Units you otherwise would have earned in respect of such a Performance Year.   
  8.  DEATH OF PARTICIPANT    
  In the event of your death while employed by the Company or a subsidiary and prior to settlement of Performance Share Units but after you
have satisfied the one-year employment requirement of Section 2, you will be deemed vested (i) in any Performance Share Units that relate to a Performance Year completed before your death and which have been determined or thereafter are
determined by the Committee to have been earned under Section 4, and (ii) with respect to Performance Share Units relating to a Performance Year in progress at the date of your death, in a Pro Rata Portion of the Performance Share Units
you would have actually earned for that Performance Year if you had continued to be employed through the date the Committee determines the earning of the Performance Share Units for that Performance Year under Section 4. In this case, your
beneficiary shall be entitled to settlement of any of your earned and vested Performance Share Units referred to in clause (i) by the later of the end of the calendar year in which your death occurred or 60 days after your death, and to your
earned and vested Performance Share Units referred to in clause (ii) in the year following your year of death as promptly as practicable following the determination of the number of Performance Share Units earned under clause (ii) above.
In the case of your death, any Performance Share Units that have not been earned and vested and thereafter will not be deemed earned and vested under this Section 8 will be canceled and forfeited.   
  9.  RESPONSIBILITY FOR TAXES       You acknowledge that, regardless of any action taken by the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate or your employer ( Employer ), the ultimate liability for all income tax (including federal,
state, local and non-U.S. taxes), social security, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you or deemed by the Company or the Employer to be
an appropriate charge to you even if legally applicable to the Company or the Employer ( Tax-Related Items ), is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further
acknowledge that the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate and/or the Employer: (a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Performance Share Units, including
the grant of the Performance Share Units, the vesting of Performance Share Units, the conversion of the Performance Share Units into Shares or the receipt of an equivalent cash payment, the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired at settlement and
the receipt of any dividends and/or dividend equivalents; and, (b) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Performance Share Units to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any
particular tax result. Further, if you are subject to Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction between the Award Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as
applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.      Prior to the relevant
taxable event, you agree to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items. In this regard, by your acceptance of the Performance Share Units, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or
their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following:       

(a)  
  withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer; or     
         7   

(b)  
  withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon settlement of the Performance Share Units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale
arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent); or         

(c)  
  withholding in Shares to be issued upon settlement of the Performance Share Units; provided, however, if you are a Section 16 officer of the Company under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, then the Company will withhold Shares upon the relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, unless the use of such withholding method is problematic under applicable tax or securities law or
has materially adverse accounting consequences, in which case, the obligation for Tax-Related Items may be satisfied by one or a combination of methods (a) and (b) above.     
  Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum
statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates, in which case you will receive a refund of any over-withheld amount in cash and will have no entitlement to the Share equivalent. If the
obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding in Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested Performance Share Units, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are
held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items.      Finally, you agree to pay to the Company or the Employer,
including through withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer, any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your
participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of Shares, if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the
Tax-Related Items.      Notwithstanding anything in this Section 9 to the contrary, to avoid a prohibited acceleration under
Code Section 409A, if Shares subject to the Performance Share Units will be sold on your behalf (or withheld) to satisfy any Tax-Related Items arising prior to the date of settlement of the Performance Share Units for any portion of the
Performance Share Units that is considered nonqualified deferred compensation subject to Code Section 409A, then the number of shares sold on your behalf (or withheld) shall not exceed the number of shares that equals the liability for
Tax-Related Items.      10.  FORFEITURE IN THE EVENT OF COMPETITION AND/OR SOLICITATION OR OTHER ACTS    
  You acknowledge that your continued employment with the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates and this grant of Performance Share
Units are sufficient consideration for this Agreement, including, without limitation, the restrictions imposed upon you by this Section 10.       

(a)  
  By accepting the Performance Share Units granted hereby, you expressly agree and covenant that during the Restricted Period (as defined below), you shall not, without
the prior consent of the Company, directly or indirectly:         

(i)  
  own or have any financial interest in a Competitive Business (as defined below), except that nothing in this clause shall prevent you from owning one percent or less of
the outstanding securities of any entity whose securities are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange (including NASDAQ) or an equivalent foreign exchange;     
         8   

(ii)  
  be actively connected with a Competitive Business by managing, operating, controlling, being an employee or consultant (or accepting an offer to be an employee or
consultant) or otherwise advising or assisting a Competitive Business in such a way that such connection might result in an increase in value or worth of any product, technology or service, that competes with any product, technology or service upon
which you worked or about which you became familiar as a result of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate. You may, however, be actively connected with a Competitive Business after your employment with the Company or a
subsidiary terminates for any reason, so long as your connection to the business does not involve any product, technology or service, that competes with any product, technology or service upon which you worked or about which you became familiar as a
result of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary and the Company is provided written assurances of this fact from the Competing Company prior to your beginning such connection;     

(iii)  
  take any action that might divert any opportunity from the Company or any of its affiliates, successors or assigns (the  Related Parties ) that is within the
scope of the present or future operations or business of any Related Parties;         

(iv)  
  employ, solicit for employment, advise or recommend to any other person that they employ or solicit for employment or form an association with any person who is
employed by the Company or its Related Parties or who has been employed by the Company or its Related Parties within one year of the date your employment with the Company or a subsidiary ceased for any reason whatsoever;     

(v)  
  contact, call upon or solicit any customer of the Company, or attempt to divert or take away from the Company the business of any of its customers;

(vi)  
  contact, call upon or solicit any prospective customer of the Company that you became aware of or were introduced to in the course of your duties for the Company or its
Related Parties, or otherwise divert or take away from the Company the business of any prospective customer of the Company; or         

(vii)  
  engage in any activity that is harmful to the interests of the Company, including, without limitation, any conduct during the term of your employment that violates the
Company s Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics, securities trading policy and other policies.         

(b)  
   Forfeiture . You agree and covenant that, if the Company determines that you have violated any provisions of Section 10(a) above during the Restricted
Period, then:         

(i)  
  any portion of the Performance Share Units that have not been settled or paid to you as of the date of such determination shall be immediately canceled and forfeited;

(ii)  
  you shall automatically forfeit any rights you may have with respect to the Performance Share Units as of the date of such determination;     

(iii)  
  if any Performance Share Units have become vested within the twelve-month period immediately preceding a violation of Section 10(a) above (or following the date of
any such violation), upon the Company s demand, you shall immediately deliver to it a certificate or certificates for Shares equal to the number of Shares delivered to you in settlement of such vested Performance Share Units if such delivery
was made in Shares or you shall pay cash equal to the value of cash paid to you in settlement of such vested Performance Share Units if such payment was made in cash; and     
         9   

(iv)  
  the foregoing remedies set forth in this Section 10(b) shall not be the Company s exclusive remedies. The Company reserves all other rights and remedies
available to it at law or in equity.         

(c)  
   Company Policy . You agree that the Company may recover any incentive-based compensation received by you under this Agreement if such recovery is pursuant to a
clawback or recoupment policy approved by the Committee.         

(d)  
   Definitions . For purposes of this Section 10, the following definitions shall apply:     

(i)  
  The Company directly advertises and solicits business from customers wherever they may be found and its business is thus worldwide in scope. Therefore,
 Competitive Business  means any person or entity that engages in any business activity that competes with the Company s business in any way, in any geographic area in which the Company engages in business, including, without
limitation, any state in the United States in which the Company sells or offers to sell its products from time to time.         

(ii)  
   Restricted Period  means the period during which you are employed by the Company or its subsidiaries and affiliates and twelve months following the date that
you no longer are employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates for any reason whatsoever.         

(e)  
   Severability . You acknowledge and agree that the period, scope and geographic areas of restriction imposed upon you by the provisions of Section 10 are fair
and reasonable and are reasonably required for the protection of the Company. In the event that any part of this Agreement, including, without limitation, Section 10, is held to be unenforceable or invalid, the remaining parts of this Agreement
and Section 10 shall nevertheless continue to be valid and enforceable as though the invalid portions were not a part of this Agreement. If any one of the provisions in Section 10 is held to be excessively broad as to period, scope and
geographic areas, any such provision shall be construed by limiting it to the extent necessary to be enforceable under applicable law.         

(f)  
   Additional Remedies . You acknowledge that breach by you of this Agreement would cause irreparable harm to the Company and that in the event of such breach, the
Company shall have, in addition to monetary damages and other remedies at law, the right to an injunction, specific performance and other equitable relief to prevent violations of your obligations hereunder.     
  11.  DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS AND OTHER ADJUSTMENTS        

(a)  
   Crediting of Dividend Equivalents . Subject to this Section 11, dividend equivalents shall be credited on your Performance Share Units (other than
Performance Share Units that, at the relevant record date, previously have been settled or forfeited) as follows, except that the Committee may specify an alternative treatment from that specified in (i), (ii), or (iii) below for any dividend
or distribution:         

(i)  
     Cash Dividends . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Shares in the form of cash, then a number of additional
Performance Share Units shall be credited to you as of the payment date for such dividend or distribution equal to (A) the amount of such dividend on each outstanding Share, multiplied by (B) the number of Performance Share Units credited
to you as of the record date for such dividend or distribution, divided by (C) the Fair Market Value of a Share at such payment date. At the time the underlying      
         10   

Performance Share Units become payable, the Company has the discretion to pay any accrued dividend equivalents either in cash or in Shares. You will be eligible to receive dividend equivalents on
any Performance Share Units credited to you under this Section 11(a)(i). For purposes of determining the number of Performance Share Units  credited  to you as of the record date of a dividend or distribution in this Section 11,
a Performance Share Unit shall not be deemed  credited  until a separate Performance Goal has been set by the Committee for such Performance Share Unit.     

(ii)  
   Non-Share Dividends . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Shares in the form of property other than shares, then a number of additional
Performance Share Units shall be credited to you as of the payment date for such dividend or distribution equal to (A) the number of Performance Share Units credited to you as of the record date for such dividend or distribution, multiplied by
(B) the Fair Market Value of such property actually paid as a dividend or distribution on each outstanding Share at such payment date, divided by (C) the Fair Market Value of a share at such payment date. You will be eligible to receive
dividend equivalents on any Performance Share Units credited to you under this Section 11(a)(ii).         

(iii)  
   Common Stock Dividends and Splits . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Shares in the form of additional shares, or there occurs a
forward split of Shares, then a number of additional Performance Share Units shall be credited to you as of the payment date for such dividend or distribution or forward split equal to (A) the number of Performance Share Units credited to you
as of the record date for such dividend or distribution or split, multiplied by (B) the number of additional shares actually paid as a dividend or distribution or issued in such split in respect of each outstanding Share. You will be eligible
to receive dividend equivalents on any Performance Share Units credited to you under this Section 11(a)(iii).         

(b)  
   Adjustment of Dividend Equivalents . If any Performance Share Unit is forfeited for any reason, including as a result of the failure to attain the Minimum
Performance Condition or the failure to attain the Performance Goals at least at Threshold, any dividend or distribution attributable to such Performance Share Unit, whether in the form of cash or additional Performance Share Units, shall be
forfeited on the date on which the underlying Performance Share Unit is forfeited. If any Performance Share Units are paid at greater or smaller than 100% of Target, the amount of dividend equivalents (if any) credited on such Performance Share
Units, whether in the form of cash or additional Performance Share Units, shall be increased or decreased proportionately to reflect the payout percentage on the underlying Performance Share Units.     

(c)  
   Payment of Dividend Equivalents . Any cash payable under this Section 11 shall be included as part of your regular payroll payment as soon as
administratively practicable after the settlement date for the underlying Performance Share Units. Any Performance Share Units payable under this Section 11 shall be settled on the settlement date for the underlying Performance Share Unit. When
the dividend equivalents you receive under this Section 11, if any, become payable to you, they will be compensation (wages) for tax purposes and, if you are a U.S. taxpayer, will be included on your W-2 form. The Company will be required to
withhold applicable taxes on such dividend equivalents. The Company may deduct such taxes in the manner set forth in Section 9 hereof.         

(d)  
     Other Adjustments .   The target number of Performance Share Units, the kind of securities deliverable in settlement of Performance Share
Units, and any performance measure based on per share results shall be appropriately adjusted in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of your rights with respect to the Performance Share Units upon the occurrence of an event referred to in
     
         11   

Plan Section 11(c). In furtherance of the foregoing, in the event of an equity restructuring, as defined in FASB ASC Topic 718, which affects the Shares, you shall have a legal right to an
adjustment to your Performance Share Units which shall preserve without enlarging the value of the Performance Share Units, with the manner of such adjustment to be determined by the Committee in its discretion. Any Performance Share Units or
related rights which directly or indirectly result from an adjustment to a Performance Share Unit hereunder shall be subject to the same risk of forfeiture and other conditions as apply to the granted Performance Share Unit and will be settled at
the same time as the granted Performance Share Unit.        12.  EFFECT ON OTHER BENEFITS    
  In no event shall the value, at any time, of the Performance Share Units or any other payment or right to payment under this Agreement be
included as compensation or earnings for purposes of any other compensation, retirement, or benefit plan offered to employees of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates unless otherwise specifically provided for in such plan. Performance Share
Units and the income and value of the same are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes including, but not limited to, calculation of any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy or end-of-service payments,
bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits, or similar payments.      13.  ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NATURE OF PLAN AND PERFORMANCE
SHARE UNITS       In accepting the Performance Share Units, you acknowledge, understand and agree that:   
  (a) The Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or
terminated by the Company at any time, to the extent permitted by the Plan;      (b) The award of Performance Share Units is
voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of Performance Share Units, or benefits in lieu of Performance Share Units even if Performance Share Units have been awarded in the past;
     (c) All decisions with respect to future awards of Performance Share Units or other awards, if any, will be at the sole
discretion of the Company;      (d) Your participation in the Plan is voluntary;   
  (e) The Performance Share Units and the Shares subject to the Performance Share Units are not intended to replace any pension rights or
compensation;      (f) The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with
certainty;      (g) No claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the forfeiture of Performance Share Units,
resulting from termination of your employment or other service relationship with the Company, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment
laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any) and in consideration of the grant of the Performance Share Units to which you are otherwise not entitled, you irrevocably agree never to institute any
claim against the Company, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or the Employer, waive your ability, if any, to bring such claim, and release the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate and/or the Employer from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the
foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by participating in the Plan, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agree to execute any and all documents necessary to request
dismissal or withdrawal of such claim;   
         12   

(h) Unless otherwise provided in the Plan or by the Company in its discretion, the
Performance Share Units and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have the Performance Share Units or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted
for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the shares of the Company; and      (i) The following provisions apply
only if you are providing services outside the United States: (i) the award and the Shares subject to the Performance Share Units are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose; and (ii) you acknowledge and agree
that neither the Company, the Employer nor any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between your local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the Performance
Share Units or of any amounts due to you pursuant to the settlement of the Performance Share Units or the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired upon settlement.      14.  NO ADVICE REGARDING GRANT       The Company is not providing any tax, legal
or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your participation in the Plan or your acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. You are hereby advised to consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial
advisors regarding your participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.      15.  RIGHT TO CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT 
     Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any
subsidiary or affiliate or any specific position or level of employment with the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate or affect in any way the right of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate to terminate your employment without prior notice at
any time for any reason or no reason.      16.  ADMINISTRATION       The Committee shall have full authority and discretion, subject only to the express terms of the Plan, to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this
Agreement, and all such Committee determinations shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate, you, and all interested parties. Any provision for distribution in settlement of your Performance Share Units and
other obligations hereunder shall be by means of bookkeeping entries on the books of the Company and shall not create in you or any beneficiary any right to, or claim against any, specific assets of the Company, nor result in the creation of any
trust or escrow account for you or any beneficiary. You and any of your beneficiaries entitled to any settlement or other payment hereunder shall be a general creditor of the Company.      17.  DEEMED ACCEPTANCE       You are required to accept the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement prior to the end of the first Performance Year in order for you to receive the Award granted to you hereunder. If you wish to decline this Award, you must reject this Agreement prior to the end of the first Performance
Year. For your benefit, if you have not rejected the Agreement prior to the end of the first Performance Year, you will be deemed to have automatically accepted this Award and all the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. Deemed
acceptance will allow the shares to be released to you in a timely manner.   
         13   

18.  AMENDMENT TO PLAN       This Agreement shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, as amended from time to time, except that, subject to Sections 25 and 28 below, Performance Share Units which are the subject of this
Agreement may not be materially adversely affected by any amendment or termination of the Plan approved after the Award Date without your written consent.      19.  SEVERABILITY AND VALIDITY       The various provisions of this Agreement
are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.   
  20.  GOVERNING LAW, JURISDICTION AND VENUE       This Agreement and Award grant shall be governed by the substantive laws (but not the choice of law rules) of the State of New York. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises under this
Performance Share Unit grant or Agreement, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of New York, agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of New York, New York, or the federal courts for the United
States for the Southern District of New York, and no other courts where this Performance Share Unit grant is made and/or performed.      21.
 SUCCESSORS       This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors, assigns, and heirs of the
respective parties.      22.  DATA PRIVACY       You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, your
Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.      You understand that the Company, any subsidiary and/or your Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of
birth, social security number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all Performance Share Units or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled,
vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ( Data ).      You understand that Data may be transferred to Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which assists in the implementation,
administration and management of the Plan. You understand that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country (e.g. the United States) may have different data privacy laws and
protections than your country. You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You
authorize the Company, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney and other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data,
in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom
the Shares received upon   
         14   

vesting of the Performance Share Units may be deposited. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You
understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in
any case without cost, by contacting your local human resources representative. Further, you understand that you are providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis. If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your
employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you Performance Share Units or other equity
awards or administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal
of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.      23.  ELECTRONIC DELIVERY AND ACCEPTANCE 
     The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the
Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic systems established and maintained by the Company or a third-party designated by the
Company.      24.  LANGUAGE       If you have received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English
version, the English version will control.      25.  COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS    
  Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan or this Agreement, unless there is an available exemption from any registration,
qualification or other legal requirement applicable to the Shares, you understand that the Company will not be obligated to issue any Shares pursuant to the vesting and settlement of the Performance Share Units, if the issuance of such Shares shall
constitute a violation by you or the Company of any provision of law or regulation of any governmental authority. Further, you agree that the Company shall have unilateral authority to amend the Plan and the Agreement without your consent to the
extent necessary to comply with securities or other laws applicable to issuance of shares. Any determination by the Company in this regard shall be final, binding and conclusive.      26.  ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND NO ORAL MODIFICATION OR WAIVER       This Agreement
contains the entire understanding of the parties. This Agreement shall not be modified or amended except in writing duly signed by the parties except that the Company may adopt a modification or amendment to the Agreement that is not materially
adverse to you in writing signed only by the Company. Any waiver of any right or failure to perform under this Agreement shall be in writing signed by the party granting the waiver and shall not be deemed a waiver of any subsequent failure to
perform.      27.  ADDENDUM       Your Performance Share Units shall be subject to any special provisions set forth in the Addendum to this Agreement for your country, if any. If you relocate to one of the countries included in the
Addendum during any Performance Year, the special provisions for such country shall apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such provisions is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons. The
Addendum, if any, constitutes part of this Agreement.   
         15   

28.  IMPOSITION OF OTHER REQUIREMENTS    
  The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Performance Share Units and on any
Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the
foregoing.        

For the Company   

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company   

By:    

I have read this Agreement in its entirety. I understand that this Award has been granted to provide a means for me
to acquire and/or expand an ownership position in Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. I acknowledge and agree that sales of shares will be subject to the Company s policies regulating trading by employees. In accepting this Award, I hereby agree that
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, or such other vendor as the Company may choose to administer the Plan, may provide the Company with any and all account information for the administration of this Award.   
  I hereby agree to all the terms, restrictions and conditions set forth in the Agreement.   
         16   

Exhibit A       PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS AGREEMENT       Under the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan       2013-2015 Performance Share Units Award        2013 Minimum Performance
Condition and Performance Goals       If Participant has been designated a Covered Employee (as defined in the Plan) for the 2013 Performance
Year, then a required condition in order for Participant to earn 2013 Performance Share Units in the manner set forth below will be that the Company s Non-GAAP Pretax Earnings for the 2013 fiscal year shall equal or exceed
$[              ] (the  Minimum Performance Condition ). If Participant has not been designated a Covered Employee for the 2013 Performance Year, then Participant shall earn
2013 Performance Share Units in the manner set forth below.      The number of 2013 Performance Share Units earned by Participant shall be
determined as of December 31, 2013 (the  Earning Date ), based on the Company s 2013 Net Sales Performance (net of foreign exchange), 2013 Non-GAAP Diluted EPS Performance, and 2013 Adjusted Net Cash Flow from Operating
Activities Performance, each as defined below, determined based on the following grid:       

Performance Measure   
      
  Threshold  
      
  Target  
      
  Maximum   

2013 Net Sales, net of fx ($=MM)   

2013 Non-GAAP Diluted EPS   

2013 Adjusted Net Cash Flow from Operating Activities ($=MM)   

Participant shall earn 32.50% of the target number of 2013 Performance Share Units for  Threshold Performance, 
100% of the target number of 2013 Performance Share Units for  Target Performance,  and 167.50% of the target number of 2013 Performance Share Units for  Maximum Performance.  For this purpose, 2013 Net Sales Performance and 2013
Adjusted Net Cash Flow from Operating Activities Performance are weighted 25% each, and 2013 Non-GAAP Diluted EPS Performance is weighted 50%, so the level of earning of 2013 Performance Share Units shall be determined on a weighted-average basis.
     Determinations of the Committee regarding 2013 Non-GAAP Pretax Earnings, 2013 Net Sales Performance, 2013 Non-GAAP Diluted EPS Performance,
and 2013 Adjusted Net Cash Flow from Operating Activities Performance, and the resulting 2013 Performance Share Units earned, and related matters, will be final and binding on Participant. In making its determinations with respect to 2013 Net Sales
Performance, 2013 Non-GAAP Diluted EPS Performance, and 2013 Adjusted Net Cash Flow from Operating Activities Performance, the Committee may exercise its discretion (reserved under Plan Sections 7(a) and 7(b)(v)) to reduce the amount of
Performance Share Units deemed earned, in its sole discretion.   
         A-1

Addendum        BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY        SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR PERFORMANCE SHARE
UNITS IN CERTAIN COUNTRIES       This Addendum includes special country-specific terms that apply to residents in the countries listed below.
This Addendum is part of the Agreement. Unless otherwise provided below, capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Agreement.   
  This Addendum also includes information of which you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Plan. For example, certain individual
exchange control reporting requirements may apply upon vesting of the Performance Share Units and/or sale of Shares. The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws in effect in the respective countries as of
January 2013 and is provided for informational purposes. Such laws are often complex and change frequently, and results may be different based on the particular facts and circumstances. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you do
not rely on the information noted herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at the time your Performance Share Units vest or are settled, or you
sell Shares acquired under the Plan.      In addition, the information is general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and
the Company is not in a position to assure you of any particular result. Accordingly, you are advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation.   
  Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you currently are working, transfer employment after the Performance
Share Units are granted to you, or are considered a resident of another country for local law purposes, the information contained herein for the country you are working in at the time of grant may not be applicable to you, and the Company shall, in
its discretion, determine to what extent the terms and conditions contained herein shall be applicable to you. If you transfer residency and/or employment to another country or are considered a resident of another country listed in the Addendum
after the Performance Share Units are granted to you, the terms and/or information contained for that new country (rather than the original grant country) may be applicable to you.   
   Algeria        Exchange
Control Information.  Proceeds from the sale of Shares and the receipt of any dividends must be repatriated to Algeria.   
   Argentina        Securities
Law Information.  Neither the Performance Share Units nor the underlying Shares are publicly offered or listed on any stock exchange in Argentina. The offer is private and not subject to the supervision of any Argentine governmental authority.
      Exchange Control Information.  In the event that you transfer proceeds from the sale of Shares or any cash dividends paid on such
shares into Argentina within 10 days of receipt ( i.e. , if the proceeds have not been held in the offshore bank or brokerage account for at least 10 days prior to transfer), you will be required to deposit 30% of any proceeds in a
non-interest bearing deposit account for a 365 day holding period. In any event, the Argentine bank handling the transaction may request certain documentation in connection with your request to transfer proceeds into Argentina, including evidence of
the sale and proof that no funds were remitted out of Argentina to acquire the Shares. If the bank determines that the 10-day rule or any other rule or regulation promulgated by the Argentine Central Bank has not been satisfied, it may require that
30% of the proceeds be placed in a non-interest bearing dollar denominated mandatory   
         Addendum-1

deposit account for a holding period of 365 days. Please note that exchange control regulations in Argentina are subject to frequent change. You are solely responsible for complying with any
exchange control laws that may apply to you as a result of participating in the Plan and/or the transfer of funds in connection with the award. You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding any exchange control obligations that you
may have.       Australia        Securities Law Information.  If you acquire Shares pursuant to your Performance Share Units and you offer your Shares for sale to a person or entity resident in Australia, your offer may be subject
to disclosure requirements under Australian law. You should obtain legal advice on your disclosure obligations prior to making any such offer.   
   Exchange Control Information.  Exchange control reporting is required for cash transactions exceeding AUD10,000 and for international fund
transfers. The Australian bank assisting with the transaction will file the report for you. If there is no Australian bank involved in the transfer, you will have to file the report.   
   Austria        Exchange
Control Information . If you hold Shares purchased under the Plan outside of Austria (even if you hold them outside of Austria at a branch of an Austrian bank), you will be required to submit a report to the Austrian National Bank as follows:
(i) on a quarterly basis if the value of the Shares as of any given quarter exceeds  30,000,000; and (ii) on an annual basis if the value of the Shares as of December 31 exceeds  5,000,000.   
  When Shares are sold, there may be exchange control obligations if the cash proceeds from the sale are held outside Austria. If the transaction volume of
all your cash accounts abroad exceeds  3,000,000, the movements and the balance of all accounts must be reported monthly, as of the last day of the month, on or before the fifteenth day of the following month. If the transaction value of all
cash accounts abroad is less than  3,000,000, no ongoing reporting requirements apply.       Belgium    
   Tax Reporting Information.  If you are a Belgian resident, you are required to report any security or bank account (including brokerage accounts)
you maintain outside of Belgium on your annual tax return.       Brazil    
   Compliance with Laws.  By accepting the Performance Share Units, you agree that you will comply with Brazilian law when you vest in the Performance
Share Units and sell Shares. You also agree to report and pay any and all taxes associated with the vesting of the Performance Share Units, the sale of the Shares acquired pursuant to the Plan and the receipt of any dividends or Dividend
Equivalents.       Exchange Control Information.  You must prepare and submit a declaration of assets and rights held outside of Brazil to
the Central Bank on an annual basis if you hold assets or rights valued at more than US$100,000. The assets and rights that must be reported include Shares.       Canada        Settlement of Performance Share Units.  Notwithstanding any terms or
conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, Performance Share Units will be settled in Shares only, not cash.   
         Addendum-2

Securities Law Information.  You acknowledge and agree that you will only sell Shares acquired through
participation in the Plan outside of Canada through the facilities of a stock exchange on which the Shares are listed. Currently, the Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.       Termination of Employment.  This provision supplements Section 6(g) of the Agreement:   
  In the event of your termination of employment or other service relationship (for any reason whatsoever, whether or not later found to be invalid or in
breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), your right to vest in the Performance Share Units will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of (1) the
date you are no longer actively providing service or, (2) the date you receive notice of termination of employment from the Employer, regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under applicable laws
(including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively employed for purposes of the Performance Share Units.   
   The following provisions apply if you are resident in Quebec:        Language Acknowledgment       The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this
Agreement, including this Addendum, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be provided to them in English.   
   Consentement relatif   la langue utilis e. Les parties reconnaissent avoir express ment souhait  que la convention
( Agreement ) ainsi que cette Annexe, ainsi que tous les documents, avis et proc dures judiciares,  x cut s, donn s ou intent s en vertu de, ou li s directement ou indirectement  
la pr sente convention, soient r dig s en langue anglaise.        Data Privacy.  This provision supplements
Section 22 of the Agreement:      You hereby authorize the Company, the Employer and their representatives to discuss with and obtain all
relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan. You further authorize the Company and its subsidiaries to disclose and discuss the Plan with their advisors. You further
authorize the Company and its subsidiaries to record such information and to keep such information in your employee file.   
   Chile        Securities Law
Information.  Neither the Company, the Performance Share Units nor the Shares you may acquire upon vesting of your Performance Share Units are registered with the Registry of Securities or under the control of the Chilean Superintendence of
Securities.       Exchange Control and Tax Information.  You are not required to repatriate proceeds obtained from the sale of Shares or from
dividends to Chile; however, if you decide to repatriate proceeds from the sale of Shares and/or dividends and the amount of the proceeds to be repatriated exceeds US$10,000, you acknowledge that you must effect such repatriation through the Formal
Exchange Market ( i.e. , a commercial bank or registered foreign exchange office).      Further, if the value of your aggregate investments
held outside of Chile exceeds US$5,000,000 (including the value of Shares acquired under the Plan), you must report the status of such investments annually to the Central Bank using Annex 3.1 of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations.
  
         Addendum-3

Finally, if you hold Shares acquired under the Plan outside of Chile, you must inform the Chilean Internal
Revenue Service (the  CIRS ) of the details of your investment in the Shares by Filing Tax Form 1851  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Investments Held Abroad.  Further, if you wish to receive credit against your Chilean
income taxes for any taxes paid abroad, you must report the payment of taxes abroad to the CIRS by filing Tax Form 1853  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Credits for Taxes Paid Abroad.  These statements must be submitted
electronically through the CIRS website before March 15 of each year.       China    
   The following provisions apply if you are subject to the exchange control regulations in China, as determined by the Company in its sole discretion:
       Settlement of Performance Share Units and Sale of Shares.  Due to local regulatory requirements, upon the vesting of the Performance
Share Units, you agree to the immediate sale of any Shares to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the Performance Share Units. You further agree that the Company is authorized to instruct its designated broker to assist with the
mandatory sale of such Shares (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization) and you expressly authorize the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of such Shares. You acknowledge that the Company s designated broker is under no
obligation to arrange for the sale of the Shares at any particular price. Upon the sale of the Shares, the Company agrees to pay you the cash proceeds from the sale of the Shares, less any brokerage fees or commissions and subject to any obligation
to satisfy Tax-Related Items.       Treatment of Performance Share Units Upon Termination of Employment.  Notwithstanding anything in the
Agreement to the contrary, upon termination of your employment, you will forfeit any Pro Rata Portion of Performance Share Units vesting after your termination of employment. Any Performance Share Units earned but unvested as of your termination of
employment will vest immediately upon such termination date and the distributed Shares will be sold immediately upon vesting, as described above. You will not continue to vest in Performance Share Units or be entitled to any Pro Rata Portion of
Performance Share Units after your termination of employment. Any Shares distributed to you according to this paragraph will be sold immediately upon distribution, as described above.       Exchange Control Information.  You understand and agree that, to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements, you will be required to immediately repatriate to China the cash proceeds
from the immediate sale of the Shares issued upon the vesting of the Performance Share Units. You further understand that, under local law, such repatriation of the cash proceeds will be effectuated through a special exchange control account
established by the Company or its subsidiaries, and you hereby consent and agree that the proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to you. The Company may deliver
the proceeds to you in U.S. dollars or local currency at the Company s discretion. If the proceeds are paid in U.S. dollars, you understand that you will be required to set up a U.S. dollar bank account in China so that the proceeds may be
deposited into this account. If the proceeds are converted to local currency, there may be delays in delivering the proceeds to you and due to fluctuations in the Shares trading price and/or the U.S. dollar/PRC exchange rate between the vesting/sale
date and (if later) when the sale proceeds can be converted into local currency, the sale proceeds that you receive may be more or less than the market value of the Shares on the vesting/sale date (which is the amount relevant to determining your
tax liability). You agree to bear the risk of any currency fluctuation between the date the Performance Share Units vest and the date of conversion of the proceeds into local currency.      You further agree to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in China.   
         Addendum-4

Colombia        Exchange Control Information.  Investments in assets located outside of Colombia (including Shares) are subject to registration with the Central Bank (Banco de la Rep blica) if the aggregate
value of such investments is US$500,000 or more (as of December 31 of the applicable calendar year). Further, upon the sale of any Shares that you have registered with the Central Bank, you must cancel the registration by March 31 of the
following year. You may be subject to fines if you fail to cancel such registration.       Czech Republic    
   Exchange Control Information.  The Czech National Bank may require you to fulfill certain notification duties in relation to the Performance Share
Units and the opening and maintenance of a foreign account. However, because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your personal legal advisor prior to the vesting of the Performance Share Units and
the sale of Shares to ensure compliance with current regulations. It is your responsibility to comply with any applicable Czech exchange control laws.       Denmark        Stock Option Act.  You acknowledge that you have received an Employer
Statement in Danish.       Exchange Control Information.  If you establish an account holding Shares or an account holding cash outside
Denmark, you must report the account to the Danish Tax Administration. The form may be obtained from a local bank. Please note that these obligations are separate from and in addition to the obligations described below.   
   Securities/Tax Reporting Information.  If you hold Shares acquired under the Plan in a brokerage account with a broker or bank outside Denmark, you
are required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about the account. For this purpose, you must file a Form V (Erklaering V) with the Danish Tax Administration. Both you and the broker or bank must sign the Form V. By signing the
Form V, the broker or bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward information to the Danish Tax
Administration concerning the Shares in the account. In the event that the applicable broker or bank with which the account is held does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to
report, you acknowledge that you are solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account and any Shares acquired at vesting and held in such account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of your annual
income tax return. By signing the Form V, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account. A sample of the Form V can be found at the following website:  www.skat.dk .   
  In addition, if you open a brokerage account (or a deposit account with a U.S. bank), the brokerage account likely will be treated as a deposit account
because cash can be held in the account. Therefore, you likely must file a Form K (Erklaering K) with the Danish Tax Administration. The Form K must be signed both by you and by the applicable broker or bank where the account is held.
By signing the Form K, the broker/bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward information to the Danish
Tax Administration concerning the content of the account. In the event that the applicable financial institution (broker or bank) with which the account is held, does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed
to assume such obligation to report, you acknowledge that you are solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of your annual income tax return. By signing
the Form K, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account. A sample of the Form K can be found at the following website:  www.skat.dk .   
         Addendum-5

Ecuador       There are no country-specific provisions.       Egypt    
   Exchange Control Information.  If you transfer funds into Egypt in connection with the Performance Share Units, you are required to transfer the
funds through a registered bank in Egypt.       European Union Member States    
   Retirement.  The following provision supplements Section 6 of the Agreement:      Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the EU Employment Equality Directive has been implemented in your country of employment or residence or if the Company receives a legal opinion that there has been a
legal judgment and/or legal development in your jurisdiction that likely would result in the favorable Retirement treatment that applies to the Performance Share Units under the Plan being deemed unlawful and/or discriminatory, the provision above
regarding termination of employment due to Retirement shall not be applicable to you.       Finland    
  There are no country specific provisions.       France        Language Acknowledgement    
   En signant et renvoyant le pr sent document d crivant les termes et conditions de votre attribution, vous confirmez ainsi avoir lu et
compris les documents relatifs   cette attribution (le Plan et ce Contrat d Attribution) qui vous ont  t  communiqu s en langue anglaise.       By accepting your Performance Share Units, you confirm having read and understood the documents relating to this grant (the Plan and this Agreement) which were provided to you in English.   
   Exchange Control Information.  If you import or export cash ( e.g. , sales proceeds received under the Plan) with a value equal to or
exceeding  10,000 and do not use a financial institution to do so, you must submit a report to the customs and excise authorities.     If you
hold Shares outside of France or maintain a foreign bank account, you are required to report such to the French tax authorities when filing your annual tax return. Failure to comply could trigger significant penalties.   
   Germany       Exchange
Control Information. Cross-border payments in excess of  12,500 must be reported monthly to the German Federal Bank. In the event that you make or receive a payment in excess of this amount, you are responsible for obtaining the appropriate
form from the remitting bank and complying with applicable reporting requirements.   
         Addendum-6

Greece       There are no country-specific provisions.       Hong Kong    
   Securities Law Information.   Warning: The Performance Share Units and any Shares issued at vesting do not constitute a public offering of
securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to employees of the Company or its subsidiaries. The Agreement, including this Addendum, the Plan and other incidental communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are
not intended to constitute a  prospectus  for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong, nor have the documents been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. The Performance Share
Units are intended only for the personal use of each eligible employee of the Employer, the Company or any subsidiary and may not be distributed to any other person. If you are in any doubt about any of the contents of the Agreement, including this
Addendum, or the Plan, or any other incidental communication materials, you should obtain independent professional advice.        Settlement
of Performance Share Units and Sale of Shares.  Notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, Performance Share Units will be settled in Shares only, not cash. In addition, notwithstanding any terms or
conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, no Shares acquired under the Plan can be sold prior to six months from the Award Date.   
   Nature of Scheme.  The Company specifically intends that the Plan will not be an occupational retirement scheme for purposes of the Occupational
Retirement Schemes Ordinance ( ORSO ).       Hungary       There are no country-specific provisions.       India    
   Exchange Control Information.  You must repatriate all proceeds received from the sale of Shares and any cash dividends to India within a
reasonable time following the sale ( i.e. , within 90 days). You must maintain the foreign inward remittance certificate received from the bank where the foreign currency is deposited in the event that the Reserve Bank of India or the Company
or the Employer requests proof of repatriation.  It is your responsibility to comply with applicable exchange control laws in India.    
  Effective April 1, 2012, you are required to declare in your annual tax return (a) any foreign assets held by you or (b) any foreign bank
accounts for which you have signing authority.       Ireland        Director Notification Obligation.  If you are a director, shadow director, or secretary of an Irish subsidiary, you are subject to certain notification requirements under the Companies Act, 1990.
Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Irish subsidiary in writing within five business days of receiving or disposing of an interest (e.g., Performance Share Units, Shares) in the Company and the number and class of Shares or
rights to which the interest relates, or within five business days of becoming aware of the event giving rise to the notification requirement or within five days of becoming a director or secretary if such an interest exists at the time. This
disclosure requirement also applies to any rights or Shares acquired by your spouse or child(ren) (under the age of 18).   
   Israel        Settlement of
Performance Share Units and Sale of Shares.  Due to local regulatory requirements, upon the vesting of the Performance Share Units, you agree to the immediate sale of any Shares to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the Performance
Share Units. You further agree that the Company is authorized to instruct its designated broker to assist with the mandatory sale of such Shares   
         Addendum-7

(on your behalf pursuant to this authorization) and you expressly authorize the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of such Shares. You acknowledge that the Company s
designated broker is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the Shares at any particular price. Upon the sale of the Shares, the Company agrees to pay you the cash proceeds from the sale of the Shares, less any brokerage fees or commissions
and subject to any obligation to satisfy Tax-Related Items.       Italy    
   Data Privacy Notice.  This section replaces Section 22 of the Agreement:      You understand that the Company and the Employer are the privacy representatives of the Company in Italy and may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home
address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships held in the Company or any subsidiaries, details of all Performance Share Units or any other
entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, and that the Company and the Employer will process said data and other data lawfully received from third parties ( Personal Data ) for the exclusive
purpose of managing and administering the Plan and complying with applicable laws, regulations and Community legislation. You also understand that providing the Company with Personal Data is mandatory for compliance with laws and is necessary for
the performance of the Plan and that your denial to provide Personal Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. You understand that Personal Data will
not be publicized, but it may be accessible by the Employer as the privacy representative of the Company and within the Employer s organization by its internal and external personnel in charge of processing, and by Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
or any other data processor appointed by the Company. The updated list of processors and of the subjects to which Data are communicated will remain available upon request from the Employer. Furthermore, Personal Data may be transferred to banks,
other financial institutions or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan. You understand that Personal Data may also be transferred to the independent registered public accounting firm engaged by the Company, and also to the
legitimate addressees under applicable laws. You further understand that the Company and its subsidiaries will transfer Personal Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of your
participation in the Plan, and that the Company and its subsidiaries may each further transfer Personal Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer of
Personal Data to Morgan Stanley Smith Barney or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any Shares acquired under the Plan or any proceeds from the sale of such Shares. Such recipients may receive, possess, use, retain and transfer
Personal Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that these recipients may be acting as controllers, processors or persons in charge of processing,
as the case may be, according to applicable privacy laws, and that they may be located in or outside the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere, in countries that do not provide an adequate level of data protection as
intended under Italian privacy law.      Should the Company exercise its discretion in suspending all necessary legal obligations connected with
the management and administration of the Plan, it will delete Personal Data as soon as it has accomplished all the necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan.   
  You understand that Personal Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions,
anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Personal Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree
no. 196/2003.   
         Addendum-8

The processing activity, including communication, the transfer of Personal Data abroad, including outside of
the European Economic Area, as specified herein and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require your consent thereto as the processing is necessary to performance of law and contractual obligations related to implementation,
administration and management of the Plan. You understand that, pursuant to section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, you have the right at any moment to, including, but not limited to, obtain confirmation that Personal Data exists
or not, access, verify its contents, origin and accuracy, delete, update, integrate, correct, block or stop, for legitimate reason, the Personal Data processing. To exercise privacy rights, you should contact the Employer. Furthermore, you are aware
that Personal Data will not be used for direct marketing purposes. In addition, Personal Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting your human resources department.   
   Plan Document Acknowledgment.  By accepting the Performance Share Units, you acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan, reviewed the
Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum.      In addition, you further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and expressly approve without limitation the following clauses in the Agreement: Section 9 (Responsibility for Taxes);
Section 13 (Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and Performance Share Units); Section 14 (No Advice Regarding Grant); Section 15 (Right to Continued Employment); Section 17 (Deemed Acceptance); Section 19 (Severability and
Validity); Section 20 (Governing Law, Jurisdiction and Venue); Section 22 (Data Privacy, as replaced by the above provision in this Addendum); Section 23 (Electronic Delivery and Acceptance); Section 24 (Language);
Section 25 (Compliance with Laws and Regulations); Section 26 (Entire Agreement and No Oral Modification or Waiver); Section 27 (Addendum); and Section 28 (Imposition of Other Requirements).   
   Additional Tax/Exchange Control Information.  You are required to report in your annual tax return: (a) any transfers of cash or Shares to or
from Italy exceeding  10,000 or the equivalent amount in U.S. dollars; (b) any foreign investments or investments (including proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan) held outside of Italy exceeding  10,000 or the
equivalent amount in U.S. dollars, if the investment may give rise to taxable income in Italy and (c) the amount of the transfers to and from abroad which have had an impact during the calendar year on your foreign investments or investments
held outside of Italy. Under certain circumstances, you may be exempt from requirement under (a) above if the transfer or investment is made through an authorized broker resident in Italy.   
  Starting from 2011, a tax on the value of financial assets held outside of Italy by Italian residents has been introduced. The tax will apply at an
annual rate of 0.15% beginning in 2013. The taxable amount will be the fair market value of the financial assets, assessed at the end of the calendar year. For the purposes of the market value assessment, the documentation issued by the Plan broker
may be used.       Japan        Offshore Assets Reporting Information.  You will be required to report details of any assets (including any Shares acquired under the Plan) held outside of Japan as of December 31st of each
year, to the extent such assets have a total net fair market value exceeding  50,000,000. Such report will be due by March 15th of the following year. You should consult with your personal tax advisor as to whether the reporting obligation
applies to you and whether you will be required to report details of any outstanding Performance Share Units or Shares held by you in the report.       Korea        Exchange Control Information.  Korean residents who realize US$500,000 or
more from the sale of Shares or receipt of dividends in a single transaction are required to repatriate the proceeds to Korea within 18 months of receipt.   
         Addendum-9

Kuwait       There are no country-specific provisions.       Luxembourg    
   Exchange Control Information.  You are required to report any inward remittances of funds to the  Banque Central de Luxembourg  and/or the
 Service Central de La Statistique et des  tudes  conomiques  within 15 working days following the month during which the transaction occurred. If a Luxembourg financial institution is involved in the transaction, it generally
will fulfill the reporting obligation on your behalf.       Mexico        Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgment.  By accepting this Award, you expressly recognize that the Company, with offices at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154, U.S.A., is solely responsible for
the administration of the Plan and that your participation in the Plan and acquisition of shares does not constitute an employment relationship between you and the Company since you are participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and your
sole employer is Bristol-Myers Squibb Company in Mexico ( BMS-Mexico ), not the Company in the United States. Based on the foregoing, you expressly recognize that the Plan and the benefits that you may derive from participation in the Plan
do not establish any rights between you and your employer, BMS-Mexico, and do not form part of the employment conditions and/or benefits provided by BMS-Mexico and any modification of the Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or
impairment of the terms and conditions of your employment.      You further understand that your participation in the Plan is as a result of a
unilateral and discretionary decision of the Company; therefore, the Company reserves the absolute right to amend and/or discontinue your participation at any time without any liability to you.   
  Finally, you hereby declare that you do not reserve to yourself any action or right to bring any claim against the Company for any compensation or
damages regarding any provision of the Plan or the benefits derived under the Plan, and you therefore grant a full and broad release to the Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates, branches, representation offices, its shareholders, officers, agents
or legal representatives with respect to any claim that may arise.          Pol tica Laboral y
Reconocimiento/Aceptaci n.    Aceptando este Premio1, el participante reconoce que la Compa  a, with offices at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154, U.S.A., es el  nico responsable de la
administraci n del Plan y que la participaci n del Participante en el mismo y la adquisicion de acciones no constituye de ninguna manera una relaci n laboral entre el Participante y la Compa  a, toda vez que la
participaci n del participante en el Plan deriva  nicamente de una relaci n comercial con la Compa  a, reconociendo expresamente que el  nico empleador del participante lo es Bristol-Myers Squibb Company en
Mexico ( BMS-Mexico ), no es la Compa  a en los Estados Unidos. Derivado de lo anterior, el participante expresamente reconoce que el Plan y los beneficios que pudieran derivar del mismo no establecen ning n derecho
entre el participante y su empleador, BMS-M xico, y no forman parte de las condiciones laborales y/o prestaciones otorgadas por BMS-M xico, y expresamente el participante reconoce que cualquier modificaci n el Plan o la
terminaci n del mismo de manera alguna podr  ser interpretada como una modificaci n de los condiciones de trabajo del participante.    

1   
   El t rmino  Premio  se refiere a la palabra  Award.       
         Addendum-10

Asimismo, el participante entiende que su participaci n en el Plan es resultado de la
decisi n unilateral y discrecional de la Compa  a, por lo tanto, la Compa  a. Se reserva el derecho absoluto para modificar y/o terminar la participaci n del participante en cualquier momento, sin ninguna
responsabilidad para el participante.        Finalmente, el participante manifiesta que no se reserva ninguna acci n o derecho que
origine una demanda en contra de la Compa  a, por cualquier compensaci n o da o en relaci n con cualquier disposici n del Plan o de los beneficios derivados del mismo, y en consecuencia el participante
otorga un amplio y total finiquito a la Compa  a, sus entidades relacionadas, afiliadas, sucursales, oficinas de representaci n, sus accionistas, directores, agentes y representantes legales con respecto a cualquier demanda que
pudiera surgir.        Netherlands        Insider-Trading Notification.  You should be aware of the Dutch insider-trading rules, which may impact the sale of Shares issued to you at settlement of the Performance Share Units. In particular,
you may be prohibited from effectuating certain transactions involving Shares if you have inside information about the Company.      Under
Article 5:56 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, anyone who has  inside information  related to an issuing company is prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in or from the Netherlands.  Inside
information  is defined as knowledge of specific information concerning the issuing company to which the securities relate or the trade in securities issued by such company, which has not been made public and which, if published, would
reasonably be expected to affect the share price, regardless of the development of the price. The insider could be any employee of a subsidiary in the Netherlands who has inside information as described herein.   
  Given the broad scope of the definition of inside information, certain employees working at a subsidiary in the Netherlands may have inside information
and, thus, would be prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in the Netherlands at a time when they have such inside information.      By accepting the Performance Share Units and the underlying Shares, you acknowledge having read and understood the notification above and acknowledge that it is your responsibility to comply with the
Dutch insider trading rules, as discussed herein.      If you are uncertain whether the insider-trading rules apply to you, you should consult
your personal legal advisor.       Norway       There are no country-specific provisions.       Peru    
   Securities Law Information.  The grant of Performance Share Units is considered a private offering in Peru; therefore, it is not subject to
registration.       Poland        Exchange Control Information.  Polish residents holding foreign securities (including Shares) and maintaining accounts abroad must report information to the National Bank of Poland. Specifically, if
the aggregate value of shares and cash held in such foreign accounts exceeds PLN 7 million, Polish residents must file reports on the transactions and balances of the accounts on a quarterly basis on special forms
  
         Addendum-11

that are available on the website of the National Bank of Poland. In addition, Polish residents are required to transfer funds ( i.e. , in connection with the sale of Shares) through a bank
account in Poland if the transferred amount in any single transaction exceeds a specified threshold (currently  15,000). If you are a Polish resident, you must also store all documents connected with any foreign exchange transactions you engage
in for a period of five years, as measured from the end of the year in which such transaction occurred. You should consult with your personal legal advisor to determine what you must do to fulfill any applicable reporting duties.   
   Portugal        Language
Consent.  You hereby expressly declare that you have full knowledge of the English language and have read, understood and fully accepted and agreed with the terms and conditions established in the Plan and the Agreement.   
   Conhecimento da Lingua. Voc  expressamente declara ter pleno conhecimento do idioma ingl s e ter lido, entendido e totalmente aceito e
concordou com os termos e condi  es estabelecidas no plano e no acordo.        Exchange Control Information.  If you acquire
Shares under the Plan and do not hold the shares with a Portuguese financial intermediary, you may need to file a report with the Portuguese Central Bank. If the shares are held by a Portuguese financial intermediary, it will file the report for
you.       Puerto Rico       There are no country-specific provisions.       Romania    
   Exchange Control Information.  If you deposit the proceeds from the sale of your Shares in a bank account in Romania, you may have to provide the
Romanian bank through which the operations are effected with appropriate documentation regarding the receipt of the income. You should consult with a personal legal advisor to determine whether you will be required to submit such documentation to
the Romanian bank.       Russia        Exchange Control Information.  You acknowledge that you must repatriate the proceeds from the sale of Shares and any dividends/Dividend Equivalents received in relation to the Performance Share
Units within a reasonably short time of receipt. Such amounts must be initially credited to you through a foreign currency account opened in your name at an authorized bank in Russia. After the funds are initially received in Russia, they may be
further remitted to foreign banks subject to the following limitations: (i) the foreign account may be opened only for individuals; (ii) the foreign account may not be used for business activities; and (iii) you must give notice to
the Russian tax authorities about the opening/closing of each foreign account within one month of the account opening/closing.       Securities
Law Information.  These materials do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia nor do they constitute placement of the Shares in Russia. The issuance of Shares pursuant to the Performance Share Units described herein has
not and will not be registered in Russia and hence, the Shares described herein may not be admitted or used for offering, placement or public circulation in Russia.   
         Addendum-12

U.S. Transaction.  Any Shares issued pursuant to the Performance Share Units shall be delivered to you
through a brokerage account in the U.S. You may hold Shares in your brokerage account in the U.S.; however, in no event will shares issued to you and/or share certificates or other instruments be delivered to you in Russia. You are not permitted to
make any public advertising or announcements regarding the Performance Share Units or Shares in Russia, or promote these shares to other Russian legal entities or individuals, and you are not permitted to sell or otherwise dispose of Shares directly
to other Russian legal entities or individuals. You are permitted to sell Shares only on the New York Stock Exchange and only through a U.S. broker.       Data Privacy Consent.  This section replaces Section 22 of the Agreement:      You hereby
explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, your Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries for the
exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.      You understand that the Company, any subsidiary
and/or your Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title,
any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all Performance Share Units or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and
managing the Plan ( Data ).      You understand that Data may be transferred to Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, or such other stock plan
service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which assists in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. You understand that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and
that the recipient s country (e.g. the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may request a list with the names and addresses of
any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the International Compensation and Benefits Group. You authorize the Company, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney and other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with
implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any
requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the Shares received upon vesting of the Performance Share Units may be deposited. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is
necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data,
require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case and without cost, by contacting in writing the International Compensation and Benefits Group. Further, you understand that you are providing the consents
herein on a purely voluntary basis. If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing or
withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you Performance Share Units or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your
ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact the International Compensation and Benefits Group.   
   Labor Law Information.  You acknowledge that if you continue to hold Shares acquired under the Plan after an involuntary termination of your
employment, you will not be eligible to receive unemployment benefits in Russia.   
         Addendum-13

Saudi Arabia        Securities Law Information.  This document may not be distributed in the Kingdom except to such persons as are permitted under the Offers of Securities Regulations issued by the Capital Market
Authority.      The Capital Market Authority does not make any representation as to the accuracy or completeness of this document, and expressly
disclaims any liability whatsoever for any loss arising from, or incurred in reliance upon, any part of this document. Prospective purchasers of the securities offered hereby should conduct their own due diligence on the accuracy of the information
relating to the securities. If you do not understand the contents of this document you should consult an authorized financial advisor.       Singapore        Securities Law Information.  The grant of Performance Share Units is
being made in reliance of section 273(1)(f) of the Securities and Futures Act (Chap. 289) ( SFA ) for which it is exempt from the prospectus and registration requirements under the SFA. The Plan has not been lodged or registered as a
prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore. You should note that the Performance Share Units are subject to section 257 of the SFA and you will not be able to make (i) any subsequent sale of the Shares in Singapore or (ii) any
offer of such subsequent sale of the Shares subject to the Performance Share Units in Singapore, unless such sale or offer is made pursuant to the exemptions under Part XIII Division (1) Subdivision (4) (other than section 280) of the SFA
(Chapter 289, 2006 Ed.).       Director Notification Requirement.  If you are a director, associate director or shadow director of a
Singapore company, you are subject to certain notification requirements under the Singapore Companies Act. Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Singapore company in writing when you receive an interest (e.g., Performance Share
Units, Shares) in the Company or any related companies. In addition, you must notify the Singapore company when you sell shares of the Company or any related company (including when you sell Shares acquired pursuant to your Performance Share Units).
These notifications must be made within two business days of acquiring or disposing of any interest in the Company or any related company. In addition, a notification must be made of your interests in the Company or any related company within two
business days of becoming a director.       Insider Trading Notification.  You should be aware of the Singapore insider trading rules, which
may impact the acquisition or disposal of shares or rights to Shares under the Plan. Under the Singapore insider trading rules, you are prohibited from acquiring or selling Shares or rights to Shares (e.g., Performance Share Units under the Plan)
when you are in possession of information which is not generally available and which you know or should know will have a material effect on the price of Shares once such information is generally available.   
   South Africa    
   Exchange Control Information.  You are solely responsible for complying with applicable South African exchange control regulations. Because the
exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your legal advisor prior to the acquisition or sale of Shares under the Plan to ensure compliance with current regulations. As noted, it is your responsibility to
comply with South African exchange control laws, and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from failure to comply with applicable laws.   
         Addendum-14

Spain        Exchange Control Information.  To participate in the Plan, you must comply with exchange control regulations in Spain. When receiving foreign currency payments exceeding  50,000 derived from
the ownership of Shares issued pursuant to the Performance Share Units ( i.e. , dividends, Dividend Equivalents or sale proceeds), you must inform the financial institution receiving the payment of the basis upon which such payment is made. You
will need to provide the institution with the following information: (i) your name, address, and fiscal identification number; (ii) the name and corporate domicile of the Company; (iii) the amount of the payment and the currency used;
(iv) the country of origin; (v) the reasons for the payment; and (vi) further information that may be required.      If you acquire
Shares issued pursuant to the Performance Share Units and wish to import the ownership title of such shares ( i.e. , share certificates) into Spain, you must declare the importation of such securities to the Spanish  Direccion General de
Pol tica Comercial y de Inversiones Extranjeras  (the  DGPCIE ). Generally, the declaration must be made in January for Shares acquired or sold during (or owned as of December 31 of) the prior year; however, if the value of
shares acquired or sold exceeds  1,502,530 (or you hold 10% or more of the share capital of the Company or such other amount that would entitle you to join the Company s board of directors), the declaration must be filed within one month
of the acquisition or sale, as applicable. In addition, you also must file a declaration of ownership of foreign securities with the Directorate of Foreign Transactions each January.      Further, effective January 1, 2013, to the extent that you hold assets (e.g., cash or Shares held in a bank or brokerage account) or rights (e.g., the Performance Share Units) outside of Spain with a
value in excess of  20,000 (on a per-asset basis) as of December 31 each year, you will be required to report information on such rights and assets on your tax return for such year.       Labor Law Acknowledgment.  This provision supplements Sections 6 and 13 of the Agreement:      By accepting the Performance Share Units, you consent to participation in the Plan and acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan document.   
  You understand and agree that, as a condition of the grant of the Performance Share Units, except as provided for in Section 2 of the Agreement,
your termination of employment for any reason (including for the reasons listed below) will automatically result in the forfeiture of any Performance Share Units that have not vested on the date of your termination.   
  In particular, you understand and agree that, unless otherwise provided in the Agreement, the Performance Share Units will be forfeited without
entitlement to the underlying Shares or to any amount as indemnification in the event of a termination of your employment prior to vesting by reason of, including, but not limited to: resignation, disciplinary dismissal adjudged to be with cause,
disciplinary dismissal adjudged or recognized to be without cause, individual or collective layoff on objective grounds, whether adjudged to be with cause or adjudged or recognized to be without cause, material modification of the terms of
employment under Article 41 of the Workers  Statute, relocation under Article 40 of the Workers  Statute, Article 50 of the Workers  Statute, unilateral withdrawal by the Employer, and under Article 10.3 of Royal
Decree 1382/1985.      Furthermore, you understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and discretionally decided to grant
Performance Share Units under the Plan to individuals who may be employees of the Company or a subsidiary. The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or
otherwise bind the Company or any subsidiary on an ongoing basis, other than as expressly set forth in the Agreement. Consequently, you understand that the Performance Share Units are granted on the assumption and condition that the Performance
Share Units and the Shares underlying the Performance Share Units shall not become a part of any employment or service contract (either with the Company, the Employer or any subsidiary) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any
purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever. In addition, you understand that the Performance Share Units would not be granted to you but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, you acknowledge and
freely accept that, should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then any Award of Performance Share Units shall be null and void.   
         Addendum-15

Securities Law Information.  The Performance Share Units and the Shares described in the Agreement and
this Addendum do not qualify under Spanish regulations as securities. No  offer of securities to the public,  as defined under Spanish law, has taken place or will take place in the Spanish territory. The Agreement (including this
Addendum) has not been nor will it be registered with the  Comisi n Nacional del Mercado de Valores , and does not constitute a public offering prospectus.       Sweden       There are no country-specific provisions.   
   Switzerland    
   Securities Law Information.  The Performance Share Units offered are considered a private offering in Switzerland; therefore, they are not subject
to registration in Switzerland.       Taiwan        Exchange Control Information.  You may remit foreign currency (including proceeds from the sale of Shares) into or out of Taiwan up to US$5,000,000 per year without special permission. If the
transaction amount is TWD500,000 or more in a single transaction, you must submit a Foreign Exchange Transaction Form to the remitting bank and provide supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank.   
   Thailand        Exchange
Control Information.  If the proceeds from the sale of Shares or the receipt of dividends are equal to or greater than US$50,000 or more in a single transaction, you must repatriate the proceeds to Thailand immediately upon receipt and convert
the funds to Thai Baht or deposit the proceeds in a foreign currency deposit account maintained by a bank in Thailand within 360 days of remitting the proceeds to Thailand. In addition you must report the inward remittance to the Bank of
Thailand on a foreign exchange transaction form. If you fail to comply with these obligations, you may be subject to penalties assessed by the Bank of Thailand. Because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should
consult your personal advisor before selling Shares to ensure compliance with current regulations. You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Thailand, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries will be
liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable laws.       Tunisia    
   Securities Law Information.  All proceeds from the sale of Shares must be repatriated to Tunisia. You should consult your personal advisor before
taking action with respect to remittance of proceeds into Tunisia. You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Tunisia. In addition, if you hold assets abroad in excess of a certain amount, you must report the
assets to the Central Bank of Tunisia.       Turkey        Securities Law Information.  Under Turkish law, you are not permitted to sell Shares acquired under the Plan in Turkey. The Shares are currently traded on the New York Stock Exchange, which is
located outside of Turkey, under the ticker symbol  BMY  and the Shares may be sold through this exchange.   
         Addendum-16

United Arab Emirates        Securities Law Information.  The Plan is only being offered to qualified employees and is in the nature of providing equity incentives to employees of the Company or its subsidiary or affiliate in
the UAE. Any documents related to the Plan, including the Plan, Plan prospectus and other grant documents ( Plan Documents ), are intended for distribution only to such employees and must not be delivered to, or relied on by, any other
person. Prospective purchasers of the securities offered should conduct their own due diligence on the securities. If you do not understand the contents of the Plan Documents, you should consult an authorized financial adviser.   
  The Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority has no responsibility for reviewing or verifying any Plan Documents nor taken steps to verify the
information set out in them, and thus, are not responsible for such documents.       United Kingdom    
   Responsibility for Taxes.  This provision supplements Section 9 of the Agreement:      You agree that, if you do not pay or the Employer or the Company does not withhold from you the full amount of Tax-Related Items that you owe at vesting and settlement of the Performance Share Units, or
the release or assignment of the Performance Share Units for consideration, or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the Performance Share Units (the  Taxable Event ) within 90 days after the Taxable Event, or such other
period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, then the amount of income tax that should have been withheld shall constitute a loan owed by you to the Employer, effective 90 days after the Taxable
Event. You agree that the loan will bear interest at Her Majesty s Revenue   Customs  ( HMRC ) official rate and will be immediately due and repayable by you, and the Company and/or the Employer may recover it at any
time thereafter by withholding the funds from salary, bonus or any other funds due to you by the Employer, by withholding in Shares issued upon vesting of your Performance Share Units or from the cash proceeds from the sale of Shares or by demanding
cash or a cheque from you. You also authorize the Company to delay the issuance of any Shares unless and until the loan is repaid in full.   
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are an officer or executive director (as within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended), the terms of the immediately foregoing provision will not apply. In the event that you are an officer or executive director and the income tax that is due is not collected from or paid by you within 90 days of the Taxable
Event, the amount of any uncollected income tax may constitute a benefit to you on which additional income tax and national insurance contributions may be payable. You will be responsible for reporting and paying any income tax due on this
additional benefit directly to the HMRC under the self-assessment regime and for reimbursing the Company or the Employer (as appropriate) for the value of any employee national insurance contributions due on this additional benefit.   
   Venezuela        Securities
Law Information.  The Performance Share Units granted under the Plan and the Shares issued under the Plan are offered as a personal, private, exclusive transaction and are not subject to Venezuelan securities regulations.   
   Exchange Control Information.  Exchange control restrictions may limit the ability to remit funds out of Venezuela in order to receive Shares upon
vesting of the Performance Share Units, or remit funds into Venezuela following the sale of Shares acquired upon vesting of the Performance Share Units. The Company reserves the right to restrict settlement of the Performance Share Units or to amend
or cancel the Performance Share Units at any time in order to comply with applicable exchange control laws in   
         Addendum-17

Venezuela. Any Shares acquired under the Plan are intended to be an investment rather than for the resale and conversion of the shares into foreign currency. You are responsible for complying
with exchange control laws in Venezuela and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable laws. Because exchange control laws and regulations change frequently
and without notice, you should consult with you personal legal advisor before accepting the Performance Share Units and before selling any Shares acquired upon vesting of the Performance Share Units to ensure compliance with current regulations.
  
         Addendum-18

</EX-10.OO>

<EX-10.PP>
 16
 d450621dex10pp.htm
 EX-10.PP

EX-10.pp 

Exhibit 10pp    

RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AGREEMENT    
  UNDER THE BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY      2012 STOCK AWARD AND INCENTIVE PLAN      BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY, a Delaware
corporation (the  Company ), has granted to you the Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs ) specified in the Grant Summary, which is incorporated into this Restricted Stock Units Agreement (the  Agreement ) and deemed to be a
part hereof. The RSUs have been granted to you under Section 6(e) of the 2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), on the terms and conditions specified in the Grant Summary and this Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this
Agreement that are not specifically defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.       

1.  
   RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARD         The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the  Committee ) has granted to you as of the Award Date an Award of RSUs as
designated herein subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan. Each RSU shall represent the conditional right to receive, upon settlement of the RSU, one share of Bristol-Myers Squibb Common Stock
( Common Stock ) or, at the discretion of the Company, the cash equivalent thereof (subject to any tax withholding as described in Section 4). RSUs include the right to receive dividend equivalents as specified in Section 5
( Dividend Equivalents and Adjustments ). The purpose of such Award is to motivate and retain you as an employee of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, to encourage you to continue to give your best efforts for the Company s
future success, and to increase your proprietary interest in the Company. Except as may be required by law, you are not required to make any payment (other than payments for taxes pursuant to Section 4 hereof) or provide any consideration other
than the rendering of future services to the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.       

2.  
   RESTRICTIONS, FORFEITURES, AND SETTLEMENT         Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2, RSUs shall be subject to the restrictions and conditions set forth herein during the Restricted Period (as defined below). Vesting of the RSUs is
conditioned upon you remaining continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company from the Award Date until the relevant vesting date, subject to the provisions of this Section 2. Assuming satisfaction of such employment
conditions, the RSUs will become vested and nonforfeitable as follows: one-third on the third anniversary of the Award Date; an additional one-third on the fourth anniversary of the Award Date; and the final one-third on the fifth anniversary of the
Award Date. In the event you attain age 65 while still an employee of the Company or a subsidiary, all unvested RSUs held by you at least one year from the Award Date will become vested and non-forfeitable, and thereafter, so long as you remain an
employee of the Company or a subsidiary after attaining age 65, all other RSUs will become 100% vested one year from the Award Date.       

(a)  
   Nontransferability . During the Restricted Period and any further period prior to settlement of your RSUs, you may not sell, transfer, pledge or assign any of the
RSUs or your rights relating thereto.         

(b)  
     Time of Settlement . RSUs shall be settled promptly upon expiration of the Restricted Period without forfeiture of the RSUs ( i.e ., upon
vesting), but in any event within 60 days after expiration of the Restricted Period, by delivery of one share of Common Stock for each RSU being settled, or, at the discretion of the Company, the cash equivalent thereof;
     
         1   

provided, however, that settlement of an RSU shall be subject to Plan Section 11(k), including if applicable the six-month delay rule in Plan Sections
11(k)(i)(C)(2) and 11(k)(i)(G). ( Note: This rule may apply to any portion of the RSUs that vest after the time you become Retirement eligible under the Plan, and could apply in other cases as well ). Settlement of RSUs which directly or
indirectly result from non-cash Dividend Equivalents on RSUs or adjustments to RSUs shall occur at the time of settlement of, and subject to the restrictions and conditions that apply to, the granted RSU. Settlement of cash amounts which directly or
indirectly result from Dividend Equivalents on RSUs or adjustments to RSUs shall be included as part of your regular payroll payment as soon as administratively practicable after the settlement date for the underlying RSUs, and subject to the
restrictions and conditions that apply to, the granted RSU. Until shares are delivered to you in settlement of RSUs, you shall have none of the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to the shares issuable in settlement of the RSUs,
including the right to vote the shares and receive actual dividends and other distributions on the underlying shares of Common Stock (you are entitled to Dividend Equivalents, however). Shares of stock issuable in settlement of RSUs shall be
delivered to you upon settlement in certificated form or in such other manner as the Company may reasonably determine. At that time, you will have all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company.     

(c)  
   Retirement and Death . In the event of your Retirement (as that term is defined in the Plan; however, if you attain age 65 before Retirement, RSUs held for at
least one year will have vested prior to Retirement) or your death while employed by the Company prior to the end of the Restricted Period, you, or your estate, shall be deemed vested and entitled to settlement of ( i.e ., the Restricted Period
shall expire with respect to) a proportionate number of the total number of RSUs granted (taking into account RSUs previously vested), provided that you have been continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for at least one
year following the Award Date and your employment has not been terminated by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company. If you are employed in the United States
(including in Puerto Rico), and you are only eligible for Retirement pursuant to Plan Section 2(x)(iii), you shall be entitled to the pro rata vesting described in this Section 2(c) only if you execute and do not revoke a release in favor
of the Company and its predecessors, successors, affiliates, subsidiaries, directors and employees in a form satisfactory to the Company and, where deemed applicable by the Company, you execute a non-compete and/or a non-solicitation agreement; if
you fail to execute the non-compete or non-solicitation agreement, or fail to execute or revoke the release, you shall forfeit any RSUs that are unvested as of the date your employment terminates. The formula for determining the proportionate number
of your RSUs to become vested and non-forfeitable upon your Retirement or death is available by request from the Office of the Corporate Secretary at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154. In the event of your death prior to the delivery of
shares in settlement of RSUs (not previously forfeited), shares in settlement of your RSUs shall be delivered to your estate, upon presentation to the Committee of letters testamentary or other documentation satisfactory to the Committee, and your
estate shall succeed to any other rights provided hereunder in the event of your death.         

(d)  
     Termination not for Misconduct/Detrimental Conduct . In the event your employment is terminated by the Company for reasons other than misconduct
or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company, and you are not eligible for Retirement, you shall be entitled to settlement of ( i.e ., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) a proportionate number of the
total number of RSUs granted (taking into account RSUs previously vested), provided that you have been continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for at least one year following the Award Date and your employment has not
been terminated by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for      
         2   

misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company. If you are employed in the United States (including in Puerto Rico), and you are not
eligible for Retirement (as that term is defined in Plan Sections 2(x)(i) or 2(x)(ii)), you shall be entitled to the pro rata vesting described in this Section 2(d) only if you execute and do not revoke a release in favor of the Company and its
predecessors, successors, affiliates, subsidiaries, directors and employees in a form satisfactory to the Company and, where deemed applicable by the Company, you execute a non-compete and/or a non-solicitation agreement; if you fail to execute the
non-compete or non-solicitation agreement, or fail to execute or revoke the release, you shall forfeit any RSUs that are unvested as of the date your employment terminates. The formula for determining the proportionate number of RSUs you are
entitled to under this Section 2(d) is available by request from the Office of the Corporate Secretary at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154.         

(e)  
   Disability . In the event you become Disabled (as that term is defined below), for the period during which you continue to be deemed to be employed by the Company
or a subsidiary ( i.e ., the period during which you receive Disability benefits), you will not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of the RSUs. Upon the termination of your receipt of Disability benefits, (i) you will not
be deemed to have terminated employment if you return to employment status, and (ii) if you do not return to employment status, you will be deemed to have terminated employment at the date of cessation of payments to you under all disability
pay plans of the Company and its subsidiaries, with such termination treated for purposes of the RSUs as a Retirement, death, or voluntary termination based on your circumstances at the time of such termination. For purposes of this Agreement,
 Disability  or  Disabled  shall mean qualifying for and receiving payments under a disability plan of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate either in the United States or in a jurisdiction outside of the United States, and
in jurisdictions outside of the United States shall also include qualifying for and receiving payments under a mandatory or universal disability plan or program managed or maintained by the government.     

(f)  
   Qualifying Termination Following Change in Control . In the event your employment is terminated by reason of a Qualifying Termination during the Protected Period
following a Change in Control, the Restricted Period and all remaining restrictions shall expire and the RSUs shall be deemed fully vested.         

(g)  
   Other Termination of Employment . In the event of your voluntary termination, or termination by the Company or a subsidiary for misconduct or other conduct deemed
by the Company to be detrimental to the interests of the Company, you shall forfeit all unvested RSUs on the date of termination.         

(h)  
   Other Terms .         

(i)  
  In the event that you fail promptly to pay or make satisfactory arrangements as to the Tax-Related Items as provided in Section 4, all RSUs subject to restriction
shall be forfeited by you and shall be deemed to be reacquired by the Company.         

(ii)  
  You may, at any time prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, waive all rights with respect to all or some of the RSUs by delivering to the Company a written
notice of such waiver.         

(iii)  
  Termination of employment includes any event if immediately thereafter you are no longer an employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, subject to
Section 2(i) hereof. References in this Section 2 to employment by the Company include employment by a subsidiary of the Company. Termination of employment means an event after which you are no longer employed by the Company or any
subsidiary of the Company. Such an event could include the disposition of a subsidiary or business unit by the Company or a subsidiary.     
         3   

(iv)  
  Upon any termination of your employment, any RSUs as to which the Restricted Period has not expired at or before such termination shall be forfeited, subject to
Sections 2(c)-(f) hereof. Other provisions of this Agreement notwithstanding, in no event will an RSU that has been forfeited thereafter vest or be settled.     

(v)  
  In the event of termination of your employment or other service relationship (for any reason whatsoever, whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of
employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or determined by the Company, your right to vest in the RSU under the Plan, if any, will
terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively providing services and will not be extended by any notice period ( e.g ., active services would not include any contractual notice period or any period of  garden
leave  or similar period mandated under employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively
providing services for purposes of your Award of RSUs.         

(i)  
  The following events shall not be deemed a termination of employment:         

(i)  
  A transfer of you from the Company to a subsidiary, or vice versa, or from one subsidiary to another;     

(ii)  
  A leave of absence, duly authorized in writing by the Company, for military service or sickness or for any other purpose approved by the Company if the period of such
leave does not exceed ninety (90) days; and         

(iii)  
  A leave of absence in excess of ninety (90) days, duly authorized in writing, by the Company, provided your right to reemployment is guaranteed either by a statute
or by contract.        However, your failure to return to active service with the Company or a subsidiary at the end of
an approved leave of absence shall be deemed a termination of employment, subject to local law. During a leave of absence as defined in (ii) or (iii), although you will be considered to have been continuously employed by the Company or a
subsidiary and not to have had a termination of employment under this Section 2, the Committee may specify that such leave period shall not be counted in determining the period of employment for purposes of the vesting of the RSUs. In such
case, the vesting dates for unvested RSUs shall be extended by the length of any such leave of absence.       

3.  
   FORFEITURE IN THE EVENT OF COMPETITION AND/OR SOLICITATION OR OTHER ACTS         You acknowledge that your continued employment with the Company or a subsidiary and the grant of RSUs is sufficient consideration for this Agreement, including, without limitation, the restrictions
imposed upon you by this Section 3.       

(a)  
  By accepting the RSUs, you expressly agree and covenant that during the Restricted Period (as defined below) and the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period (as
defined below), you shall not, without the prior consent of the Company, directly or indirectly:         

(i)  
  own or have any financial interest in a Competitive Business (as defined below), except that nothing in this clause shall prevent you from owning one percent or less of
the outstanding securities of any entity whose securities are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange (including NASDAQ) or an equivalent foreign exchange;     
         4   

(ii)  
  be actively connected with a Competitive Business by managing, operating, controlling, being an employee or consultant (or accepting an offer to be an employee or
consultant) or otherwise advising or assisting a Competitive Business in such a way that such connection might result in an increase in value or worth of any product, technology or service, that competes with any product, technology or service upon
which you worked or about which you became familiar as a result of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate. You may, however, be actively connected with a Competitive Business after your employment with the Company or a
subsidiary terminates for any reason, so long as your connection to the business does not involve any product, technology or service, that competes with any product, technology or service upon which you worked or about which you became familiar as a
result of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary and the Company is provided written assurances of this fact from the Competing Company prior to your beginning such connection;     

(iii)  
  take any action that might divert any opportunity from the Company or any of its affiliates, successors or assigns (the  Related Parties ) that is within the
scope of the present or future operations or business of any Related Parties;         

(iv)  
  employ, solicit for employment, advise or recommend to any other person that they employ or solicit for employment or form an association with any person who is
employed by the Company or its Related Parties or who has been employed by the Company or its Related Parties within one year of the date your employment with the Company or a subsidiary ceased for any reason whatsoever;     

(v)  
  contact, call upon or solicit any customer of the Company, or attempt to divert or take away from the Company the business of any of its customers;

(vi)  
  contact, call upon or solicit any prospective customer of the Company that you became aware of or were introduced to in the course of your duties for the Company or its
Related Parties, or otherwise divert or take away from the Company the business of any prospective customer of the Company; or         

(vii)  
  engage in any activity that is harmful to the interests of the Company, including without limitation, any conduct during the term of your employment that violates the
Company s Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics, securities trading policy and other policies.         

(b)  
   Forfeiture . If the Company determines that you have violated any provisions of Section 3(a) above during the Restricted Period or the Non-Competition and
Non-Solicitation Period, then you agree and covenant that:         

(i)  
  any unvested portion of the RSUs shall be immediately rescinded;         

(ii)  
  you shall automatically forfeit any rights you may have with respect to the RSUs as of the date of such determination;     

(iii)  
  if any part of the RSUs vests within the twelve-month period immediately preceding a violation of Section 3(a) above (or following the date of any such violation),
upon the Company s demand, you shall immediately deliver to it a certificate or certificates for shares of the Company s Common Stock that you acquired upon settlement of such RSUs (or an equivalent number of other shares); and

(iv)  
  the foregoing remedies set forth in this Section 3(b) shall not be the Company s exclusive remedies. The Company reserves all other rights and remedies
available to it at law or in equity.     
         5   

(c)  
   Company Policy . You agree that the Company may recover any incentive-based compensation received by you under this Agreement if such recovery is pursuant to a
clawback or recoupment policy approved by the Committee.         

(d)  
   Definitions . For purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply:     

(i)  
  The Company directly advertises and solicits business from customers wherever they may be found and its business is thus worldwide in scope. Therefore,
 Competitive Business  means any person or entity that engages in any business activity that competes with the Company s business in any way, in any geographic area in which the Company engages in business, including, without
limitation, any state in the United States in which the Company sells or offers to sell its products from time to time.         

(ii)  
   Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period  means the period during which you are employed by the Company and twelve months following the date that you
cease to be employed by the Company for any reason whatsoever.         

(iii)  
   Restricted Period  means, with respect to each RSU, the period from the Award Date until the date such RSU has become vested and non-forfeitable.

(e)  
   Severability . You acknowledge and agree that the period, scope and geographic areas of restriction imposed upon you by the provisions of Section 3 are fair
and reasonable and are reasonably required for the protection of the Company. In the event that all or any part of this Section 3 is held to be unenforceable or invalid, the remaining parts of Section 3 and this Agreement shall
nevertheless continue to be valid and enforceable as though the invalid portions were not a part of this Agreement. If any one of the provisions in Section 3 is held to be excessively broad as to period, scope and geographic areas, any such
provision shall be construed by limiting it to the extent necessary to be enforceable under applicable law.         

(f)  
   Additional Remedies . You acknowledge that breach by you of this Agreement would cause irreparable harm to the Company and that in the event of such breach, the
Company shall have, in addition to monetary damages and other remedies at law, the right to an injunction, specific performance and other equitable relief to prevent violations of your obligations hereunder.     

4.  
   RESPONSIBILITY FOR TAXES      
  You acknowledge that, regardless of any action taken by the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate or your employer ( Employer ),
the ultimate liability for all income tax (including federal, state, local and non-U.S. taxes), social security, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally
applicable to you or deemed by the Company or the Employer to be an appropriate charge to you even if legally applicable to the Company or the Employer ( Tax-Related Items ) is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount
actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate and/or the Employer: (a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in
connection with any aspect of the RSUs, including the grant of the RSUs, the vesting of RSUs, the conversion of the RSUs into shares of Common Stock or the receipt of an equivalent cash payment, the subsequent sale of any shares of Common Stock
acquired at vesting and the receipt of any dividends and/or Dividend Equivalents; and, (b) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the RSUs to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any
particular tax result. Further, if you are subject to Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction between the Award Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as
applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.   
         6   

Prior to the relevant taxable event, you agree to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to
the Company or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items. In this regard, by your acceptance of the RSUs, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to
all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following:       

(a)  
  withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer; or     

(b)  
  withholding from proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired upon settlement of the RSUs either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale
arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent); or         

(c)  
  withholding in shares of Common Stock to be issued upon settlement of the RSUs;        provided, however, if you are a Section 16 officer of the Company under the Exchange Act, then the Company will withhold shares of Common Stock upon the relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as
applicable, unless the use of such withholding method is problematic under applicable tax or securities law or has materially adverse accounting consequences, in which case, the obligation for Tax-Related Items may be satisfied by one or a
combination of methods (a) and (b) above.      Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account
for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates, in which case you will receive a refund of any over-withheld amount in cash and will have
no entitlement to the Common Stock equivalent. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding in shares of Common Stock, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of shares of Common Stock subject to
the vested RSUs, notwithstanding that a number of the shares of Common Stock are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items.      Finally, you agree to pay to the Company or the Employer, including through withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer, any amount of Tax-Related
Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the shares or the
proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock, if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items.      Notwithstanding anything in this Section 4 to the contrary, to avoid a prohibited acceleration under Section 409A, if shares of Common Stock subject to RSUs will be sold on your behalf (or
withheld) to satisfy any Tax-Related Items arising prior to the date of settlement of the RSUs for any portion of the RSUs that is considered nonqualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A, then the number of shares sold on your
behalf (or withheld) shall not exceed the number of shares that equals the liability for Tax-Related Items.       

5.  
   DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS AND ADJUSTMENTS          

(a)  
  Dividend Equivalents shall be paid or credited on RSUs (other than RSUs that, at the relevant record date, previously have been settled or forfeited) as follows, except
that the Committee may specify an alternative treatment from that specified in (i), (ii), or (iii) below for any dividend or distribution:         

(i)  
     Cash Dividends . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of cash, then you will be credited, as
of the payment date for such dividend or distribution, an amount equal to the number of RSUs credited to you as of the record date for such dividend or distribution multiplied by the amount that would have been paid as a dividend or distribution on
each outstanding share of Common Stock at such payment date. Any amounts credited under this Section 5(a)(i) shall be subject to the restrictions and conditions that apply to the RSU with
     
         7   

respect to which the amounts are credited and will become payable when the underlying RSU becomes payable. At the time the underlying RSU becomes payable, the Company has the discretion to pay
any accrued Dividend Equivalents either in cash or in shares of Common Stock. If the underlying RSU does not vest or is forfeited, any amounts credited under this Section 5(a)(i) with respect to the underlying RSU will also fail to vest and be
forfeited.         

(ii)  
   Non-Share Dividends . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of property other than shares, then a number of
additional RSUs shall be credited to you as of the payment date for such dividend or distribution equal to (A) the number of RSUs credited to you as of the record date for such dividend or distribution, multiplied by (B) the Fair Market
Value of such property actually paid as a dividend or distribution on each outstanding share of Common Stock at such payment date, divided by (C) the Fair Market Value of a share at such payment date. Any RSUs credited to you under this
Section 5(a)(ii) shall be subject to the restrictions and conditions that apply to the RSU with respect to which the RSUs are credited and will become payable when the underlying RSU becomes payable. If the underlying RSU does not vest or is
forfeited, any RSUs credited under this Section 5(a)(ii) with respect to the underlying RSU will also fail to vest and be forfeited. You will be eligible to receive Dividend Equivalents on any RSUs credited to you under this
Section 5(a)(ii).         

(iii)  
   Common Stock Dividends and Splits . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of additional shares, or there occurs
a forward split of Common Stock, then a number of additional RSUs shall be credited to you as of the payment date for such dividend or distribution or forward split equal to (A) the number of RSUs credited to you as of the record date for such
dividend or distribution or split, multiplied by (B) the number of additional shares actually paid as a dividend or distribution or issued in such split in respect of each outstanding share of Common Stock. Any RSUs credited to you under this
Section 5(a)(iii) shall be subject to the restrictions and conditions that apply to the RSU with respect to which the RSUs are credited and will become payable when the underlying RSU becomes payable. If the underlying RSU does not vest or is
forfeited, any RSUs credited under this Section 5(a)(iii) with respect to the underlying RSU will also fail to vest and be forfeited. You will be eligible to receive Dividend Equivalents on any RSUs credited to you under this
Section 5(a)(iii).         

(b)  
  The number of your RSUs and other related terms shall be appropriately adjusted, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of your rights with respect to RSUs, to
reflect any changes in the outstanding shares of Common Stock resulting from any event referred to in Plan Section 11(c) or any other  equity restructuring  as defined in FASB ASC Topic 718, taking into account any RSUs credited to
you in connection with such event under Section 5(a).         

(c)  
  When the Dividend Equivalents you receive under this Section 5, if any, become payable to you, they will be compensation (wages) for tax purposes and, if you are a
U.S. taxpayer, will be included on your W-2 form. The Company will be required to withhold applicable taxes on such Dividend Equivalents. The Company may deduct such taxes in the manner set forth in Section 4 hereof.     

6.  
   EFFECT ON OTHER BENEFITS      
  In no event shall the value, at any time, of the RSUs or any other payment under this Agreement be included as compensation or earnings
for purposes of any other compensation, retirement, or benefit plan offered to employees of the Company or any subsidiary unless otherwise specifically provided for in such plan. The RSUs and the underlying shares of Common Stock (or their cash
equivalent), and the income and value of the same are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes including, but not limited to, calculation of any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy or end-of-service
payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits, or similar payments.   
         8   

7.  
   ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NATURE OF PLAN AND RSUs         In accepting the RSUs, you acknowledge, understand and agree that:       

(a)  
  The Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, to
the extent permitted by the Plan;         

(b)  
  The Award of RSUs is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of RSUs, or benefits in lieu of RSUs even if
RSUs have been awarded in the past;         

(c)  
  All decisions with respect to future awards of RSUs or other awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;     

(d)  
  Your participation in the Plan is voluntary;         

(e)  
  The RSUs and the Common Stock subject to the RSUs are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation;     

(f)  
  The future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with certainty;     

(g)  
  No claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the forfeiture of RSUs, resulting from termination of your employment or other service relationship with
the Company, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment
agreement, if any), and in consideration of the grant of the RSUs to which you are otherwise not entitled, you irrevocably agree never to institute any claim against the Company, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or the Employer, waive your
ability, if any, to bring such claim, and release the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate and/or the Employer from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by
participating in the Plan, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agree to execute any and all documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claim;     

(h)  
  Unless otherwise provided in the Plan or by the Company in its discretion, the RSUs and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have
the RSUs or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the shares of the Company; and     

(i)  
  The following provisions apply only if you are providing services outside the United States: (i) the Award and the shares of Common Stock subject to the RSUs are
not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose; and (ii) you acknowledge and agree that neither the Company, the Employer nor any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate
fluctuation between your local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the RSUs or of any amounts due to you pursuant to the settlement of the RSUs or the subsequent sale of any shares of Common Stock acquired upon
settlement.     
         9   

8.  
   NO ADVICE REGARDING GRANT      
  The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your
participation in the Plan or your acquisition or sale of the underlying shares of Common Stock. You are hereby advised to consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Plan before taking any
action related to the Plan.       

9.  
   RIGHT TO CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT         Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate or any specific position or level of employment with the Company
or any subsidiary or affiliate or affect in any way the right of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate to terminate your employment without prior notice at any time for any reason or no reason.   

10.  
   ADMINISTRATION; UNFUNDED OBLIGATIONS         The Committee shall have full authority and discretion, subject only to the express terms of the Plan, to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this
Agreement, and all such Committee determinations shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate, you, and all interested parties. Any provision for distribution in settlement of your RSUs and other obligations
hereunder (including cash amounts set aside under Section 5(a)(i)) shall be by means of bookkeeping entries on the books of the Company and shall not create in you or any beneficiary any right to, or claim against any, specific assets of the
Company, nor result in the creation of any trust or escrow account for you or any beneficiary. You and any of your beneficiaries entitled to any settlement or distribution hereunder shall be a general creditor of the Company.   
   
    You
are required to accept the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement prior to the first vest date in order for you to receive the Award granted to you hereunder. If you wish to decline this Award, you must reject this Agreement prior to the
first vest date. For your benefit, if you have not rejected the Agreement prior to the first vest date, you will be deemed to have automatically accepted this Award and all the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. Deemed acceptance will
allow the shares to be released to you in a timely manner.       
    This
Agreement shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, as amended from time to time, except that, subject to Sections 19 and 22 below, the Award which is the subject of this Agreement may not be materially adversely affected by any amendment or
termination of the Plan approved after the Award Date without your written consent.       

13.  
   SEVERABILITY AND VALIDITY      
  The various provisions of this Agreement are severable, and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise
unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.       

14.  
   GOVERNING LAW, JURISDICTION AND VENUE         This Agreement and Award grant shall be governed by the substantive laws (but not the choice of law rules) of the State of New York. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises under this RSU grant
or Agreement, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of New York, agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of New York, New York, or the federal courts for the United States for the Southern
District of New York, and no other courts where this RSU grant is made and/or performed.   
         10   

This
Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors, assigns, and heirs of the respective parties.       
      You
hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, your Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries for the
exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.          You understand
that the Company, any subsidiary and/or your Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security number or other identification number,
salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing,
administering and managing the Plan ( Data ).          You understand that Data may be transferred to Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which assists in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. You understand that the recipients of the Data may be
located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country (e.g. the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may
request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the Company, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney and other possible recipients which may assist the
Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your
participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the shares of Common Stock received upon vesting of the RSUs may be deposited. You understand that
Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the
storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting your local human resources representative. Further, you understand that you are providing the
consents herein on a purely voluntary basis. If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing
or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you RSUs or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to
participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.     

17.  
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY AND ACCEPTANCE         The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by
electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic systems established and maintained by the Company or a third-party designated by the Company.   
         11   

If you have
received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.   

19.  
   COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS         Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan or this Agreement, unless there is an available exemption from any registration, qualification or other legal requirement applicable to the shares of
Common Stock, you understand that the Company will not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock pursuant to the vesting of the RSUs, if the issuance of such Common Stock shall constitute a violation by you or the Company of any provision of
law or regulation of any governmental authority. Further, you agree that the Company shall have unilateral authority to amend the Plan and the Agreement without your consent to the extent necessary to comply with securities or other laws applicable
to issuance of shares. Any determination by the Company in this regard shall be final, binding and conclusive.       

20.  
   ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND NO ORAL MODIFICATION OR WAIVER         This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties. This Agreement shall not be modified or amended except in writing duly signed by the parties, except that the Company may adopt a
modification or amendment to the Agreement that is not materially adverse to you in writing signed only by the Company. Any waiver of any right or failure to perform under this Agreement shall be in writing signed by the party granting the waiver
and shall not be deemed a waiver of any subsequent failure to perform.       
    Your RSUs shall
be subject to any special provisions set forth in the Addendum to this Agreement for your country, if any. If you relocate to one of the countries included in the Addendum during the Restricted Period, the special provisions for such country shall
apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such provisions is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons. The Addendum, if any, constitutes part of this Agreement.   

22.  
   IMPOSITION OF OTHER REQUIREMENTS         The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the RSUs and on any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines
it is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.   

For the Company   

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company   

By  

12   

I have read this Agreement in its entirety. I understand that this Award has been granted to
provide a means for me to acquire and/or expand an ownership position in Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. I acknowledge and agree that sales of shares will be subject to the Company s policies regulating trading by employees. In accepting this
Award, I hereby agree that Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, or such other vendor as the Company may choose to administer the Plan, may provide the Company with any and all account information for the administration of this Award.   
  I hereby agree to all the terms, restrictions and conditions set forth in the Agreement.   
         13   

Addendum        BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY        SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR RSUs IN CERTAIN
COUNTRIES       This Addendum includes special country-specific terms that apply to residents in the countries listed below. This Addendum is
part of the Agreement. Unless otherwise provided below, capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Agreement. This Addendum also includes information of which you should be aware
with respect to your participation in the Plan. For example, certain individual exchange control reporting requirements may apply upon vesting of the RSUs and/or sale of Common Stock. The information is based on the securities, exchange control and
other laws in effect in the respective countries as of January 2013 and is provided for informational purposes. Such laws are often complex and change frequently, and results may be different based on the particular facts and circumstances. . As a
result, the Company strongly recommends that you do not rely on the information noted herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at the time your
RSUs vest or are settled, or you sell shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan.      In addition, the information is general in nature and
may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of any particular result. Accordingly, you are advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to
your situation.      Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you currently are working, transfer
employment after the RSUs are granted to you, or are considered a resident of another country for local law purposes, the information contained herein for the country you are working in at the time of grant may not be applicable to you, and the
Company shall, in its discretion, determine to what extent the terms and conditions contained herein shall be applicable to you. If you transfer residency and/or employment to another country or are considered a resident of another country listed in
the Addendum after the RSUs are granted to you, the terms and/or information contained for that new country (rather than the original grant country) may be applicable to you.       Algeria        Exchange Control Information.  Proceeds from the sale of Common Stock and
the receipt of any dividends must be repatriated to Algeria.          Argentina    
   Securities Law Information.  Neither the RSUs nor the underlying shares of Common Stock are publicly offered or listed on any stock exchange in
Argentina. The offer is private and not subject to the supervision of any Argentine governmental authority.       Exchange Control
Information . In the event that you transfer proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock or any cash dividends paid on such shares into Argentina within 10 days of receipt (i.e., if the proceeds have not been held in the offshore bank or
brokerage account for at least 10 days prior to transfer), you will be required to deposit 30% of any proceeds in a non-interest bearing deposit account for a 365 day holding period. In any event, the Argentine bank handling the transaction may
request certain documentation in connection with your request to transfer proceeds into Argentina, including evidence of the sale and proof that no funds were remitted out of Argentina to acquire the shares of Common Stock. If the bank determines
that the 10-day rule or any other rule or regulation promulgated by the Argentine Central Bank has not been satisfied, it may require that 30% of the proceeds be placed in a non-interest bearing dollar denominated mandatory deposit account for a
holding period of 365 days. Please note that exchange control regulations in Argentina are subject to frequent change. You are solely responsible for complying with any exchange control laws that may apply to you as a result of participating in the
Plan and/or the transfer of funds in connection with the award. You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding any exchange control obligations that you may have.   
         14   

Australia        Australian Addendum.  The RSUs and your right to participate in the Plan are granted pursuant to the Australian Addendum and are subject to the terms and conditions as stated in the Australian
Addendum, the specific relief instrument granted by the Australian Securities and Investment Commission, the Plan and the Agreement.   
   Securities Law Information.  If you acquire shares of Common Stock pursuant to your RSUs and you offer your shares of Common Stock for sale to a
person or entity resident in Australia, your offer may be subject to disclosure requirements under Australian law. You should obtain legal advice on your disclosure obligations prior to making any such offer.   
   Exchange Control Information.  Exchange control reporting is required for cash transactions exceeding AUD10,000 and for international fund
transfers. The Australian bank assisting with the transaction will file the report for you. If there is no Australian bank involved in the transfer, you will have to file the report.   
   Austria        Exchange
Control Information.  If you hold shares of Common Stock purchased under the Plan outside of Austria (even if you hold them outside of Austria at a branch of an Austrian bank), you will be required to submit a report to the Austrian National Bank
as follows: (i) on a quarterly basis if the value of the Common Stock as of any given quarter exceeds  30,000,000; and (ii) on an annual basis if the value of the Common Stock as of December 31 exceeds  5,000,000.
     When shares of Common Stock are sold, there may be exchange control obligations if the cash proceeds from the sale are held outside Austria.
If the transaction volume of all your cash accounts abroad exceeds  3,000,000, the movements and the balance of all accounts must be reported monthly, as of the last day of the month, on or before the fifteenth day of the following month. If
the transaction value of all cash accounts abroad is less than  3,000,000, no ongoing reporting requirements apply.   
   Belgium        Tax
Reporting Information.  If you are a Belgian resident, you are required to report any security or bank account (including brokerage accounts) you maintain outside of Belgium on your annual tax return.   
   Brazil        Compliance
with Laws.  By accepting the RSUs, you agree that you will comply with Brazilian law when you vest in the RSUs and sell shares of Common Stock. You also agree to report and pay any and all taxes associated with the vesting of the RSUs, the sale
of the shares of Common Stock acquired pursuant to the Plan and the receipt of any dividends or Dividend Equivalents.       Exchange Control
Information.  You must prepare and submit a declaration of assets and rights held outside of Brazil to the Central Bank on an annual basis if you hold assets or rights valued at more than US$100,000. The assets and rights that must be reported
include shares of Common Stock.       Canada        Settlement of RSUs.  Notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, RSUs will be settled in shares of Common Stock only, not cash.   
   Securities Law Information.  You acknowledge and agree that you will only sell shares of Common Stock acquired through participation in the Plan
outside of Canada through the facilities of a stock exchange on which the Common Stock is listed. Currently, the shares of Common Stock are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.   
         15   

Termination of Employment.  This provision replaces the second paragraph of Section 2(h)(v) of
the Agreement:      In the event of your termination of employment or other service relationship (for any reason whatsoever, whether or not later
found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), your right to vest in the RSUs will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of
(1) the date you are no longer actively providing service or (2) the date you receive notice of termination of employment from the Employer, regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under applicable
laws (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively employed for purposes of the RSUs.   
   The following provisions apply if you are resident in Quebec:        Language Acknowledgment       The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this
Agreement, including this Addendum, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be provided to them in English.   
   Consentement relatif   la langue utilis e. Les parties reconnaissent avoir express ment souhait  que la convention
( Agreement ) ainsi que cette Annexe, ainsi que tous les documents, avis et proc dures judiciares,  x cut s, donn s ou intent s en vertu de, ou li s directement ou
indirectement   la pr sente convention, soient r dig s en langue anglaise.        Data Privacy.  This
provision supplements Section 16 of the Agreement:      You hereby authorize the Company, the Employer and their representatives to discuss
with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan. You further authorize the Company and its subsidiaries to disclose and discuss the Plan with their advisors.
You further authorize the Company and its subsidiaries to record such information and to keep such information in your employee file.       Chile        Securities Law Information.  Neither the Company, the RSUs nor the shares of
Common Stock you may acquire upon vesting of your RSUs are registered with the Registry of Securities or under the control of the Chilean Superintendence of Securities.       Exchange Control and Tax Information.  You are not required to repatriate proceeds obtained from the sale of Common Stock or from dividends to Chile; however, if you decide to repatriate proceeds
from the sale of Common Stock and/or dividends and the amount of the proceeds to be repatriated exceeds US$10,000, you acknowledge that you must effect such repatriation through the Formal Exchange Market ( i.e ., a commercial bank or
registered foreign exchange office).      Further, if the value of your aggregate investments held outside of Chile exceeds US$5,000,000
(including the value of Common Stock acquired under the Plan), you must report the status of such investments annually to the Central Bank using Annex 3.1 of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations.   
  Finally, if you hold Common Stock acquired under the Plan outside of Chile, you must inform the Chilean Internal Revenue Service (the  CIRS )
of the details of your investment in the Common Stock by Filing Tax Form 1851  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Investments Held Abroad . Further, if you wish to receive credit against your Chilean income taxes for any taxes paid abroad,
you must report the payment of taxes abroad to the CIRS by filing Tax Form 1853  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Credits for Taxes Paid Abroad . These statements must be submitted electronically through the CIRS website before
March 15 of each year.   
         16   

China        The following provisions apply if you are subject to the exchange control regulations in China, as determined by the Company in its sole discretion:    
   Settlement of RSUs and Sale of Common Stock.  Due to local regulatory requirements, upon the vesting of the RSUs, you agree to the immediate sale
of any shares of Common Stock to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the RSUs. You further agree that the Company is authorized to instruct its designated broker to assist with the mandatory sale of such shares of Common Stock (on your
behalf pursuant to this authorization) and you expressly authorize the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of such shares of Common Stock. You acknowledge that the Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange
for the sale of the shares of Common Stock at any particular price. Upon the sale of the shares of Common Stock, the Company agrees to pay you the cash proceeds from the sale of the Common Stock, less any brokerage fees or commissions and subject to
any obligation to satisfy Tax-Related Items.       Treatment of RSUs Upon Termination of Employment.  Notwithstanding anything in the
Agreement to the contrary, any portion of shares of Common Stock that vests upon termination of your employment will be distributed to you no later than three months from the date of termination, as determined by the Company. If all or a portion of
your RSUs become distributable at some time following your termination of employment, that portion will vest and become distributable immediately upon termination of your employment. Any shares of Common Stock distributed to you according to this
paragraph will be sold immediately upon distribution, as described above.       Exchange Control Information . You understand and agree that,
to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements, you will be required to immediately repatriate to China the cash proceeds from the immediate sale of the shares of Common Stock issued upon the vesting of the RSUs. You further understand
that, under local law, such repatriation of the cash proceeds will be effectuated through a special exchange control account established by the Company or its subsidiaries, and you hereby consent and agree that the proceeds from the sale of shares
of Common Stock acquired under the Plan may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to you. The Company may deliver the proceeds to you in U.S. dollars or local currency at the Company s discretion. If the proceeds are
paid in U.S. dollars, you understand that you will be required to set up a U.S. dollar bank account in China so that the proceeds may be deposited into this account. If the proceeds are converted to local currency, there may be delays in delivering
the proceeds to you and due to fluctuations in the Common Stock trading price and/or the U.S. dollar/PRC exchange rate between the vesting/sale date and (if later) when the sale proceeds can be converted into local currency, the sale proceeds that
you receive may be more or less than the market value of the Common Stock on the vesting/sale date (which is the amount relevant to determining your tax liability). You agree to bear the risk of any currency fluctuation between the date the RSUs
vest and the date of conversion of the proceeds into local currency.        You further agree to comply with any other requirements that may
be imposed by the Company in the future to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in China.       Colombia
       Exchange Control Information.  Investments in assets located outside of Colombia (including Common Stock) are subject to
registration with the Central Bank (Banco de la Rep blica) if the aggregate value of such investments is US$500,000 or more (as of December 31 of the applicable calendar year). Further, upon the sale of any Common Stock that you have
registered with the Central Bank, you must cancel the registration by March 31 of the following year. You may be subject to fines if you fail to cancel such registration.   
         17   

Czech Republic        Exchange Control Information.  The Czech National Bank may require you to fulfill certain notification duties in relation to the RSUs and the opening and maintenance of a foreign account. However,
because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your personal legal advisor prior to the vesting of the RSUs and the sale of shares of Common Stock to ensure compliance with current regulations. It is
your responsibility to comply with any applicable Czech exchange control laws.       Denmark    
   Stock Option Act.  You acknowledge that you have received an Employer Statement in Danish.       Exchange Control Information.  If you establish an account holding shares of Common Stock or an account holding cash outside Denmark, you must report the account to the Danish Tax Administration.
The form may be obtained from a local bank. Please note that these obligations are separate from and in addition to the obligations described below.         Securities/Tax Reporting Information.  If you hold shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan in a brokerage account with a broker or bank outside Denmark, you are required to inform the Danish
Tax Administration about the account. For this purpose, you must file a Form V (Erklaering V) with the Danish Tax Administration. Both you and the broker or bank must sign the Form V. By signing the Form V, the broker or bank undertakes an
obligation, without further request each year and not later than February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the shares of Common Stock
in the account. In the event that the applicable broker or bank with which the account is held does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to report, you acknowledge that you are
solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account and any shares of Common Stock acquired at vesting and held in such account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of your annual income tax return.
By signing the Form V, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account. A sample of the Form V can be found at the following website:  www.skat.dk.       In addition, if you open a brokerage account (or a deposit account with a U.S. bank), the brokerage account likely will be treated as a deposit account because cash can be held in the account. Therefore,
you likely must file a Form K (Erklaering K) with the Danish Tax Administration. The Form K must be signed both by you and by the applicable broker or bank where the account is held. By signing the Form K, the broker/bank undertakes an obligation,
without further request each year and not later than February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the account. In the
event that the applicable financial institution (broker or bank) with which the account is held, does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to report, you acknowledge that you are
solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of your annual income tax return. By signing the Form K, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine
the account. A sample of the Form K can be found at the following website:  www.skat.dk .       Ecuador    
  There are no country-specific provisions.       Egypt        Exchange Control Information.  If you transfer funds into Egypt in connection
with the RSUs, you are required to transfer the funds through a registered bank in Egypt.   
         18   

European Union Member States        Retirement.  The following provision supplements Section 2 and 2(c) of the Agreement:   
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the EU Employment Equality Directive has been implemented in your country of employment or residence or if the Company
receives a legal opinion that there has been a legal judgment and/or legal development in your jurisdiction that likely would result in the favorable Retirement treatment that applies to the RSUs under the Plan being deemed unlawful and/or
discriminatory, the provision above regarding termination of employment due to Retirement shall not be applicable to you.   
   Finland       There are no
country specific provisions.       France        Language Acknowledgement        En signant et renvoyant le pr sent document
d crivant les termes et conditions de votre attribution, vous confirmez ainsi avoir lu et compris les documents relatifs   cette attribution (le Plan et ce Contrat d Attribution) qui vous ont  t  communiqu s
en langue anglaise.       By accepting your RSUs, you confirm having read and understood the documents relating to this grant (the Plan and
this Agreement) which were provided to you in English.       Exchange Control Information.  If you import or export cash ( e.g. ,
sales proceeds received under the Plan) with a value equal to or exceeding  10,000 and do not use a financial institution to do so, you must submit a report to the customs and excise authorities.  
  If you hold shares of Common Stock outside of France or maintain a foreign bank account, you are required to report such to the French tax authorities
when filing your annual tax return. Failure to comply could trigger significant penalties.       Germany    
   Exchange Control Information.  Cross-border payments in excess of  12,500 must be reported monthly to the German Federal Bank. In the event
that you make or receive a payment in excess of this amount, you are responsible for obtaining the appropriate form from the remitting bank and complying with applicable reporting requirements.   
   Greece       There are no
country-specific provisions.           Hong Kong    
   Securities Law Information.   Warning: The RSUs and any shares of Common Stock issued at vesting do not constitute a public offering of
securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to employees of the Company or its subsidiaries. The Agreement, including this Addendum, the Plan and other incidental communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are
not intended to constitute a  prospectus  for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong, nor have the documents been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. The RSUs are intended
only for the personal use of each eligible employee of the Employer, the Company or any subsidiary and may not be distributed to any other person. If you are in any doubt about any of the contents of the Agreement, including this Addendum, or the
Plan, or any other incidental communication materials, you should obtain independent professional advice.     
         19   

Settlement of RSUs and Sale of Common Stock.  Notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or
the Agreement to the contrary, RSUs will be settled in shares of Common Stock only, not cash. In addition, notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, no shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan can be
sold prior to six months from the Award Date.       Nature of Scheme.  The Company specifically intends that the Plan will not be an
occupational retirement scheme for purposes of the Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance ( ORSO ).      
   Hungary       There are no
country-specific provisions.       India        Exchange Control Information.  You must repatriate all proceeds received from the sale of shares of Common Stock and any cash dividends to India within a reasonable time following the sale (i.e.,
within 90 days). You must maintain the foreign inward remittance certificate received from the bank where the foreign currency is deposited in the event that the Reserve Bank of India or the Company or the Employer requests proof of repatriation.
 It is your responsibility to comply with applicable exchange control laws in India.       Effective April 1, 2012, you are required to
declare in your annual tax return (a) any foreign assets held by you or (b) any foreign bank accounts for which you have signing authority.       Ireland        Director Notification Obligation.  If you are a director, shadow director,
or secretary of an Irish subsidiary, you are subject to certain notification requirements under the Companies Act, 1990. Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Irish subsidiary in writing within five business days of receiving or
disposing of an interest ( e.g ., RSUs, Common Stock) in the Company and the number and class of shares of Common Stock or rights to which the interest relates, or within five business days of becoming aware of the event giving rise to the
notification requirement or within five days of becoming a director or secretary if such an interest exists at the time. This disclosure requirement also applies to any rights or shares of Common Stock acquired by your spouse or child(ren) (under
the age of 18).       Israel        Settlement of RSUs and Sale of Common Stock . Due to local regulatory requirements, upon the vesting of the RSUs, you agree to the immediate sale of any shares of Common Stock to be issued to you
upon vesting and settlement of the RSUs. You further agree that the Company is authorized to instruct its designated broker to assist with the mandatory sale of such shares of Common Stock (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization) and you
expressly authorize the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of such shares of Common Stock. You acknowledge that the Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the shares of Common Stock at
any particular price. Upon the sale of the shares of Common Stock, the Company agrees to pay you the cash proceeds from the sale of the Common Stock, less any brokerage fees or commissions and subject to any obligation to satisfy Tax-Related Items.
      Italy    
   Data Privacy Notice.  This section replaces Section 16 of the Agreement:      You understand that the Company and the Employer are the privacy representatives of the Company in Italy and may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home
address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of Common Stock or directorships held in the Company or any subsidiaries, details of all RSUs or any other
entitlement to Common Stock awarded, canceled, vested,   
         20   

unvested or outstanding in your favor, and that the Company and the Employer will process said data and other data lawfully received from third parties ( Personal Data ) for the
exclusive purpose of managing and administering the Plan and complying with applicable laws, regulations and Community legislation. You also understand that providing the Company with Personal Data is mandatory for compliance with laws and is
necessary for the performance of the Plan and that your denial to provide Personal Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. You understand that
Personal Data will not be publicized, but it may be accessible by the Employer as the privacy representative of the Company and within the Employer s organization by its internal and external personnel in charge of processing, and by Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney or any other data processor appointed by the Company. The updated list of processors and of the subjects to which Data are communicated will remain available upon request from the Employer. Furthermore, Personal Data may be
transferred to banks, other financial institutions or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan. You understand that Personal Data may also be transferred to the independent registered public accounting firm engaged by the
Company, and also to the legitimate addressees under applicable laws. You further understand that the Company and its subsidiaries will transfer Personal Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and
management of your participation in the Plan, and that the Company and its subsidiaries may each further transfer Personal Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any
requisite transfer of Personal Data to Morgan Stanley Smith Barney or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan or any proceeds from the sale of such Common Stock. Such recipients may
receive, possess, use, retain and transfer Personal Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that these recipients may be acting as controllers,
processors or persons in charge of processing, as the case may be, according to applicable privacy laws, and that they may be located in or outside the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere, in countries that do not
provide an adequate level of data protection as intended under Italian privacy law.      Should the Company exercise its discretion in suspending
all necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan, it will delete Personal Data as soon as it has accomplished all the necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the
Plan.      You understand that Personal Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated
conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Personal Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree
no. 196/2003.      The processing activity, including communication, the transfer of Personal Data abroad, including outside of the European
Economic Area, as specified herein and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require your consent thereto as the processing is necessary to performance of law and contractual obligations related to implementation, administration and
management of the Plan. You understand that, pursuant to section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, you have the right at any moment to, including, but not limited to, obtain confirmation that Personal Data exists or not, access, verify its
contents, origin and accuracy, delete, update, integrate, correct, block or stop, for legitimate reason, the Personal Data processing. To exercise privacy rights, you should contact the Employer. Furthermore, you are aware that Personal Data will
not be used for direct marketing purposes. In addition, Personal Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting your human resources department.       Plan Document Acknowledgment.  By accepting the RSUs, you acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan, reviewed the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum in their entirety and fully
understand and accept all provisions of the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum.      In addition, you further acknowledge that you have read
and specifically and expressly approve without limitation the following clauses in the Agreement: Section 4 (Responsibility for Taxes); Section 7 (Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and RSUs); Section 8 (No Advice Regarding Grant);
Section 9   
         21   

(Right to Continued Employment); Section 11 (Deemed Acceptance); Section 13 (Severability and Validity); Section 14 (Governing Law, Jurisdiction and Venue); Section 16 (Data
Privacy, as replaced by the above provision in this Addendum); Section 17 (Electronic Delivery and Acceptance); Section 18 (Language); Section 19 (Compliance with Laws and Regulations); Section 20 (Entire Agreement and No Oral
Modification or Waiver); Section 21 (Addendum); and Section 22 (Imposition of Other Requirements).       Additional Tax/Exchange
Control Information.  You are required to report in your annual tax return: (a) any transfers of cash or Common Stock to or from Italy exceeding  10,000 or the equivalent amount in U.S. dollars; (b) any foreign investments or
investments (including proceeds from the sale of Common Stock acquired under the Plan) held outside of Italy exceeding  10,000 or the equivalent amount in U.S. dollars, if the investment may give rise to taxable income in Italy and (c) the
amount of the transfers to and from abroad which have had an impact during the calendar year on your foreign investments or investments held outside of Italy. Under certain circumstances, you may be exempt from requirement under (a) above if
the transfer or investment is made through an authorized broker resident in Italy.      Starting from 2011, a tax on the value of financial assets
held outside of Italy by Italian residents has been introduced. The tax will apply at an annual rate of 0.15% beginning in 2013. The taxable amount will be the fair market value of the financial assets, assessed at the end of the calendar year. For
the purposes of the market value assessment, the documentation issued by the Plan broker may be used.       Japan    
   Offshore Assets Reporting Information.  You will be required to report details of any assets (including any shares of Common Stock acquired under
the Plan) held outside of Japan as of December 31st of each year, to the extent such assets have a total net fair market value exceeding  50,000,000. Such report will be due by March 15th of the following year. You should consult with
your personal tax advisor as to whether the reporting obligation applies to you and whether you will be required to report details of any outstanding RSUs or shares of Common Stock held by you in the report.   
   Korea        Exchange
Control Information.  Korean residents who realize US$500,000 or more from the sale of shares of Common Stock or receipt of dividends in a single transaction are required to repatriate the proceeds to Korea within 18 months of receipt.
      Kuwait    
  There are no country-specific provisions.       Luxembourg        Exchange Control Information.  You are required to report any inward
remittances of funds to the  Banque Central de Luxembourg  and/or the  Service Central de La Statistique et des  tudes  conomiques  within 15 working days following the month during which the transaction occurred. If a
Luxembourg financial institution is involved in the transaction, it generally will fulfill the reporting obligation on your behalf.       Mexico        Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgment.  By accepting this Award, you expressly
recognize that the Company, with offices at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154, U.S.A., is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and that your participation in the Plan and acquisition of shares does not constitute an
employment relationship between you and the Company since you are participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and your sole employer is Bristol-Myers Squibb Company in Mexico ( BMS-Mexico ), not the Company in the United States.
Based on the foregoing, you expressly recognize that the Plan and the benefits that you may derive from participation in the Plan do not establish any   
         22   

rights between you and your employer, BMS-Mexico, and do not form part of the employment conditions and/or benefits provided by BMS-Mexico and any modification of the Plan or its termination
shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of your employment.      You further understand that your participation in
the Plan is as a result of a unilateral and discretionary decision of the Company; therefore, the Company reserves the absolute right to amend and/or discontinue your participation at any time without any liability to you.   
  Finally, you hereby declare that you do not reserve to yourself any action or right to bring any claim against the Company for any compensation or
damages regarding any provision of the Plan or the benefits derived under the Plan, and you therefore grant a full and broad release to the Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates, branches, representation offices, its shareholders, officers, agents
or legal representatives with respect to any claim that may arise.          Pol tica Laboral y
Reconocimiento/Aceptaci n.    Aceptando este Premio1, el participante reconoce que la Compa  a, with offices at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154, U.S.A., es el  nico responsable de la
administraci n del Plan y que la participaci n del Participante en el mismo y la adquisicion de acciones no constituye de ninguna manera una relaci n laboral entre el Participante y la Compa  a, toda vez que la
participaci n del participante en el Plan deriva  nicamente de una relaci n comercial con la Compa  a, reconociendo expresamente que el  nico empleador del participante lo es Bristol-Myers Squibb Company en
Mexico ( BMS-Mexico ), no es la Compa  a en los Estados Unidos. Derivado de lo anterior, el participante expresamente reconoce que el Plan y los beneficios que pudieran derivar del mismo no establecen ning n derecho
entre el participante y su empleador, BMS-M xico, y no forman parte de las condiciones laborales y/o prestaciones otorgadas por BMS-M xico, y expresamente el participante reconoce que cualquier modificaci n el Plan o la
terminaci n del mismo de manera alguna podr  ser interpretada como una modificaci n de los condiciones de trabajo del participante.        Asimismo, el participante entiende que su participaci n en el Plan es resultado de la decisi n unilateral y discrecional de la Compa  a, por lo tanto, la
Compa  a. Se reserva el derecho absoluto para modificar y/o terminar la participaci n del participante en cualquier momento, sin ninguna responsabilidad para el participante.    
   Finalmente, el participante manifiesta que no se reserva ninguna acci n o derecho que origine una demanda en contra de la
Compa  a, por cualquier compensaci n o da o en relaci n con cualquier disposici n del Plan o de los beneficios derivados del mismo, y en consecuencia el participante otorga un amplio y total finiquito a la
Compa  a, sus entidades relacionadas, afiliadas, sucursales, oficinas de representaci n, sus accionistas, directores, agentes y representantes legales con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera surgir.    
   Netherlands    
   Insider-Trading Notification.  You should be aware of the Dutch insider-trading rules, which may impact the sale of shares of Common Stock issued
to you at settlement of the RSUs. In particular, you may be prohibited from effectuating certain transactions involving Common Stock if you have inside information about the Company.      Under Article 5:56 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, anyone who has  inside information  related to an issuing company is prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in or
from the Netherlands.  Inside information  is defined as knowledge of specific information concerning the issuing company to which the securities relate or the trade in securities issued by such company, which has not been made public and
which, if published, would reasonably be expected to affect the share price, regardless of the development of the price. The insider could be any employee of a subsidiary in the Netherlands who has inside information as described herein.   

1  
   El t rmino  Premio  se refiere a la palabra  Award.       
         23   

Given the broad scope of the definition of inside information, certain employees working at a subsidiary in
the Netherlands may have inside information and, thus, would be prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in the Netherlands at a time when they have such inside information.      By accepting the RSUs and the underlying shares of Common Stock, you acknowledge having read and understood the notification above and acknowledge that it is your responsibility to comply with the Dutch
insider trading rules, as discussed herein.      If you are uncertain whether the insider-trading rules apply to you, you should consult your
personal legal advisor.       Norway       There are no country-specific provisions.       Peru    
   Securities Law Information.  The grant of RSUs is considered a private offering in Peru; therefore, it is not subject to registration.   
   Poland        Exchange
Control Information.  Polish residents holding foreign securities (including shares of Common Stock) and maintaining accounts abroad must report information to the National Bank of Poland. Specifically, if the aggregate value of shares and cash
held in such foreign accounts exceeds PLN 7 million, Polish residents must file reports on the transactions and balances of the accounts on a quarterly basis on special forms that are available on the website of the National Bank of Poland. In
addition, Polish residents are required to transfer funds ( i.e ., in connection with the sale of shares of Common Stock) through a bank account in Poland if the transferred amount in any single transaction exceeds a specified threshold
(currently  15,000). If you are a Polish resident, you must also store all documents connected with any foreign exchange transactions you engage in for a period of five years, as measured from the end of the year in which such transaction
occurred. You should consult with your personal legal advisor to determine what you must do to fulfill any applicable reporting duties.       Portugal        Language Consent.  You hereby expressly declare that you have full
knowledge of the English language and have read, understood and fully accepted and agreed with the terms and conditions established in the Plan and the Agreement.       Conhecimento da Lingua. Voc  expressamente declara ter pleno conhecimento do idioma ingl s e ter lido, entendido e totalmente aceito e concordou com os termos e condi  es
estabelecidas no plano e no acordo.        Exchange Control Information.  If you acquire shares of Common Stock under the Plan and do not
hold the shares with a Portuguese financial intermediary, you may need to file a report with the Portuguese Central Bank. If the shares are held by a Portuguese financial intermediary, it will file the report for you.     
   Puerto Rico       There are
no country-specific provisions.   
         24   

Romania        Exchange Control Information . If you deposit the proceeds from the sale of your shares of Common Stock in a bank account in Romania, you may have to provide the Romanian bank through which the
operations are effected with appropriate documentation regarding the receipt of the income. You should consult with a personal legal advisor to determine whether you will be required to submit such documentation to the Romanian bank.   
   Russia        Exchange
Control Information  .  You acknowledge that you must repatriate the proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock and any dividends/Dividend Equivalents received in relation to the RSUs within a reasonably short time of receipt. Such
amounts must be initially credited to you through a foreign currency account opened in your name at an authorized bank in Russia. After the funds are initially received in Russia, they may be further remitted to foreign banks subject to the
following limitations: (i) the foreign account may be opened only for individuals; (ii) the foreign account may not be used for business activities; and (iii) you must give notice to the Russian tax authorities about the
opening/closing of each foreign account within one month of the account opening/closing.       Securities Law Information.  These materials
do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia nor do they constitute placement of the shares of Common Stock in Russia. The issuance of Common Stock pursuant to the RSUs described herein has not and will not be registered in
Russia and hence, the shares of Common Stock described herein may not be admitted or used for offering, placement or public circulation in Russia.       U.S. Transaction.  Any shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the RSUs shall be delivered to you through a brokerage account in the U.S. You may hold shares of Common Stock in your brokerage
account in the U.S.; however, in no event will shares issued to you and/or share certificates or other instruments be delivered to you in Russia. You are not permitted to make any public advertising or announcements regarding the RSUs or Common
Stock in Russia, or promote these shares to other Russian legal entities or individuals, and you are not permitted to sell or otherwise dispose of Common Stock directly to other Russian legal entities or individuals. You are permitted to sell shares
of Common Stock only on the New York Stock Exchange and only through a U.S. broker.       Data Privacy Consent.  This section replaces
Section 16 of the Agreement:      You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other
form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, your Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.   
  You understand that the Company, any subsidiary and/or your Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your
name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to
shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ( Data ).      You understand that Data may be transferred to Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which assists in the implementation,
administration and management of the Plan. You understand that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States, or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country ( e.g ., the United States) may have different data privacy laws
and protections than your country. You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the International Compensation and Benefits
Group. You authorize the Company, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney and other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and
transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other
third party with whom the shares of Common Stock received upon vesting of the RSUs may be deposited. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan.   
         25   

You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request
additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case and without cost, by contacting in writing the International Compensation and Benefits
Group. Further, you understand that you are providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis. If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be
adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you RSUs or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, you understand that refusing or
withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact the International Compensation and
Benefits Group.       Labor Law Information . You acknowledge that if you continue to hold shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan
after an involuntary termination of your employment, you will not be eligible to receive unemployment benefits in Russia.   
   Saudi Arabia    
   Securities Law Information.  This document may not be distributed in the Kingdom except to such persons as are permitted under the Offers of
Securities Regulations issued by the Capital Market Authority.      The Capital Market Authority does not make any representation as to the
accuracy or completeness of this document, and expressly disclaims any liability whatsoever for any loss arising from, or incurred in reliance upon, any part of this document. Prospective purchasers of the securities offered hereby should conduct
their own due diligence on the accuracy of the information relating to the securities. If you do not understand the contents of this document you should consult an authorized financial advisor.   
   Singapore        Securities
Law Information   .   The grant of RSUs is being made in reliance of section 273(1)(f) of the Securities and Futures Act (Chap. 289) ( SFA ) for which it is exempt from the prospectus and registration requirements under the
SFA. The Plan has not been lodged or registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore. You should note that the RSUs are subject to section 257 of the SFA and you will not be able to make (i) any subsequent sale of the shares
of Common Stock in Singapore or (ii) any offer of such subsequent sale of the shares of Common Stock subject to the RSUs in Singapore, unless such sale or offer is made pursuant to the exemptions under Part XIII Division (1) Subdivision
(4) (other than section 280) of the SFA (Chapter 289, 2006 Ed.).       Director Notification Requirement . If you are a director,
associate director or shadow director of a Singapore company, you are subject to certain notification requirements under the Singapore Companies Act. Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Singapore company in writing when you
receive an interest ( e.g. , RSUs, Common Stock) in the Company or any related companies. In addition, you must notify the Singapore company when you sell shares of the Company or any related company (including when you sell shares of
Common Stock acquired pursuant to your RSUs). These notifications must be made within two business days of acquiring or disposing of any interest in the Company or any related company. In addition, a notification must be made of your interests in
the Company or any related company within two business days of becoming a director.       Insider Trading Notification.  You should be aware
of the Singapore insider trading rules, which may impact the acquisition or disposal of shares or rights to shares of Common Stock under the Plan. Under the Singapore insider trading rules, you are prohibited from acquiring or selling shares of
Common Stock or rights to shares of Common Stock ( e.g ., RSUs under the Plan) when you are in possession of information which is not generally available and which you know or should know will have a material effect on the price of Common Stock
once such information is generally available.   
         26   

South Africa        Exchange Control Information.  You are solely responsible for complying with applicable South African exchange control regulations. Because the exchange control regulations change frequently and
without notice, you should consult your legal advisor prior to the acquisition or sale of shares of Common Stock under the Plan to ensure compliance with current regulations. As noted, it is your responsibility to comply with South African exchange
control laws, and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from failure to comply with applicable laws.       Spain        Exchange Control Information.  To participate in the Plan, you must comply
with exchange control regulations in Spain. When receiving foreign currency payments exceeding  50,000 derived from the ownership of shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the RSUs ( i.e. , dividends, Dividend Equivalents or sale
proceeds), you must inform the financial institution receiving the payment of the basis upon which such payment is made. You will need to provide the institution with the following information: (i) your name, address, and fiscal identification
number; (ii) the name and corporate domicile of the Company; (iii) the amount of the payment and the currency used; (iv) the country of origin; (v) the reasons for the payment; and (vi) further information that may be
required.      If you acquire shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the RSUs and wish to import the ownership title of such shares
( i.e ., share certificates) into Spain, you must declare the importation of such securities to the Spanish  Direccion General de Pol tica Comercial y de Inversiones Extranjeras  (the  DGPCIE ). Generally, the declaration
must be made in January for shares of Common Stock acquired or sold during (or owned as of December 31 of) the prior year; however, if the value of shares acquired or sold exceeds  1,502,530 (or you hold 10% or more of the share capital of
the Company or such other amount that would entitle you to join the Company s board of directors), the declaration must be filed within one month of the acquisition or sale, as applicable. In addition, you also must file a declaration of
ownership of foreign securities with the Directorate of Foreign Transactions each January.      Further, effective January 1, 2013, to the
extent that you hold assets (e.g., cash or shares of Common Stock held in a bank or brokerage account) or rights (e.g., the RSUs) outside of Spain with a value in excess of  20,000 (on a per-asset basis) as of December 31 each year, you
will be required to report information on such rights and assets on your tax return for such year       Labor Law Acknowledgment.  This
provision supplements Sections 2(g) and 7 of the Agreement:        By accepting the RSUs, you consent to participation in the Plan and
acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan document.      You understand and agree that, as a condition of the grant of the RSUs,
except as provided for in Section 2 of the Agreement, your termination of employment for any reason (including for the reasons listed below) will automatically result in the forfeiture of any RSUs that have not vested on the date of your
termination.      In particular, you understand and agree that, unless otherwise provided in the Agreement, the RSUs will be forfeited without
entitlement to the underlying shares of Common Stock or to any amount as indemnification in the event of a termination of your employment prior to vesting by reason of, including, but not limited to: resignation, disciplinary dismissal adjudged to
be with cause, disciplinary dismissal adjudged or recognized to be without cause, individual or collective layoff on objective grounds, whether adjudged to be with cause or adjudged or recognized to be without cause, material modification of the
terms of employment under Article 41 of the Workers  Statute, relocation under Article 40 of the Workers  Statute, Article 50 of the Workers  Statute, unilateral withdrawal by the Employer, and under Article 10.3 of Royal Decree
1382/1985.   
         27   

Furthermore, you understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and discretionally decided to
grant RSUs under the Plan to individuals who may be employees of the Company or a subsidiary. The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or otherwise bind
the Company or any subsidiary on an ongoing basis, other than as expressly set forth in the Agreement. Consequently, you understand that the RSUs are granted on the assumption and condition that the RSUs and the shares of Common Stock underlying the
RSUs shall not become a part of any employment or service contract (either with the Company, the Employer or any subsidiary) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other
right whatsoever. In addition, you understand that the RSUs would not be granted to you but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, you acknowledge and freely accept that, should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or
should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then any Award of RSUs shall be null and void.       Securities Law Information.  The
RSUs and the Common Stock described in the Agreement and this Addendum do not qualify under Spanish regulations as securities. No  offer of securities to the public,  as defined under Spanish law, has taken place or will take place in the
Spanish territory. The Agreement (including this Addendum) has not been nor will it be registered with the  Comisi n Nacional del Mercado de Valores , and does not constitute a public offering prospectus.   
   Sweden       There are no
country-specific provisions.       Switzerland        Securities Law Information.  The RSUs offered are considered a private offering in Switzerland; therefore, they are not subject to registration in Switzerland.   
   Taiwan        Exchange
Control Information.  You may remit foreign currency (including proceeds from the sale of Common Stock) into or out of Taiwan up to US$5,000,000 per year without special permission. If the transaction amount is TWD500,000 or more in a single
transaction, you must submit a Foreign Exchange Transaction Form to the remitting bank and provide supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank.       Thailand        Exchange Control Information.  If the proceeds from the sale of shares of
Common Stock or the receipt of dividends are equal to or greater than US$50,000 or more in a single transaction, you must repatriate the proceeds to Thailand immediately upon receipt and convert the funds to Thai Baht or deposit the proceeds in a
foreign currency deposit account maintained by a bank in Thailand within 360 days of remitting the proceeds to Thailand. In addition you must report the inward remittance to the Bank of Thailand on a foreign exchange transaction form. If you fail to
comply with these obligations, you may be subject to penalties assessed by the Bank of Thailand. Because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your personal advisor before selling shares of Common
Stock to ensure compliance with current regulations. You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Thailand, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from
your failure to comply with applicable laws.       Tunisia        Securities Law Information.  All proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock must be repatriated to Tunisia. You should consult your personal advisor before taking action with respect to
remittance of proceeds into Tunisia. You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Tunisia. In addition, if you hold assets abroad in excess of a certain amount, you must report the assets to the Central Bank of
Tunisia.   
         28   

Turkey        Securities Law Information.  Under Turkish law, you are not permitted to sell shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan in Turkey. The shares of Common Stock are currently traded on the New
York Stock Exchange, which is located outside of Turkey, under the ticker symbol  BMY  and the shares of Common Stock may be sold through this exchange.       United Arab Emirates        Securities Law Information.  The Plan is only being offered to
qualified employees and is in the nature of providing equity incentives to employees of the Company or its subsidiary or affiliate in the UAE. Any documents related to the Plan, including the Plan, Plan prospectus and other grant documents
( Plan Documents ), are intended for distribution only to such employees and must not be delivered to, or relied on by, any other person. Prospective purchasers of the securities offered should conduct their own due diligence on the
securities. If you do not understand the contents of the Plan Documents, you should consult an authorized financial adviser.      The Emirates
Securities and Commodities Authority has no responsibility for reviewing or verifying any Plan Documents nor taken steps to verify the information set out in them, and thus, are not responsible for such documents.   
   United Kingdom    
   Responsibility for Taxes.  This provision supplements Section 4 of the Agreement:      You agree that, if you do not pay or the Employer or the Company does not withhold from you the full amount of Tax-Related Items that you owe at vesting and settlement of the RSUs, or the release or
assignment of the RSUs for consideration, or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the RSUs (the  Taxable Event ) within 90 days after the Taxable Event, or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K.
Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, then the amount of income tax that should have been withheld shall constitute a loan owed by you to the Employer, effective 90 days after the Taxable Event. You agree that the loan will bear interest at
Her Majesty s Revenue   Customs  ( HMRC ) official rate and will be immediately due and repayable by you, and the Company and/or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by withholding the funds from salary,
bonus or any other funds due to you by the Employer, by withholding in shares of Common Stock issued upon vesting of your RSUs or from the cash proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock or by demanding cash or a cheque from you. You also
authorize the Company to delay the issuance of any shares of Common Stock unless and until the loan is repaid in full.      Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if you are an officer or executive director (as within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), the terms of the immediately foregoing provision will not apply. In the event that you are
an officer or executive director and the income tax that is due is not collected from or paid by you within 90 days of the Taxable Event, the amount of any uncollected income tax may constitute a benefit to you on which additional income tax and
national insurance contributions may be payable. You will be responsible for reporting and paying any income tax due on this additional benefit directly to the HMRC under the self-assessment regime and for reimbursing the Company or the Employer (as
appropriate) for the value of any employee national insurance contributions due on this additional benefit.       Venezuela
       Securities Law Information.  The RSUs granted under the Plan and the shares of Common Stock issued under the Plan are offered as a
personal, private, exclusive transaction and are not subject to Venezuelan securities regulations.   
         29   

Exchange Control Information.  Exchange control restrictions may limit the ability to remit funds out
of Venezuela in order to receive shares of Common Stock upon vesting of the RSUs, or remit funds into Venezuela following the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired upon vesting of the RSUs. The Company reserves the right to restrict settlement of
the RSUs or to amend or cancel the RSUs at any time in order to comply with applicable exchange control laws in Venezuela. Any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan are intended to be an investment rather than for the resale and conversion
of the shares into foreign currency. You are responsible for complying with exchange control laws in Venezuela and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable
laws. Because exchange control laws and regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult with you personal legal advisor before accepting the RSUs and before selling any shares of Common Stock acquired upon vesting of the RSUs to
ensure compliance with current regulations.   
         30   

</EX-10.PP>

<EX-10.QQ>
 17
 d450621dex10qq.htm
 EX-10.QQ

EX-10.qq 

Exhibit 10qq    

RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AGREEMENT    
  UNDER THE BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY      2012 STOCK AWARD AND INCENTIVE PLAN      BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY, a Delaware
corporation (the  Company ), has granted to you the Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs ) specified in the Grant Summary, which is incorporated into this Restricted Stock Units Agreement (the  Agreement ) and deemed to be a
part hereof. The RSUs have been granted to you under Section 6(e) of the 2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), on the terms and conditions specified in the Grant Summary and this Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this
Agreement that are not specifically defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.       

1.  
   RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARD         The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the  Committee ) has granted to you as of the Award Date an Award of RSUs as
designated herein subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan. Each RSU shall represent the conditional right to receive, upon settlement of the RSU, one share of Bristol-Myers Squibb Common Stock
( Common Stock ) or, at the discretion of the Company, the cash equivalent thereof (subject to any tax withholding as described in Section 4). RSUs include the right to receive dividend equivalents as specified in Section 5
( Dividend Equivalents and Adjustments ). The purpose of such Award is to motivate and retain you as an employee of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, to encourage you to continue to give your best efforts for the Company s
future success, and to increase your proprietary interest in the Company. Except as may be required by law, you are not required to make any payment (other than payments for taxes pursuant to Section 4 hereof) or provide any consideration other
than the rendering of future services to the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.       

2.  
   RESTRICTIONS, FORFEITURES, AND SETTLEMENT         Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2, RSUs shall be subject to the restrictions and conditions set forth herein during the Restricted Period (as defined below). Vesting of the RSUs is
conditioned upon you remaining continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company from the Award Date until the relevant vesting date, subject to the provisions of this Section 2. Assuming satisfaction of such employment
conditions, 25% of the RSUs shall vest on each of the first four anniversaries of the Award Date. In the event you attain age 65 while still an employee of the Company or a subsidiary, all unvested RSUs held by you at least one year from the Award
Date will become vested and non-forfeitable, and thereafter, so long as you remain an employee of the Company or a subsidiary after attaining age 65, all other RSUs will become 100% vested one year from the Award Date.   

(a)  
   Nontransferability . During the Restricted Period and any further period prior to settlement of your RSUs, you may not sell, transfer, pledge or assign any of the
RSUs or your rights relating thereto.         

(b)  
     Time of Settlement . RSUs shall be settled promptly upon expiration of the Restricted Period without forfeiture of the RSUs ( i.e ., upon
vesting), but in any event within 60 days after expiration of the Restricted Period, by delivery of one share of Common Stock for      
         1   

each RSU being settled, or, at the discretion of the Company, the cash equivalent thereof; provided, however, that settlement of an RSU shall be subject to Plan Section 11(k), including if
applicable the six-month delay rule in Plan Sections 11(k)(i)(C)(2) and 11(k)(i)(G). ( Note: This rule may apply to any portion of the RSUs that vest after the time you become Retirement eligible under the Plan, and could apply in other cases as
well ). Settlement of RSUs which directly or indirectly result from non-cash Dividend Equivalents on RSUs or adjustments to RSUs shall occur at the time of settlement of, and subject to the restrictions and conditions that apply to, the granted
RSU. Settlement of cash amounts which directly or indirectly result from Dividend Equivalents on RSUs or adjustments to RSUs shall be included as part of your regular payroll payment as soon as administratively practicable after the settlement date
for the underlying RSUs, and subject to the restrictions and conditions that apply to, the granted RSU. Until shares are delivered to you in settlement of RSUs, you shall have none of the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to the
shares issuable in settlement of the RSUs, including the right to vote the shares and receive actual dividends and other distributions on the underlying shares of Common Stock (you are entitled to Dividend Equivalents, however). Shares of stock
issuable in settlement of RSUs shall be delivered to you upon settlement in certificated form or in such other manner as the Company may reasonably determine. At that time, you will have all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company.

(c)  
   Retirement and Death . In the event of your Retirement (as that term is defined in the Plan; however, if you attain age 65 before Retirement, RSUs held for at
least one year will have vested prior to Retirement) or your death while employed by the Company prior to the end of the Restricted Period, you, or your estate, shall be deemed vested and entitled to settlement of ( i.e ., the Restricted Period
shall expire with respect to) a proportionate number of the total number of RSUs granted (taking into account RSUs previously vested), provided that you have been continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for at least one
year following the Award Date and your employment has not been terminated by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company. If you are employed in the United States
(including in Puerto Rico), and you are only eligible for Retirement pursuant to Plan Section 2(x)(iii), you shall be entitled to the pro rata vesting described in this Section 2(c) only if you execute and do not revoke a release in favor
of the Company and its predecessors, successors, affiliates, subsidiaries, directors and employees in a form satisfactory to the Company and, where deemed applicable by the Company, you execute a non-compete and/or a non-solicitation agreement; if
you fail to execute the non-compete or non-solicitation agreement, or fail to execute or revoke the release, you shall forfeit any RSUs that are unvested as of the date your employment terminates. The formula for determining the proportionate number
of your RSUs to become vested and non-forfeitable upon your Retirement or death is available by request from the Office of the Corporate Secretary at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154. In the event of your death prior to the delivery of
shares in settlement of RSUs (not previously forfeited), shares in settlement of your RSUs shall be delivered to your estate, upon presentation to the Committee of letters testamentary or other documentation satisfactory to the Committee, and your
estate shall succeed to any other rights provided hereunder in the event of your death.         

(d)  
     Termination not for Misconduct/Detrimental Conduct . In the event your employment is terminated by the Company for reasons other than misconduct
or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company, and you are not eligible for Retirement, you shall be entitled to settlement of ( i.e ., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) a proportionate number of the
total number of RSUs granted (taking into account RSUs previously vested), provided that you have been continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for at least one year following the Award Date and your
     
         2   

employment has not been terminated by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company. If you are employed in the
United States (including in Puerto Rico), and you are not eligible for Retirement (as that term is defined in Plan Sections 2(x)(i) or 2(x)(ii)), you shall be entitled to the pro rata vesting described in this Section 2(d) only if you execute
and do not revoke a release in favor of the Company and its predecessors, successors, affiliates, subsidiaries, directors and employees in a form satisfactory to the Company and, where deemed applicable by the Company, you execute a non-compete
and/or a non-solicitation agreement; if you fail to execute the non-compete or non-solicitation agreement, or fail to execute or revoke the release, you shall forfeit any RSUs that are unvested as of the date your employment terminates. The formula
for determining the proportionate number of RSUs you are entitled to under this Section 2(d) is available by request from the Office of the Corporate Secretary at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154.     

(e)  
   Disability . In the event you become Disabled (as that term is defined below), for the period during which you continue to be deemed to be employed by the Company
or a subsidiary ( i.e ., the period during which you receive Disability benefits), you will not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of the RSUs. Upon the termination of your receipt of Disability benefits, (i) you will not
be deemed to have terminated employment if you return to employment status, and (ii) if you do not return to employment status, you will be deemed to have terminated employment at the date of cessation of payments to you under all disability
pay plans of the Company and its subsidiaries, with such termination treated for purposes of the RSUs as a Retirement, death, or voluntary termination based on your circumstances at the time of such termination. For purposes of this Agreement,
 Disability  or  Disabled  shall mean qualifying for and receiving payments under a disability plan of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate either in the United States or in a jurisdiction outside of the United States, and
in jurisdictions outside of the United States shall also include qualifying for and receiving payments under a mandatory or universal disability plan or program managed or maintained by the government.     

(f)  
   Qualifying Termination Following Change in Control . In the event your employment is terminated by reason of a Qualifying Termination during the Protected Period
following a Change in Control, the Restricted Period and all remaining restrictions shall expire and the RSUs shall be deemed fully vested.         

(g)  
   Other Termination of Employment . In the event of your voluntary termination, or termination by the Company or a subsidiary for misconduct or other conduct deemed
by the Company to be detrimental to the interests of the Company, you shall forfeit all unvested RSUs on the date of termination.         

(h)  
   Other Terms .         

(i)  
  In the event that you fail promptly to pay or make satisfactory arrangements as to the Tax-Related Items as provided in Section 4, all RSUs subject to restriction
shall be forfeited by you and shall be deemed to be reacquired by the Company.         

(ii)  
  You may, at any time prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, waive all rights with respect to all or some of the RSUs by delivering to the Company a written
notice of such waiver.         

(iii)  
  Termination of employment includes any event if immediately thereafter you are no longer an employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, subject to
Section 2(i) hereof. References in this Section 2 to employment by the Company include employment by a subsidiary of the Company. Termination of employment means an event after which you are no longer employed by the Company or any
subsidiary of the Company. Such an event could include the disposition of a subsidiary or business unit by the Company or a subsidiary.     
         3   

(iv)  
  Upon any termination of your employment, any RSUs as to which the Restricted Period has not expired at or before such termination shall be forfeited, subject to
Sections 2(c)-(f) hereof. Other provisions of this Agreement notwithstanding, in no event will an RSU that has been forfeited thereafter vest or be settled.     

(v)  
  In the event of termination of your employment or other service relationship (for any reason whatsoever, whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of
employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or determined by the Company, your right to vest in the RSU under the Plan, if any, will
terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively providing services and will not be extended by any notice period ( e.g ., active services would not include any contractual notice period or any period of  garden
leave  or similar period mandated under employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively
providing services for purposes of your Award of RSUs.         

(i)  
  The following events shall not be deemed a termination of employment:         

(i)  
  A transfer of you from the Company to a subsidiary, or vice versa, or from one subsidiary to another;     

(ii)  
  A leave of absence, duly authorized in writing by the Company, for military service or sickness or for any other purpose approved by the Company if the period of such
leave does not exceed ninety (90) days; and         

(iii)  
  A leave of absence in excess of ninety (90) days, duly authorized in writing, by the Company, provided your right to reemployment is guaranteed either by a statute
or by contract.        However, your failure to return to active service with the Company or a subsidiary at the end of
an approved leave of absence shall be deemed a termination of employment, subject to local law. During a leave of absence as defined in (ii) or (iii), although you will be considered to have been continuously employed by the Company or a
subsidiary and not to have had a termination of employment under this Section 2, the Committee may specify that such leave period shall not be counted in determining the period of employment for purposes of the vesting of the RSUs. In such
case, the vesting dates for unvested RSUs shall be extended by the length of any such leave of absence.       

3.  
   FORFEITURE IN THE EVENT OF COMPETITION AND/OR SOLICITATION OR OTHER ACTS         You acknowledge that your continued employment with the Company or a subsidiary and the grant of RSUs is sufficient consideration for this Agreement, including, without limitation, the restrictions
imposed upon you by this Section 3.       

(a)  
  By accepting the RSUs, you expressly agree and covenant that during the Restricted Period (as defined below) and the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period (as
defined below), you shall not, without the prior consent of the Company, directly or indirectly:         

(i)  
  own or have any financial interest in a Competitive Business (as defined below), except that nothing in this clause shall prevent you from owning one percent or less of
the outstanding securities of any entity whose securities are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange (including NASDAQ) or an equivalent foreign exchange;     
         4   

(ii)  
  be actively connected with a Competitive Business by managing, operating, controlling, being an employee or consultant (or accepting an offer to be an employee or
consultant) or otherwise advising or assisting a Competitive Business in such a way that such connection might result in an increase in value or worth of any product, technology or service, that competes with any product, technology or service upon
which you worked or about which you became familiar as a result of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate. You may, however, be actively connected with a Competitive Business after your employment with the Company or a
subsidiary terminates for any reason, so long as your connection to the business does not involve any product, technology or service, that competes with any product, technology or service upon which you worked or about which you became familiar as a
result of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary and the Company is provided written assurances of this fact from the Competing Company prior to your beginning such connection;     

(iii)  
  take any action that might divert any opportunity from the Company or any of its affiliates, successors or assigns (the  Related Parties ) that is within the
scope of the present or future operations or business of any Related Parties;         

(iv)  
  employ, solicit for employment, advise or recommend to any other person that they employ or solicit for employment or form an association with any person who is
employed by the Company or its Related Parties or who has been employed by the Company or its Related Parties within one year of the date your employment with the Company or a subsidiary ceased for any reason whatsoever;     

(v)  
  contact, call upon or solicit any customer of the Company, or attempt to divert or take away from the Company the business of any of its customers;

(vi)  
  contact, call upon or solicit any prospective customer of the Company that you became aware of or were introduced to in the course of your duties for the Company or its
Related Parties, or otherwise divert or take away from the Company the business of any prospective customer of the Company; or         

(vii)  
  engage in any activity that is harmful to the interests of the Company, including without limitation, any conduct during the term of your employment that violates the
Company s Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics, securities trading policy and other policies.         

(b)  
   Forfeiture . If the Company determines that you have violated any provisions of Section 3(a) above during the Restricted Period or the Non-Competition and
Non-Solicitation Period, then you agree and covenant that:         

(i)  
  any unvested portion of the RSUs shall be immediately rescinded;         

(ii)  
  you shall automatically forfeit any rights you may have with respect to the RSUs as of the date of such determination;     

(iii)  
  if any part of the RSUs vests within the twelve-month period immediately preceding a violation of Section 3(a) above (or following the date of any such violation),
upon the Company s demand, you shall immediately deliver to it a certificate or certificates for shares of the Company s Common Stock that you acquired upon settlement of such RSUs (or an equivalent number of other shares); and

(iv)  
  the foregoing remedies set forth in this Section 3(b) shall not be the Company s exclusive remedies. The Company reserves all other rights and remedies
available to it at law or in equity.     
         5   

(c)  
   Company Policy . You agree that the Company may recover any incentive-based compensation received by you under this Agreement if such recovery is pursuant to a
clawback or recoupment policy approved by the Committee.         

(d)  
   Definitions . For purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply:     

(i)  
  The Company directly advertises and solicits business from customers wherever they may be found and its business is thus worldwide in scope. Therefore,
 Competitive Business  means any person or entity that engages in any business activity that competes with the Company s business in any way, in any geographic area in which the Company engages in business, including, without
limitation, any state in the United States in which the Company sells or offers to sell its products from time to time.         

(ii)  
   Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period  means the period during which you are employed by the Company and twelve months following the date that you
cease to be employed by the Company for any reason whatsoever.         

(iii)  
   Restricted Period  means, with respect to each RSU, the period from the Award Date until the date such RSU has become vested and non-forfeitable.

(e)  
   Severability . You acknowledge and agree that the period, scope and geographic areas of restriction imposed upon you by the provisions of Section 3 are fair
and reasonable and are reasonably required for the protection of the Company. In the event that all or any part of this Section 3 is held to be unenforceable or invalid, the remaining parts of Section 3 and this Agreement shall
nevertheless continue to be valid and enforceable as though the invalid portions were not a part of this Agreement. If any one of the provisions in Section 3 is held to be excessively broad as to period, scope and geographic areas, any such
provision shall be construed by limiting it to the extent necessary to be enforceable under applicable law.         

(f)  
   Additional Remedies . You acknowledge that breach by you of this Agreement would cause irreparable harm to the Company and that in the event of such breach, the
Company shall have, in addition to monetary damages and other remedies at law, the right to an injunction, specific performance and other equitable relief to prevent violations of your obligations hereunder.     

4.  
   RESPONSIBILITY FOR TAXES      
  You acknowledge that, regardless of any action taken by the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate or your employer ( Employer ),
the ultimate liability for all income tax (including federal, state, local and non-U.S. taxes), social security, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally
applicable to you or deemed by the Company or the Employer to be an appropriate charge to you even if legally applicable to the Company or the Employer ( Tax-Related Items ) is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount
actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate and/or the Employer: (a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in
connection with any aspect of the RSUs, including the grant of the RSUs, the vesting of RSUs, the conversion of the RSUs into shares of Common Stock or the receipt of an equivalent cash payment, the subsequent sale of any shares of Common Stock
acquired at vesting and the receipt of any dividends and/or Dividend Equivalents; and, (b) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the RSUs to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any
particular tax result. Further, if you are subject to Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction between the Award Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as
applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.   
         6   

Prior to the relevant taxable event, you agree to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to
the Company or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items. In this regard, by your acceptance of the RSUs, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to
all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following:       

(a)  
  withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer; or     

(b)  
  withholding from proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired upon settlement of the RSUs either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale
arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent); or         

(c)  
  withholding in shares of Common Stock to be issued upon settlement of the RSUs;        provided, however, if you are a Section 16 officer of the Company under the Exchange Act, then the Company will withhold shares of Common Stock upon the relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as
applicable, unless the use of such withholding method is problematic under applicable tax or securities law or has materially adverse accounting consequences, in which case, the obligation for Tax-Related Items may be satisfied by one or a
combination of methods (a) and (b) above.      Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account
for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates, in which case you will receive a refund of any over-withheld amount in cash and will have
no entitlement to the Common Stock equivalent. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding in shares of Common Stock, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of shares of Common Stock subject to
the vested RSUs, notwithstanding that a number of the shares of Common Stock are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items.      Finally, you agree to pay to the Company or the Employer, including through withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer, any amount of Tax-Related
Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the shares or the
proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock, if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items.      Notwithstanding anything in this Section 4 to the contrary, to avoid a prohibited acceleration under Section 409A, if shares of Common Stock subject to RSUs will be sold on your behalf (or
withheld) to satisfy any Tax-Related Items arising prior to the date of settlement of the RSUs for any portion of the RSUs that is considered nonqualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A, then the number of shares sold on your
behalf (or withheld) shall not exceed the number of shares that equals the liability for Tax-Related Items.       

5.  
   DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS AND ADJUSTMENTS          

(a)  
  Dividend Equivalents shall be paid or credited on RSUs (other than RSUs that, at the relevant record date, previously have been settled or forfeited) as follows, except
that the Committee may specify an alternative treatment from that specified in (i), (ii), or (iii) below for any dividend or distribution:         

(i)  
     Cash Dividends . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of cash, then you will be credited, as
of the payment date for such dividend or distribution, an amount equal to the number of RSUs credited to you as of the record date for such dividend or distribution multiplied by the amount that would have been paid as a dividend or distribution on
each outstanding share of Common Stock at such payment date. Any amounts credited under this Section 5(a)(i) shall be subject to the restrictions and conditions that apply to the RSU with
     
         7   

respect to which the amounts are credited and will become payable when the underlying RSU becomes payable. At the time the underlying RSU becomes payable, the Company has the discretion to pay
any accrued Dividend Equivalents either in cash or in shares of Common Stock. If the underlying RSU does not vest or is forfeited, any amounts credited under this Section 5(a)(i) with respect to the underlying RSU will also fail to vest and be
forfeited.         

(ii)  
   Non-Share Dividends . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of property other than shares, then a number of
additional RSUs shall be credited to you as of the payment date for such dividend or distribution equal to (A) the number of RSUs credited to you as of the record date for such dividend or distribution, multiplied by (B) the Fair Market
Value of such property actually paid as a dividend or distribution on each outstanding share of Common Stock at such payment date, divided by (C) the Fair Market Value of a share at such payment date. Any RSUs credited to you under this
Section 5(a)(ii) shall be subject to the restrictions and conditions that apply to the RSU with respect to which the RSUs are credited and will become payable when the underlying RSU becomes payable. If the underlying RSU does not vest or is
forfeited, any RSUs credited under this Section 5(a)(ii) with respect to the underlying RSU will also fail to vest and be forfeited. You will be eligible to receive Dividend Equivalents on any RSUs credited to you under this
Section 5(a)(ii).         

(iii)  
   Common Stock Dividends and Splits . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of additional shares, or there occurs
a forward split of Common Stock, then a number of additional RSUs shall be credited to you as of the payment date for such dividend or distribution or forward split equal to (A) the number of RSUs credited to you as of the record date for such
dividend or distribution or split, multiplied by (B) the number of additional shares actually paid as a dividend or distribution or issued in such split in respect of each outstanding share of Common Stock. Any RSUs credited to you under this
Section 5(a)(iii) shall be subject to the restrictions and conditions that apply to the RSU with respect to which the RSUs are credited and will become payable when the underlying RSU becomes payable. If the underlying RSU does not vest or is
forfeited, any RSUs credited under this Section 5(a)(iii) with respect to the underlying RSU will also fail to vest and be forfeited. You will be eligible to receive Dividend Equivalents on any RSUs credited to you under this
Section 5(a)(iii).         

(b)  
  The number of your RSUs and other related terms shall be appropriately adjusted, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of your rights with respect to RSUs, to
reflect any changes in the outstanding shares of Common Stock resulting from any event referred to in Plan Section 11(c) or any other  equity restructuring  as defined in FASB ASC Topic 718, taking into account any RSUs credited to
you in connection with such event under Section 5(a).         

(c)  
  When the Dividend Equivalents you receive under this Section 5, if any, become payable to you, they will be compensation (wages) for tax purposes and, if you are a
U.S. taxpayer, will be included on your W-2 form. The Company will be required to withhold applicable taxes on such Dividend Equivalents. The Company may deduct such taxes in the manner set forth in Section 4 hereof.     

6.  
   EFFECT ON OTHER BENEFITS      
  In no event shall the value, at any time, of the RSUs or any other payment under this Agreement be included as compensation or earnings
for purposes of any other compensation, retirement, or benefit plan offered to employees of the Company or any subsidiary unless otherwise specifically provided for in such plan. The RSUs and the underlying shares of Common Stock (or their cash
equivalent), and the income and value of the same are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes including, but not limited to, calculation of any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy or end-of-service
payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits, or similar payments.   
         8   

7.  
   ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NATURE OF PLAN AND RSUs         In accepting the RSUs, you acknowledge, understand and agree that:       

(a)  
  The Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, to
the extent permitted by the Plan;         

(b)  
  The Award of RSUs is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of RSUs, or benefits in lieu of RSUs even if
RSUs have been awarded in the past;         

(c)  
  All decisions with respect to future awards of RSUs or other awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;     

(d)  
  Your participation in the Plan is voluntary;         

(e)  
  The RSUs and the Common Stock subject to the RSUs are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation;     

(f)  
  The future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with certainty;     

(g)  
  No claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the forfeiture of RSUs, resulting from termination of your employment or other service relationship with
the Company, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment
agreement, if any), and in consideration of the grant of the RSUs to which you are otherwise not entitled, you irrevocably agree never to institute any claim against the Company, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or the Employer, waive your
ability, if any, to bring such claim, and release the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate and/or the Employer from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by
participating in the Plan, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agree to execute any and all documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claim;     

(h)  
  Unless otherwise provided in the Plan or by the Company in its discretion, the RSUs and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have
the RSUs or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the shares of the Company; and     

(i)  
  The following provisions apply only if you are providing services outside the United States: (i) the Award and the shares of Common Stock subject to the RSUs are
not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose; and (ii) you acknowledge and agree that neither the Company, the Employer nor any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate
fluctuation between your local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the RSUs or of any amounts due to you pursuant to the settlement of the RSUs or the subsequent sale of any shares of Common Stock acquired upon
settlement.     
         9   

8.  
   NO ADVICE REGARDING GRANT      
  The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your
participation in the Plan or your acquisition or sale of the underlying shares of Common Stock. You are hereby advised to consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Plan before taking any
action related to the Plan.       

9.  
   RIGHT TO CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT         Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate or any specific position or level of employment with the Company
or any subsidiary or affiliate or affect in any way the right of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate to terminate your employment without prior notice at any time for any reason or no reason.   

10.  
   ADMINISTRATION; UNFUNDED OBLIGATIONS         The Committee shall have full authority and discretion, subject only to the express terms of the Plan, to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this
Agreement, and all such Committee determinations shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate, you, and all interested parties. Any provision for distribution in settlement of your RSUs and other obligations
hereunder (including cash amounts set aside under Section 5(a)(i)) shall be by means of bookkeeping entries on the books of the Company and shall not create in you or any beneficiary any right to, or claim against any, specific assets of the
Company, nor result in the creation of any trust or escrow account for you or any beneficiary. You and any of your beneficiaries entitled to any settlement or distribution hereunder shall be a general creditor of the Company.   
   
    You
are required to accept the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement prior to the first vest date in order for you to receive the Award granted to you hereunder. If you wish to decline this Award, you must reject this Agreement prior to the
first vest date. For your benefit, if you have not rejected the Agreement prior to the first vest date, you will be deemed to have automatically accepted this Award and all the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. Deemed acceptance will
allow the shares to be released to you in a timely manner.       
    This
Agreement shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, as amended from time to time, except that, subject to Sections 19 and 22 below, the Award which is the subject of this Agreement may not be materially adversely affected by any amendment or
termination of the Plan approved after the Award Date without your written consent.       

13.  
   SEVERABILITY AND VALIDITY      
  The various provisions of this Agreement are severable, and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise
unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.       

14.  
   GOVERNING LAW, JURISDICTION AND VENUE         This Agreement and Award grant shall be governed by the substantive laws (but not the choice of law rules) of the State of New York. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises under this RSU grant
or Agreement, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of New York, agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of New York, New York, or the federal courts for the United States for the Southern
District of New York, and no other courts where this RSU grant is made and/or performed.   
         10   

This
Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors, assigns, and heirs of the respective parties.       
      You
hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, your Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries for the
exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.          You understand
that the Company, any subsidiary and/or your Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security number or other identification number,
salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing,
administering and managing the Plan ( Data ).          You understand that Data may be transferred to Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which assists in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. You understand that the recipients of the Data may be
located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country (e.g. the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may
request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the Company, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney and other possible recipients which may assist the
Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your
participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the shares of Common Stock received upon vesting of the RSUs may be deposited. You understand that
Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the
storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting your local human resources representative. Further, you understand that you are providing the
consents herein on a purely voluntary basis. If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing
or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you RSUs or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to
participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.     

17.  
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY AND ACCEPTANCE         The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by
electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic systems established and maintained by the Company or a third-party designated by the Company.   
         11   

If you have
received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.   

19.  
   COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS         Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan or this Agreement, unless there is an available exemption from any registration, qualification or other legal requirement applicable to the shares of
Common Stock, you understand that the Company will not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock pursuant to the vesting of the RSUs, if the issuance of such Common Stock shall constitute a violation by you or the Company of any provision of
law or regulation of any governmental authority. Further, you agree that the Company shall have unilateral authority to amend the Plan and the Agreement without your consent to the extent necessary to comply with securities or other laws applicable
to issuance of shares. Any determination by the Company in this regard shall be final, binding and conclusive.       

20.  
   ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND NO ORAL MODIFICATION OR WAIVER         This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties. This Agreement shall not be modified or amended except in writing duly signed by the parties, except that the Company may adopt a
modification or amendment to the Agreement that is not materially adverse to you in writing signed only by the Company. Any waiver of any right or failure to perform under this Agreement shall be in writing signed by the party granting the waiver
and shall not be deemed a waiver of any subsequent failure to perform.       
    Your RSUs shall
be subject to any special provisions set forth in the Addendum to this Agreement for your country, if any. If you relocate to one of the countries included in the Addendum during the Restricted Period, the special provisions for such country shall
apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such provisions is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons. The Addendum, if any, constitutes part of this Agreement.   

22.  
   IMPOSITION OF OTHER REQUIREMENTS         The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the RSUs and on any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines
it is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.   

For the Company      
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company    

By  

12   

I have read this Agreement in its entirety. I understand that this Award has been granted to
provide a means for me to acquire and/or expand an ownership position in Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. I acknowledge and agree that sales of shares will be subject to the Company s policies regulating trading by employees. In accepting this
Award, I hereby agree that Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, or such other vendor as the Company may choose to administer the Plan, may provide the Company with any and all account information for the administration of this Award.   
  I hereby agree to all the terms, restrictions and conditions set forth in the Agreement.   
         13   

Addendum        BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY        SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR RSUs IN CERTAIN
COUNTRIES       This Addendum includes special country-specific terms that apply to residents in the countries listed below. This Addendum is
part of the Agreement. Unless otherwise provided below, capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Agreement.      This Addendum also includes information of which you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Plan. For example, certain individual exchange control reporting requirements may apply upon
vesting of the RSUs and/or sale of Common Stock. The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws in effect in the respective countries as of January 2013 and is provided for informational purposes. Such laws are often
complex and change frequently, and results may be different based on the particular facts and circumstances. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you do not rely on the information noted herein as the only source of information relating
to the consequences of your participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at the time your RSUs vest or are settled, or you sell shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan.   
  In addition, the information is general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of
any particular result. Accordingly, you are advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation.      Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you currently are working, transfer employment after the RSUs are granted to you, or are considered a resident of another
country for local law purposes, the information contained herein for the country you are working in at the time of grant may not be applicable to you, and the Company shall, in its discretion, determine to what extent the terms and conditions
contained herein shall be applicable to you. If you transfer residency and/or employment to another country or are considered a resident of another country listed in the Addendum after the RSUs are granted to you, the terms and/or information
contained for that new country (rather than the original grant country) may be applicable to you.       Algeria    
   Exchange Control Information.  Proceeds from the sale of Common Stock and the receipt of any dividends must be repatriated to Algeria. 
       Argentina    
   Securities Law Information.  Neither the RSUs nor the underlying shares of Common Stock are publicly offered or listed on any stock exchange in
Argentina. The offer is private and not subject to the supervision of any Argentine governmental authority.       Exchange Control
Information . In the event that you transfer proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock or any cash dividends paid on such shares into Argentina within 10 days of receipt ( i.e ., if the proceeds have not been held in the offshore bank
or brokerage account for at least 10 days prior to transfer), you will be required to deposit 30% of any proceeds in a non-interest bearing deposit account for a 365 day holding period. In any event, the Argentine bank handling the transaction may
request certain documentation in connection with your request to transfer proceeds into Argentina, including evidence of the sale and proof that no funds were remitted out of Argentina to acquire the shares of Common Stock. If the bank determines
that the 10-day rule or any other rule or regulation promulgated by the Argentine Central Bank has not been satisfied, it may require that 30% of the proceeds be placed   
         14   

in a non-interest bearing dollar denominated mandatory deposit account for a holding period of 365 days. Please note that exchange control regulations in Argentina are subject to frequent change.
You are solely responsible for complying with any exchange control laws that may apply to you as a result of participating in the Plan and/or the transfer of funds in connection with the award. You should consult with your personal legal advisor
regarding any exchange control obligations that you may have.       Australia    
   Australian Addendum.  The RSUs and your right to participate in the Plan are granted pursuant to the Australian Addendum and are subject to the
terms and conditions as stated in the Australian Addendum, the specific relief instrument granted by the Australian Securities and Investment Commission, the Plan and the Agreement.       Securities Law Information.  If you acquire shares of Common Stock pursuant to your RSUs and you offer your shares of Common Stock for sale to a person or entity resident in Australia, your offer
may be subject to disclosure requirements under Australian law. You should obtain legal advice on your disclosure obligations prior to making any such offer.       Exchange Control Information.  Exchange control reporting is required for cash transactions exceeding AUD10,000 and for international fund transfers. The Australian bank assisting with the
transaction will file the report for you. If there is no Australian bank involved in the transfer, you will have to file the report.       Austria        Exchange Control Information.  If you hold shares of Common Stock purchased
under the Plan outside of Austria (even if you hold them outside of Austria at a branch of an Austrian bank), you will be required to submit a report to the Austrian National Bank as follows: (i) on a quarterly basis if the value of the Common
Stock as of any given quarter exceeds  30,000,000; and (ii) on an annual basis if the value of the Common Stock as of December 31 exceeds  5,000,000.      When shares of Common Stock are sold, there may be exchange control obligations if the cash proceeds from the sale are held outside Austria. If the transaction volume of all your cash accounts abroad
exceeds  3,000,000, the movements and the balance of all accounts must be reported monthly, as of the last day of the month, on or before the fifteenth day of the following month. If the transaction value of all cash accounts abroad is less
than  3,000,000, no ongoing reporting requirements apply.       Belgium    
   Tax Reporting Information.  If you are a Belgian resident, you are required to report any security or bank account (including brokerage accounts)
you maintain outside of Belgium on your annual tax return.       Brazil    
   Compliance with Laws.  By accepting the RSUs, you agree that you will comply with Brazilian law when you vest in the RSUs and sell shares of Common
Stock. You also agree to report and pay any and all taxes associated with the vesting of the RSUs, the sale of the shares of Common Stock acquired pursuant to the Plan and the receipt of any dividends or Dividend Equivalents.   
   Exchange Control Information.  You must prepare and submit a declaration of assets and rights held outside of Brazil to the Central Bank on an
annual basis if you hold assets or rights valued at more than US$100,000. The assets and rights that must be reported include shares of Common Stock.   
         15   

Canada        Settlement of RSUs.  Notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, RSUs will be settled in shares of Common Stock only, not cash.   
   Securities Law Information.  You acknowledge and agree that you will only sell shares of Common Stock acquired through participation in the Plan
outside of Canada through the facilities of a stock exchange on which the Common Stock is listed. Currently, the shares of Common Stock are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.       Termination of Employment.  This provision replaces the second paragraph of Section 2(h)(v) of the Agreement:      In the event of your termination of employment or other service relationship (for any reason whatsoever, whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where
you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), your right to vest in the RSUs will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of (1) the date you are no longer actively providing service or (2) the date
you receive notice of termination of employment from the Employer, regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under applicable laws (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common
law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively employed for purposes of the RSUs.       The
following provisions apply if you are resident in Quebec:        Language Acknowledgment    
  The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this Agreement, including this Addendum, as well as all documents, notices and legal
proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be provided to them in English.   
   Consentement relatif   la langue utilis e. Les parties reconnaissent avoir express ment souhait  que la convention
( Agreement ) ainsi que cette Annexe, ainsi que tous les documents, avis et proc dures judiciares,  x cut s, donn s ou intent s en vertu de, ou li s directement ou
indirectement   la pr sente convention, soient r dig s en langue anglaise.        Data Privacy.  This
provision supplements Section 16 of the Agreement:      You hereby authorize the Company, the Employer and their representatives to discuss
with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan. You further authorize the Company and its subsidiaries to disclose and discuss the Plan with their advisors.
You further authorize the Company and its subsidiaries to record such information and to keep such information in your employee file.       Chile        Securities Law Information.  Neither the Company, the RSUs nor the shares of
Common Stock you may acquire upon vesting of your RSUs are registered with the Registry of Securities or under the control of the Chilean Superintendence of Securities.       Exchange Control and Tax Information.  You are not required to repatriate proceeds obtained from the sale of Common Stock or from dividends to Chile; however, if you decide to repatriate proceeds
from the sale of Common Stock and/or dividends and the amount of the proceeds to be repatriated exceeds US$10,000, you acknowledge that you must effect such repatriation through the Formal Exchange Market ( i.e ., a commercial bank or
registered foreign exchange office).   
         16   

Further, if the value of your aggregate investments held outside of Chile exceeds US$5,000,000 (including
the value of Common Stock acquired under the Plan), you must report the status of such investments annually to the Central Bank using Annex 3.1 of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations.   
  Finally, if you hold Common Stock acquired under the Plan outside of Chile, you must inform the Chilean Internal Revenue Service (the  CIRS )
of the details of your investment in the Common Stock by Filing Tax Form 1851  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Investments Held Abroad . Further, if you wish to receive credit against your Chilean income taxes for any taxes paid abroad,
you must report the payment of taxes abroad to the CIRS by filing Tax Form 1853  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Credits for Taxes Paid Abroad . These statements must be submitted electronically through the CIRS website before
March 15 of each year.       China        The following provisions apply if you are subject to the exchange control regulations in China, as determined by the Company in its sole discretion:    
   Settlement of RSUs and Sale of Common Stock . Due to local regulatory requirements, upon the vesting of the RSUs, you agree to the immediate sale of
any shares of Common Stock to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the RSUs. You further agree that the Company is authorized to instruct its designated broker to assist with the mandatory sale of such shares of Common Stock (on your
behalf pursuant to this authorization) and you expressly authorize the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of such shares of Common Stock. You acknowledge that the Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange
for the sale of the shares of Common Stock at any particular price. Upon the sale of the shares of Common Stock, the Company agrees to pay you the cash proceeds from the sale of the Common Stock, less any brokerage fees or commissions and subject to
any obligation to satisfy Tax-Related Items.       Treatment of RSUs Upon Termination of Employment.  Notwithstanding anything in the
Agreement to the contrary, any portion of shares of Common Stock that vests upon termination of your employment will be distributed to you no later than three months from the date of termination, as determined by the Company. If all or a portion of
your RSUs become distributable at some time following your termination of employment, that portion will vest and become distributable immediately upon termination of your employment. Any shares of Common Stock distributed to you according to this
paragraph will be sold immediately upon distribution, as described above.       Exchange Control Information . You understand and agree that,
to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements, you will be required to immediately repatriate to China the cash proceeds from the immediate sale of the shares of Common Stock issued upon the vesting of the RSUs. You further understand
that, under local law, such repatriation of the cash proceeds will be effectuated through a special exchange control account established by the Company or its subsidiaries, and you hereby consent and agree that the proceeds from the sale of shares
of Common Stock acquired under the Plan may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to you. The Company may deliver the proceeds to you in U.S. dollars or local currency at the Company s discretion. If the proceeds are
paid in U.S. dollars, you understand that you will be required to set up a U.S. dollar bank account in China so that the proceeds may be deposited into this account. If the proceeds are converted to local currency, there may be delays in delivering
the proceeds to you and due to fluctuations in the Common Stock trading price and/or the U.S. dollar/PRC exchange rate between the vesting/sale date and (if later) when the sale proceeds can be converted into local currency, the sale proceeds that
you receive may be more or less than the market value of the Common Stock on the vesting/sale date (which is the amount relevant to determining your tax liability). You agree to bear the risk of any currency fluctuation between the date the RSUs
vest and the date of conversion of the proceeds into local currency.   
         17   

You further agree to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future to
facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in China.       Colombia    
   Exchange Control Information.  Investments in assets located outside of Colombia (including Common Stock) are subject to registration with the
Central Bank (Banco de la Rep blica) if the aggregate value of such investments is US$500,000 or more (as of December 31 of the applicable calendar year). Further, upon the sale of any Common Stock that you have registered with the
Central Bank, you must cancel the registration by March 31 of the following year. You may be subject to fines if you fail to cancel such registration.       Czech Republic        Exchange Control Information.  The Czech National Bank may require
you to fulfill certain notification duties in relation to the RSUs and the opening and maintenance of a foreign account. However, because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your personal legal
advisor prior to the vesting of the RSUs and the sale of shares of Common Stock to ensure compliance with current regulations. It is your responsibility to comply with any applicable Czech exchange control laws.   
   Denmark        Stock Option
Act.  You acknowledge that you have received an Employer Statement in Danish.       Exchange Control Information.  If you establish an
account holding shares of Common Stock or an account holding cash outside Denmark, you must report the account to the Danish Tax Administration. The form may be obtained from a local bank. Please note that these obligations are separate from and in
addition to the obligations described below.       Securities/Tax Reporting Information.  If you hold shares of Common Stock acquired under
the Plan in a brokerage account with a broker or bank outside Denmark, you are required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about the account. For this purpose, you must file a Form V (Erklaering V) with the Danish Tax Administration. Both you
and the broker or bank must sign the Form V. By signing the Form V, the broker or bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information
relates, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the shares of Common Stock in the account. In the event that the applicable broker or bank with which the account is held does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the
country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to report, you acknowledge that you are solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account and any shares of Common Stock acquired at vesting
and held in such account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of your annual income tax return. By signing the Form V, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account. A sample of the Form V can be found at the following
website:  www.skat.dk .      In addition, if you open a brokerage account (or a deposit account with a U.S. bank), the brokerage account
likely will be treated as a deposit account because cash can be held in the account. Therefore, you likely must file a Form K (Erklaering K) with the Danish Tax Administration. The Form K must be signed both by you and by the applicable broker or
bank where the account is held. By signing the Form K, the broker/bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than   
         18   

February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the account. In the
event that the applicable financial institution (broker or bank) with which the account is held, does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to report, you acknowledge that you are
solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of your annual income tax return. By signing the Form K, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine
the account. A sample of the Form K can be found at the following website:  www.skat.dk .       Ecuador    
  There are no country-specific provisions.       Egypt        Exchange Control Information.  If you transfer funds into Egypt in connection
with the RSUs, you are required to transfer the funds through a registered bank in Egypt.       European Union Member States
       Retirement.  The following provision supplements Section 2 and 2(c) of the Agreement:   
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the EU Employment Equality Directive has been implemented in your country of employment or residence or if the Company
receives a legal opinion that there has been a legal judgment and/or legal development in your jurisdiction that likely would result in the favorable Retirement treatment that applies to the RSUs under the Plan being deemed unlawful and/or
discriminatory, the provision above regarding termination of employment due to Retirement shall not be applicable to you.   
   Finland       There are no
country specific provisions.       France        Language Acknowledgement        En signant et renvoyant le pr sent document
d crivant les termes et conditions de votre attribution, vous confirmez ainsi avoir lu et compris les documents relatifs   cette attribution (le Plan et ce Contrat d Attribution) qui vous ont  t  communiqu s
en langue anglaise.       By accepting your RSUs, you confirm having read and understood the documents relating to this grant (the Plan and
this Agreement) which were provided to you in English.       Exchange Control Information.  If you import or export cash ( e.g. ,
sales proceeds received under the Plan) with a value equal to or exceeding  10,000 and do not use a financial institution to do so, you must submit a report to the customs and excise authorities.  
  If you hold shares of Common Stock outside of France or maintain a foreign bank account, you are required to report such to the French tax authorities
when filing your annual tax return. Failure to comply could trigger significant penalties.   
         19   

Germany        Exchange Control Information.  Cross-border payments in excess of  12,500 must be reported monthly to the German Federal Bank. In the event that you make or receive a payment in excess of this
amount, you are responsible for obtaining the appropriate form from the remitting bank and complying with applicable reporting requirements.       Greece       There are no country-specific provisions.   
   Hong Kong        Securities
Law Information.   Warning: The RSUs and any shares of Common Stock issued at vesting do not constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to employees of the Company or its subsidiaries. The Agreement,
including this Addendum, the Plan and other incidental communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a  prospectus  for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities
legislation in Hong Kong, nor have the documents been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. The RSUs are intended only for the personal use of each eligible employee of the Employer, the Company or any subsidiary and may not be
distributed to any other person. If you are in any doubt about any of the contents of the Agreement, including this Addendum, or the Plan, or any other incidental communication materials, you should obtain independent professional advice.  
      Settlement of RSUs and Sale of Common Stock.  Notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary,
RSUs will be settled in shares of Common Stock only, not cash. In addition, notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, no shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan can be sold prior to six months from
the Award Date.       Nature of Scheme.  The Company specifically intends that the Plan will not be an occupational retirement scheme for
purposes of the Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance ( ORSO ).          Hungary    
  There are no country-specific provisions.       India        Exchange Control Information.  You must repatriate all proceeds received from
the sale of shares of Common Stock and any cash dividends to India within a reasonable time following the sale (i.e., within 90 days). You must maintain the foreign inward remittance certificate received from the bank where the foreign currency is
deposited in the event that the Reserve Bank of India or the Company or the Employer requests proof of repatriation.  It is your responsibility to comply with applicable exchange control laws in India.    
  Effective April 1, 2012, you are required to declare in your annual tax return (a) any foreign assets held by you or (b) any foreign bank
accounts for which you have signing authority.       Ireland        Director Notification Obligation.  If you are a director, shadow director, or secretary of an Irish subsidiary, you are subject to certain notification requirements under the Companies Act, 1990.
Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Irish subsidiary in writing within five business days of   
         20   

receiving or disposing of an interest ( e.g ., RSUs, Common Stock) in the Company and the number and class of shares of Common Stock or rights to which the interest relates, or within five
business days of becoming aware of the event giving rise to the notification requirement or within five days of becoming a director or secretary if such an interest exists at the time. This disclosure requirement also applies to any rights or shares
of Common Stock acquired by your spouse or child(ren) (under the age of 18).       Israel    
   Settlement of RSUs and Sale of Common Stock . Due to local regulatory requirements, upon the vesting of the RSUs, you agree to the immediate sale
of any shares of Common Stock to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the RSUs. You further agree that the Company is authorized to instruct its designated broker to assist with the mandatory sale of such shares of Common Stock (on your
behalf pursuant to this authorization) and you expressly authorize the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of such shares of Common Stock. You acknowledge that the Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange
for the sale of the shares of Common Stock at any particular price. Upon the sale of the shares of Common Stock, the Company agrees to pay you the cash proceeds from the sale of the Common Stock, less any brokerage fees or commissions and subject to
any obligation to satisfy Tax-Related Items.          Italy        Data Privacy Notice.  This section replaces Section 16 of the Agreement:      You
understand that the Company and the Employer are the privacy representatives of the Company in Italy and may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth,
social insurance or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of Common Stock or directorships held in the Company or any subsidiaries, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to Common Stock awarded, canceled,
vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, and that the Company and the Employer will process said data and other data lawfully received from third parties ( Personal Data ) for the exclusive purpose of managing and administering the
Plan and complying with applicable laws, regulations and Community legislation. You also understand that providing the Company with Personal Data is mandatory for compliance with laws and is necessary for the performance of the Plan and that your
denial to provide Personal Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. You understand that Personal Data will not be publicized, but it may be
accessible by the Employer as the privacy representative of the Company and within the Employer s organization by its internal and external personnel in charge of processing, and by Morgan Stanley Smith Barney or any other data processor
appointed by the Company. The updated list of processors and of the subjects to which Data are communicated will remain available upon request from the Employer. Furthermore, Personal Data may be transferred to banks, other financial institutions or
brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan. You understand that Personal Data may also be transferred to the independent registered public accounting firm engaged by the Company, and also to the legitimate addressees under
applicable laws. You further understand that the Company and its subsidiaries will transfer Personal Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of your participation in the Plan, and that
the Company and its subsidiaries may each further transfer Personal Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer of Personal Data to Morgan Stanley
Smith Barney or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan or any proceeds from the sale of such Common Stock. Such recipients may receive, possess, use, retain and transfer Personal Data
in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that these recipients may be acting as controllers, processors or persons in charge of processing, as the case
may be, according to applicable privacy laws, and that they may be located in or outside the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere, in countries that do not provide an adequate level of data protection as intended under
Italian privacy law.   
         21   

Should the Company exercise its discretion in suspending all necessary legal obligations connected with the
management and administration of the Plan, it will delete Personal Data as soon as it has accomplished all the necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan.   
  You understand that Personal Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions,
anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Personal Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree no.
196/2003.      The processing activity, including communication, the transfer of Personal Data abroad, including outside of the European Economic
Area, as specified herein and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require your consent thereto as the processing is necessary to performance of law and contractual obligations related to implementation, administration and
management of the Plan. You understand that, pursuant to section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, you have the right at any moment to, including, but not limited to, obtain confirmation that Personal Data exists or not, access, verify its
contents, origin and accuracy, delete, update, integrate, correct, block or stop, for legitimate reason, the Personal Data processing. To exercise privacy rights, you should contact the Employer. Furthermore, you are aware that Personal Data will
not be used for direct marketing purposes. In addition, Personal Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting your human resources department.       Plan Document Acknowledgment.  By accepting the RSUs, you acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan, reviewed the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum in their entirety and fully
understand and accept all provisions of the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum.      In addition, you further acknowledge that you have read
and specifically and expressly approve without limitation the following clauses in the Agreement: Section 4 (Responsibility for Taxes); Section 7 (Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and RSUs); Section 8 (No Advice Regarding Grant);
Section 9 (Right to Continued Employment); Section 11 (Deemed Acceptance); Section 13 (Severability and Validity); Section 14 (Governing Law, Jurisdiction and Venue); Section 16 (Data Privacy, as replaced by the above
provision in this Addendum); Section 17 (Electronic Delivery and Acceptance); Section 18 (Language); Section 19 (Compliance with Laws and Regulations); Section 20 (Entire Agreement and No Oral Modification or Waiver);
Section 21 (Addendum); and Section 22 (Imposition of Other Requirements).       Additional Tax/Exchange Control Information.  You
are required to report in your annual tax return: (a) any transfers of cash or Common Stock to or from Italy exceeding  10,000 or the equivalent amount in U.S. dollars; (b) any foreign investments or investments (including proceeds
from the sale of Common Stock acquired under the Plan) held outside of Italy exceeding  10,000 or the equivalent amount in U.S. dollars, if the investment may give rise to taxable income in Italy and (c) the amount of the transfers to and
from abroad which have had an impact during the calendar year on your foreign investments or investments held outside of Italy. Under certain circumstances, you may be exempt from requirement under (a) above if the transfer or investment is
made through an authorized broker resident in Italy.      Starting from 2011, a tax on the value of financial assets held outside of Italy by
Italian residents has been introduced. The tax will apply at an annual rate of 0.15% beginning in 2013. The taxable amount will be the fair market value of the financial assets, assessed at the end of the calendar year. For the purposes of the
market value assessment, the documentation issued by the Plan broker may be used.   
         22   

Japan        Offshore Assets Reporting Information.  You will be required to report details of any assets (including any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan) held outside of Japan as of
December 31st of each year, to the extent such assets have a total net fair market value exceeding  50,000,000. Such report will be due by March 15th of the following year. You should consult with your personal tax advisor as to
whether the reporting obligation applies to you and whether you will be required to report details of any outstanding RSUs or shares of Common Stock held by you in the report.     
   Korea        Exchange
Control Information.  Korean residents who realize US$500,000 or more from the sale of shares of Common Stock or receipt of dividends in a single transaction are required to repatriate the proceeds to Korea within 18 months of receipt.
      Kuwait    
  There are no country-specific provisions.       Luxembourg        Exchange Control Information.  You are required to report any inward
remittances of funds to the  Banque Central de Luxembourg  and/or the  Service Central de La Statistique et des  tudes  conomiques  within 15 working days following the month during which the transaction occurred. If a
Luxembourg financial institution is involved in the transaction, it generally will fulfill the reporting obligation on your behalf.       Mexico        Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgment.  By accepting this Award, you expressly
recognize that the Company, with offices at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154, U.S.A., is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and that your participation in the Plan and acquisition of shares does not constitute an
employment relationship between you and the Company since you are participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and your sole employer is Bristol-Myers Squibb Company in Mexico ( BMS-Mexico ), not the Company in the United States.
Based on the foregoing, you expressly recognize that the Plan and the benefits that you may derive from participation in the Plan do not establish any rights between you and your employer, BMS-Mexico, and do not form part of the employment
conditions and/or benefits provided by BMS-Mexico and any modification of the Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of your employment.   
  You further understand that your participation in the Plan is as a result of a unilateral and discretionary decision of the Company; therefore, the
Company reserves the absolute right to amend and/or discontinue your participation at any time without any liability to you.      Finally, you
hereby declare that you do not reserve to yourself any action or right to bring any claim against the Company for any compensation or damages regarding any provision of the Plan or the benefits derived under the Plan, and you therefore grant a full
and broad release to the Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates, branches, representation offices, its shareholders, officers, agents or legal representatives with respect to any claim that may arise.   
         23   

Pol tica Laboral y Reconocimiento/Aceptaci n.    Aceptando este Premio1,
el participante reconoce que la Compa  a, with offices at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154, U.S.A., es el  nico responsable de la administraci n del Plan y que la participaci n del Participante en el mismo
y la adquisicion de acciones no constituye de ninguna manera una relaci n laboral entre el Participante y la Compa  a, toda vez que la participaci n del participante en el Plan deriva  nicamente de una
relaci n comercial con la Compa  a, reconociendo expresamente que el  nico empleador del participante lo es Bristol-Myers Squibb Company en Mexico ( BMS-Mexico ), no es la Compa  a en los Estados
Unidos. Derivado de lo anterior, el participante expresamente reconoce que el Plan y los beneficios que pudieran derivar del mismo no establecen ning n derecho entre el participante y su empleador, BMS-M xico, y no forman parte de las
condiciones laborales y/o prestaciones otorgadas por BMS-M xico, y expresamente el participante reconoce que cualquier modificaci n el Plan o la terminaci n del mismo de manera alguna podr  ser interpretada como una
modificaci n de los condiciones de trabajo del participante.        Asimismo, el participante entiende que su participaci n en
el Plan es resultado de la decisi n unilateral y discrecional de la Compa  a, por lo tanto, la Compa  a. Se reserva el derecho absoluto para modificar y/o terminar la participaci n del participante en
cualquier momento, sin ninguna responsabilidad para el participante.        Finalmente, el participante manifiesta que no se reserva ninguna
acci n o derecho que origine una demanda en contra de la Compa  a, por cualquier compensaci n o da o en relaci n con cualquier disposici n del Plan o de los beneficios derivados del mismo, y en
consecuencia el participante otorga un amplio y total finiquito a la Compa  a, sus entidades relacionadas, afiliadas, sucursales, oficinas de representaci n, sus accionistas, directores, agentes y representantes legales con
respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera surgir.        Netherlands    
   Insider-Trading Notification.  You should be aware of the Dutch insider-trading rules, which may impact the sale of shares of Common Stock issued
to you at settlement of the RSUs. In particular, you may be prohibited from effectuating certain transactions involving Common Stock if you have inside information about the Company.      Under Article 5:56 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, anyone who has  inside information  related to an issuing company is prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in or
from the Netherlands.  Inside information  is defined as knowledge of specific information concerning the issuing company to which the securities relate or the trade in securities issued by such company, which has not been made public and
which, if published, would reasonably be expected to affect the share price, regardless of the development of the price. The insider could be any employee of a subsidiary in the Netherlands who has inside information as described herein.   
  Given the broad scope of the definition of inside information, certain employees working at a subsidiary in the Netherlands may have inside information
and, thus, would be prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in the Netherlands at a time when they have such inside information.      By accepting the RSUs and the underlying shares of Common Stock, you acknowledge having read and understood the notification above and acknowledge that it is your responsibility to comply with the Dutch
insider trading rules, as discussed herein.      If you are uncertain whether the insider-trading rules apply to you, you should consult your
personal legal advisor.           

1  
   El t rmino  Premio  se refiere a la palabra  Award.       
         24   

Norway       There are no country-specific provisions.       Peru    
   Securities Law Information.  The grant of RSUs is considered a private offering in Peru; therefore, it is not subject to registration.   
   Poland        Exchange
Control Information.  Polish residents holding foreign securities (including shares of Common Stock) and maintaining accounts abroad must report information to the National Bank of Poland. Specifically, if the aggregate value of shares and cash
held in such foreign accounts exceeds PLN 7 million, Polish residents must file reports on the transactions and balances of the accounts on a quarterly basis on special forms that are available on the website of the National Bank of Poland. In
addition, Polish residents are required to transfer funds ( i.e ., in connection with the sale of shares of Common Stock) through a bank account in Poland if the transferred amount in any single transaction exceeds a specified threshold
(currently  15,000). If you are a Polish resident, you must also store all documents connected with any foreign exchange transactions you engage in for a period of five years, as measured from the end of the year in which such transaction
occurred. You should consult with your personal legal advisor to determine what you must do to fulfill any applicable reporting duties.       Portugal        Language Consent.  You hereby expressly declare that you have full
knowledge of the English language and have read, understood and fully accepted and agreed with the terms and conditions established in the Plan and the Agreement.       Conhecimento da Lingua. Voc  expressamente declara ter pleno conhecimento do idioma ingl s e ter lido, entendido e totalmente aceito e concordou com os termos e condi  es
estabelecidas no plano e no acordo.        Exchange Control Information.  If you acquire shares of Common Stock under the Plan and do not
hold the shares with a Portuguese financial intermediary, you may need to file a report with the Portuguese Central Bank. If the shares are held by a Portuguese financial intermediary, it will file the report for you.     
   Puerto Rico       There are
no country-specific provisions.       Romania        Exchange Control Information.  If you deposit the proceeds from the sale of your shares of Common Stock in a bank account in Romania, you may have to provide the Romanian bank through which the
operations are effected with appropriate documentation regarding the receipt of the income. You should consult with a personal legal advisor to determine whether you will be required to submit such documentation to the Romanian bank.   
         25   

Russia        Exchange Control Information.  You acknowledge that you must repatriate the proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock and any dividends/Dividend Equivalents received in relation to the RSUs
within a reasonably short time of receipt. Such amounts must be initially credited to you through a foreign currency account opened in your name at an authorized bank in Russia. After the funds are initially received in Russia, they may be further
remitted to foreign banks subject to the following limitations: (i) the foreign account may be opened only for individuals; (ii) the foreign account may not be used for business activities; and (iii) you must give notice to the
Russian tax authorities about the opening/closing of each foreign account within one month of the account opening/closing.       Securities Law
Information.  These materials do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia nor do they constitute placement of the shares of Common Stock in Russia. The issuance of Common Stock pursuant to the RSUs described herein has
not and will not be registered in Russia and hence, the shares of Common Stock described herein may not be admitted or used for offering, placement or public circulation in Russia.       U.S. Transaction.  Any shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the RSUs shall be delivered to you through a brokerage account in the U.S. You may hold shares of Common Stock in your brokerage
account in the U.S.; however, in no event will shares issued to you and/or share certificates or other instruments be delivered to you in Russia. You are not permitted to make any public advertising or announcements regarding the RSUs or Common
Stock in Russia, or promote these shares to other Russian legal entities or individuals, and you are not permitted to sell or otherwise dispose of Common Stock directly to other Russian legal entities or individuals. You are permitted to sell shares
of Common Stock only on the New York Stock Exchange and only through a U.S. broker.       Data Privacy Consent.  This section replaces
Section 16 of the Agreement:      You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other
form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, your Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.   
  You understand that the Company, any subsidiary and/or your Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your
name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to
shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ( Data ).      You understand that Data may be transferred to Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which assists in the implementation,
administration and management of the Plan. You understand that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States, or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country ( e.g ., the United States) may have different data privacy laws
and protections than your country. You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the International Compensation and Benefits
Group. You authorize the Company, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney and other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and
transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other
third party with whom the shares of Common Stock received upon vesting of the RSUs may be deposited. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan.   
  You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and
processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case and without cost, by contacting in writing the   
         26   

International Compensation and Benefits Group. Further, you understand that you are providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis. If you do not consent, or if you later seek to
revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you RSUs or other
equity awards or administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or
withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact the International Compensation and Benefits Group.       Labor Law
Information   .   You acknowledge that if you continue to hold shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan after an involuntary termination of your employment, you will not be eligible to receive unemployment benefits in Russia.
      Saudi Arabia    
   Securities Law Information.  This document may not be distributed in the Kingdom except to such persons as are permitted under the Offers of
Securities Regulations issued by the Capital Market Authority.      The Capital Market Authority does not make any representation as to the
accuracy or completeness of this document, and expressly disclaims any liability whatsoever for any loss arising from, or incurred in reliance upon, any part of this document. Prospective purchasers of the securities offered hereby should conduct
their own due diligence on the accuracy of the information relating to the securities. If you do not understand the contents of this document you should consult an authorized financial advisor.   
   Singapore        Securities
Law Information   .   The grant of RSUs is being made in reliance of section 273(1)(f) of the Securities and Futures Act (Chap. 289) ( SFA ) for which it is exempt from the prospectus and registration requirements under the
SFA. The Plan has not been lodged or registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore. You should note that the RSUs are subject to section 257 of the SFA and you will not be able to make (i) any subsequent sale of the shares
of Common Stock in Singapore or (ii) any offer of such subsequent sale of the shares of Common Stock subject to the RSUs in Singapore, unless such sale or offer is made pursuant to the exemptions under Part XIII Division (1) Subdivision
(4) (other than section 280) of the SFA (Chapter 289, 2006 Ed.).       Director Notification Requirement.  If you are a director,
associate director or shadow director of a Singapore company, you are subject to certain notification requirements under the Singapore Companies Act. Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Singapore company in writing when you
receive an interest ( e.g. , RSUs, Common Stock) in the Company or any related companies. In addition, you must notify the Singapore company when you sell shares of the Company or any related company (including when you sell shares of
Common Stock acquired pursuant to your RSUs). These notifications must be made within two business days of acquiring or disposing of any interest in the Company or any related company. In addition, a notification must be made of your interests in
the Company or any related company within two business days of becoming a director.       Insider Trading Notification.  You should be aware
of the Singapore insider trading rules, which may impact the acquisition or disposal of shares or rights to shares of Common Stock under the Plan. Under the Singapore insider trading rules, you are prohibited from acquiring or selling shares of
Common Stock or rights to shares of Common Stock ( e.g. , RSUs under the Plan) when you are in possession of information which is not generally available and which you know or should know will have a material effect on the price of Common Stock
once such information is generally available.   
         27   

South Africa        Exchange Control Information.  You are solely responsible for complying with applicable South African exchange control regulations. Because the exchange control regulations change frequently and
without notice, you should consult your legal advisor prior to the acquisition or sale of shares of Common Stock under the Plan to ensure compliance with current regulations. As noted, it is your responsibility to comply with South African exchange
control laws, and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from failure to comply with applicable laws.       Spain        Exchange Control Information.  To participate in the Plan, you must comply
with exchange control regulations in Spain. When receiving foreign currency payments exceeding  50,000 derived from the ownership of shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the RSUs ( i.e. , dividends, Dividend Equivalents or sale
proceeds), you must inform the financial institution receiving the payment of the basis upon which such payment is made. You will need to provide the institution with the following information: (i) your name, address, and fiscal identification
number; (ii) the name and corporate domicile of the Company; (iii) the amount of the payment and the currency used; (iv) the country of origin; (v) the reasons for the payment; and (vi) further information that may be
required.      If you acquire shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the RSUs and wish to import the ownership title of such shares
( i.e ., share certificates) into Spain, you must declare the importation of such securities to the Spanish  Direccion General de Pol tica Comercial y de Inversiones Extranjeras  (the  DGPCIE ). Generally, the declaration
must be made in January for shares of Common Stock acquired or sold during (or owned as of December 31 of) the prior year; however, if the value of shares acquired or sold exceeds  1,502,530 (or you hold 10% or more of the share capital of
the Company or such other amount that would entitle you to join the Company s board of directors), the declaration must be filed within one month of the acquisition or sale, as applicable. In addition, you also must file a declaration of
ownership of foreign securities with the Directorate of Foreign Transactions each January.      Further, effective January 1, 2013, to the
extent that you hold assets ( e.g ., cash or shares of Common Stock held in a bank or brokerage account) or rights ( e.g ., the RSUs) outside of Spain with a value in excess of  20,000 (on a per-asset basis) as of December 31
each year, you will be required to report information on such rights and assets on your tax return for such year.       Labor Law
Acknowledgment.  This provision supplements Sections 2(g) and 7 of the Agreement:        By accepting the RSUs, you consent to
participation in the Plan and acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan document.      You understand and agree that, as a condition
of the grant of the RSUs, except as provided for in Section 2 of the Agreement, your termination of employment for any reason (including for the reasons listed below) will automatically result in the forfeiture of any RSUs that have not vested
on the date of your termination.      In particular, you understand and agree that, unless otherwise provided in the Agreement, the RSUs will be
forfeited without entitlement to the underlying shares of Common Stock or to any amount as indemnification in the event of a termination of your employment prior to vesting by reason of, including, but not limited to: resignation, disciplinary
dismissal adjudged to be with cause, disciplinary dismissal adjudged or recognized to be without cause, individual or collective layoff on objective grounds, whether adjudged to be with cause or adjudged or recognized to be without cause, material
modification of the terms of employment under Article 41 of the Workers  Statute, relocation under Article 40 of the Workers  Statute, Article 50 of the Workers  Statute, unilateral withdrawal by the Employer, and under Article 10.3
of Royal Decree 1382/1985.   
         28   

Furthermore, you understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and discretionally decided to
grant RSUs under the Plan to individuals who may be employees of the Company or a subsidiary. The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or otherwise bind
the Company or any subsidiary on an ongoing basis, other than as expressly set forth in the Agreement. Consequently, you understand that the RSUs are granted on the assumption and condition that the RSUs and the shares of Common Stock underlying the
RSUs shall not become a part of any employment or service contract (either with the Company, the Employer or any subsidiary) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other
right whatsoever. In addition, you understand that the RSUs would not be granted to you but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, you acknowledge and freely accept that, should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or
should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then any Award of RSUs shall be null and void.       Securities Law Information.  The
RSUs and the Common Stock described in the Agreement and this Addendum do not qualify under Spanish regulations as securities. No  offer of securities to the public,  as defined under Spanish law, has taken place or will take place in the
Spanish territory. The Agreement (including this Addendum) has not been nor will it be registered with the  Comisi n Nacional del Mercado de Valores , and does not constitute a public offering prospectus.   
   Sweden       There are no
country-specific provisions.       Switzerland        Securities Law Information.  The RSUs offered are considered a private offering in Switzerland; therefore, they are not subject to registration in Switzerland.   
   Taiwan        Exchange
Control Information.  You may remit foreign currency (including proceeds from the sale of Common Stock) into or out of Taiwan up to US$5,000,000 per year without special permission. If the transaction amount is TWD500,000 or more in a single
transaction, you must submit a Foreign Exchange Transaction Form to the remitting bank and provide supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank.       Thailand        Exchange Control Information.  If the proceeds from the sale of shares of
Common Stock or the receipt of dividends are equal to or greater than US$50,000 or more in a single transaction, you must repatriate the proceeds to Thailand immediately upon receipt and convert the funds to Thai Baht or deposit the proceeds in a
foreign currency deposit account maintained by a bank in Thailand within 360 days of remitting the proceeds to Thailand. In addition you must report the inward remittance to the Bank of Thailand on a foreign exchange transaction form. If you fail to
comply with these obligations, you may be subject to penalties assessed by the Bank of Thailand. Because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your personal advisor before selling shares of Common
Stock to ensure compliance with current regulations. You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Thailand, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from
your failure to comply with applicable laws.   
         29   

Tunisia        Securities Law Information.  All proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock must be repatriated to Tunisia. You should consult your personal advisor before taking action with respect to
remittance of proceeds into Tunisia. You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Tunisia. In addition, if you hold assets abroad in excess of a certain amount, you must report the assets to the Central Bank of
Tunisia.       Turkey        Securities Law Information.  Under Turkish law, you are not permitted to sell shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan in Turkey. The shares of Common Stock are currently traded on the New
York Stock Exchange, which is located outside of Turkey, under the ticker symbol  BMY  and the shares of Common Stock may be sold through this exchange.       United Arab Emirates        Securities Law Information.  The Plan is only being offered to
qualified employees and is in the nature of providing equity incentives to employees of the Company or its subsidiary or affiliate in the UAE. Any documents related to the Plan, including the Plan, Plan prospectus and other grant documents
( Plan Documents ), are intended for distribution only to such employees and must not be delivered to, or relied on by, any other person. Prospective purchasers of the securities offered should conduct their own due diligence on the
securities. If you do not understand the contents of the Plan Documents, you should consult an authorized financial adviser.      The Emirates
Securities and Commodities Authority has no responsibility for reviewing or verifying any Plan Documents nor taken steps to verify the information set out in them, and thus, are not responsible for such documents.   
   United Kingdom    
   Responsibility for Taxes.  This provision supplements Section 4 of the Agreement:      You agree that, if you do not pay or the Employer or the Company does not withhold from you the full amount of Tax-Related Items that you owe at vesting and settlement of the RSUs, or the release or
assignment of the RSUs for consideration, or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the RSUs (the  Taxable Event ) within 90 days after the Taxable Event, or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K.
Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, then the amount of income tax that should have been withheld shall constitute a loan owed by you to the Employer, effective 90 days after the Taxable Event. You agree that the loan will bear interest at
Her Majesty s Revenue   Customs  ( HMRC ) official rate and will be immediately due and repayable by you, and the Company and/or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by withholding the funds from salary,
bonus or any other funds due to you by the Employer, by withholding in shares of Common Stock issued upon vesting of your RSUs or from the cash proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock or by demanding cash or a cheque from you. You also
authorize the Company to delay the issuance of any shares of Common Stock unless and until the loan is repaid in full.      Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if you are an officer or executive director (as within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), the terms of the immediately foregoing provision will not apply. In the event that you are
an officer or executive director and the income tax that   
         30   

is due is not collected from or paid by you within 90 days of the Taxable Event, the amount of any uncollected income tax may constitute a benefit to you on which additional income tax and
national insurance contributions may be payable. You will be responsible for reporting and paying any income tax due on this additional benefit directly to the HMRC under the self-assessment regime and for reimbursing the Company or the Employer (as
appropriate) for the value of any employee national insurance contributions due on this additional benefit.       Venezuela
       Securities Law Information.  The RSUs granted under the Plan and the shares of Common Stock issued under the Plan are offered as a
personal, private, exclusive transaction and are not subject to Venezuelan securities regulations.       Exchange Control Information. 
Exchange control restrictions may limit the ability to remit funds out of Venezuela in order to receive shares of Common Stock upon vesting of the RSUs, or remit funds into Venezuela following the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired upon vesting
of the RSUs. The Company reserves the right to restrict settlement of the RSUs or to amend or cancel the RSUs at any time in order to comply with applicable exchange control laws in Venezuela. Any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan are
intended to be an investment rather than for the resale and conversion of the shares into foreign currency. You are responsible for complying with exchange control laws in Venezuela and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any
fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable laws. Because exchange control laws and regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult with you personal legal advisor before accepting the RSUs and
before selling any shares of Common Stock acquired upon vesting of the RSUs to ensure compliance with current regulations.   
         31   

</EX-10.QQ>

<EX-10.RR>
 18
 d450621dex10rr.htm
 EX-10.RR

EX-10.rr 

Exhibit 10rr    

MARKET SHARE UNITS AGREEMENT    
  UNDER THE BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY      2012 STOCK AWARD AND INCENTIVE PLAN      BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY, a Delaware
corporation (the  Company ), has granted to you the Market Share Units ( MSUs ) specified in the Grant Summary, which is incorporated into this Market Share Units Agreement (the  Agreement ) and deemed to be a part
hereof. The MSUs have been granted to you under Sections 6(i) and 7 of the 2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), on the terms and conditions specified in the Grant Summary and this Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this
Agreement that are not specifically defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.       

1.  
   MARKET SHARE UNITS AWARD      
  The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the
 Committee ) has granted to you as of March 10, 2013 (the  Award Date ) an Award of MSUs as designated herein subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan. Each MSU shall
represent the conditional right to receive, upon settlement of the MSU, one share of Bristol-Myers Squibb Common Stock ( Common Stock ), or, at the discretion of the Company, the cash equivalent thereof, (subject to any tax withholding as
described in Section 4). MSUs include the right to receive dividend equivalents as specified in Section 5 ( Dividend Equivalents and Adjustments ). The purpose of such Award is to motivate and retain you as an employee of the
Company or a subsidiary of the Company, to encourage you to continue to give your best efforts for the Company s future success, to increase your proprietary interest in the Company, and to further align your compensation with the interests of
the Company s shareholders. Except as may be required by law, you are not required to make any payment (other than payments for taxes pursuant to Section 4 hereof) or provide any consideration other than the rendering of future services to
the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.       

2.  
   RESTRICTIONS, FORFEITURES, AND SETTLEMENT         Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2, MSUs shall be subject to the restrictions and conditions set forth herein during the Restricted Period (as defined below). Vesting of the MSUs is
conditioned upon you remaining continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company from the Award Date until the relevant vesting date, subject to the provisions of this Section 2. In addition, for purposes of vesting, the MSU
grant shall be divided into four tranches, each of which shall include 25% of the number of MSUs specified in the Grant Summary and any additional MSUs and/or cash that results from Dividend Equivalents that are attributable to the MSUs in that
tranche.      Assuming satisfaction of such employment conditions, the MSUs shall vest only if the Share Price (as defined below)
on the applicable Measurement Date (as defined below) equals at least 60% of the Share Price on the Award Date. If this threshold condition is satisfied, MSUs shall vest to the extent provided in the following schedule:   
         1   

(A)   
   Tranche    
      
     (B)   
   MSUs in   
   Tranche    
      
     (C)   
   Vesting Date    
      
     (D)   
   Payout Factor    
      
     (E)   
   Number of MSUs       Vested     

1   
      
  25% of Total  
      
  1   st    Anniversary of Award Date  
      
  Share Price on Measurement Date divided by Share Price on Award Date  
      
  MSUs in Tranche (Column B)  times  Payout Factor (Column D)   

2   
      
  25% of Total  
      
  2   nd    Anniversary of Award Date  
      
  Share Price on Measurement Date divided by Share Price on Award Date  
      
  MSUs in Tranche (Column B)  times  Payout Factor (Column D)   

3   
      
  25% of Total  
      
  3   rd    Anniversary of Award Date  
      
  Share Price on Measurement Date divided by Share Price on Award Date  
      
  MSUs in Tranche (Column B)  times  Payout Factor (Column D)   

4   
      
  25% of Total  
      
  4   th    Anniversary of Award Date  
      
  Share Price on Measurement Date divided by Share Price on Award Date  
      
  MSUs in Tranche (Column B)  times  Payout Factor (Column D)   
    For purposes of the table set forth above    

(A)  
   Share Price  shall equal the average of the closing share price of the Company s Common Stock on the Measurement Date or Award Date, as applicable, and
the nine trading days immediately preceding the Measurement Date or Award Date. If there were no trades on the Measurement Date or Award Date, the closing price on the most recent date preceding the Measurement Date or Award Date, as applicable, on
which there were trades and the nine trading days immediately preceding that date shall be used.         

(B)  
   Payout Factor  shall be rounded to the nearest hundredth (two places after the decimal), except that if the  Payout Factor  equals more than 2.00,
the Payout Factor used in Column E shall be 2.00. Notwithstanding the formula in the table, the Payout Factor for any vesting date that occurs on or after a Change in Control shall equal the Share Price on the date of the Change in Control divided
by the Share Price on the Award Date.         

(C)  
   Measurement Date  shall mean the February 28 immediately preceding the vesting date for each tranche.     
  Any MSUs that fail to vest, either because the employment condition is not satisfied or because the Payout Factor for the applicable
vesting date is less than 60% shall be forfeited, subject to the special provisions set forth in Sections 2(c)-(g) hereof.       

(a)  
   Nontransferability . During the Restricted Period and any further period prior to settlement of your MSUs, you may not sell, transfer, pledge or assign any of the
MSUs or your rights relating thereto.         

(b)  
     Time of Settlement . MSUs shall be settled promptly upon expiration of the Restricted Period without forfeiture of the MSUs (i.e., upon vesting),
but in any event within 60 days of expiration of the Restricted Period, by delivery of one share of Common Stock for each MSU being settled, or, at the discretion of the Company, the cash equivalent thereof; provided, however, that settlement of an
MSU shall be subject to Plan Section 11(k), including, if applicable, the six-month delay rule in Plan Section 11(k)(i)(C) to the extent the MSUs are subject to Section 409A of the Code, payment is on account of your  separation
from service  and you are a  key employee,  both within the meaning of      
         2   

Section 409A. ( Note: This rule may apply to any portion of the MSUs that vest after the time you become Retirement eligible under the Plan, and could apply in other cases as well ).
Settlement of MSUs which directly or indirectly result from non-cash Dividend Equivalents on MSUs or adjustments to MSUs shall occur at the time of settlement of the granted MSUs. Until shares are delivered to you in settlement of MSUs, you shall
have none of the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to the shares issuable in settlement of the MSUs, including the right to vote the shares and receive actual dividends and other distributions on the underlying shares of Common
Stock (you are entitled to Dividend Equivalents, however). Shares of stock issuable in settlement of MSUs shall be delivered to you upon settlement in certificated form or in such other manner as the Company may reasonably determine. At that time,
you will have all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company.         

(c)  
     Retirement . In the event of your Retirement (as that term is defined in Plan Section 2(v)(i)) at or after your 65   th    birthday and prior to the end of the Restricted Period, the
continuous employment requirement shall be eliminated and you shall vest in and be entitled to settlement of (i.e., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) any MSUs that have not previously been vested or forfeited, provided that you
have been continuously employed by the Company (or a subsidiary) for at least one year following the Award Date and your employment has not been terminated by the Company (or a subsidiary) for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the
interests of the Company. Any MSU that vests upon your Retirement shall vest based on the Payout Factor determined by substituting for the Measurement Date either (i) the first trading day of the first month following your last day of work;
(ii) your last day of work if such date occurs on the first trading day of a month; or (iii) the date of a Change in Control, if a Change in Control has occurred before your Retirement.      

(d)  
   Early Retirement; Termination not for Misconduct/Detrimental Conduct . This Section 2(d) shall apply in the event of (1) your Retirement (as that term
is defined in Plan Sections 2(v)(ii) or 2(v)(iii)) (A) at or after age 55 with at least 10 years of service or (B) after attaining eligibility for the  Rule of 70  or (2) the termination of your employment by the Company (or
a subsidiary) for reasons other than misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company (and you are not eligible for Retirement). If one of the events described in the preceding sentence occurs before the end of the
Restricted Period, the continuous employment requirement shall be eliminated and you shall vest in and be entitled to settlement of (i.e., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) a proportionate number of the MSUs that would otherwise
have vested on the vesting date that next follows the date on which the event occurs, provided that you have been continuously employed by the Company (or a subsidiary) for at least one year following the Award Date and your employment has not been
terminated by the Company (or a subsidiary) for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company. Any MSU that vests upon your early Retirement or termination shall vest based on the Payout Factor determined by
substituting for the Measurement Date either (i) the first trading day of the first month following your last day of work; (ii) your last day of work if such date occurs on the first trading day of a month; or (iii) the date of a
Change in Control, if a Change in Control has occurred before your early Retirement or termination. If you are employed in the United States (including in Puerto Rico), and you are not eligible for Retirement (as that term is defined in Plan
Sections 2(v)(i) or 2(v)(ii)), you shall be entitled to the pro rata vesting described in the preceding sentence only if you execute and do not revoke a release in favor of the Company and its predecessors, successors, affiliates, subsidiaries,
directors and employees in a form satisfactory to the Company and, where deemed applicable by the Company, you execute a non-compete and/or a non-solicitation agreement; if you fail to execute the non-compete or non-solicitation agreement, or fail
to execute or revoke the release, you shall forfeit any MSUs that are unvested as of the date your employment terminates. The formula for determining the proportionate number of your MSUs to become vested and non-forfeitable upon your early
Retirement or involuntary termination not for misconduct or other detrimental conduct is available by request from the Office of the Corporate Secretary at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154.     
         3   

(e)  
   Death . In the event of your death during the Restricted Period, the continuous employment requirement shall be eliminated and your estate shall vest in and be
entitled to settlement of (i.e., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) a proportionate number of the MSUs that would otherwise have vested, provided that you have been continuously employed by the Company for at least one year
following the Award Date. Any MSU that vests upon your death shall vest based on the Payout Factor determined by substituting for the Measurement Date either (i) the first trading day of the first month following your last day of work;
(ii) your last day of work if such date occurs on the first trading day of a month; or (iii) the date of a Change in Control, if a Change in Control has occurred before your death. The formula for determining the proportionate number of
your MSUs to become vested and non-forfeitable upon your death is available by request from the Office of the Corporate Secretary at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154. In the event of your death prior to the delivery of shares in settlement
of MSUs (not previously forfeited), shares in settlement of your MSUs shall be delivered to your estate, upon presentation to the Committee of letters testamentary or other documentation satisfactory to the Committee, and your estate shall succeed
to any other rights provided hereunder in the event of your death.         

(f)  
   Disability . In the event you become Disabled (as that term is defined below), for the period during which you continue to be deemed to be employed by the Company
or a subsidiary (i.e., the period during which you receive Disability benefits), you will not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of the MSUs. Upon the termination of your receipt of Disability benefits, (i) you will not be
deemed to have terminated employment if you return to employment status, and (ii) if you do not return to employment status, you will be deemed to have terminated employment at the date of cessation of payments to you under all disability pay
plans of the Company and its subsidiaries, with such termination treated for purposes of the MSUs as a Retirement, death, or voluntary termination based on your circumstances at the time of such termination. For purposes of this Agreement,
 Disability  or  Disabled  shall mean qualifying for and receiving payments under a disability plan of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate either in the United States or in a jurisdiction outside of the United States, and
in jurisdictions outside of the United States shall also include qualifying for and receiving payments under a mandatory or universal disability plan or program managed or maintained by the government.     

(g)  
   Qualifying Termination Following Change in Control . In the event your employment is terminated by reason of a Qualifying Termination during the Protected Period
following a Change in Control, the continuous employment requirement shall be eliminated and you shall vest in and be entitled to settlement of (i.e., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) any MSUs that have not previously been
forfeited. Any MSU that vests following a Qualifying Termination during the applicable Protected Period following a Change in Control shall vest based on the Payout Factor determined by substituting for the Measurement Date the date of the Change in
Control.         

(h)  
   Other Termination of Employment . In the event of your voluntary termination, or termination by the Company or a subsidiary for misconduct or other conduct deemed
by the Company to be detrimental to the interests of the Company, you shall forfeit all unvested MSUs on the date of termination.         

(i)  
   Other Terms .         

(i)  
  In the event that you fail promptly to pay or make satisfactory arrangements as to the Tax Related Items as provided in Section 4, all MSUs subject to restriction
shall be forfeited by you and shall be deemed to be reacquired by the Company.     
         4   

(ii)  
  You may, at any time prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, waive all rights with respect to all or some of the MSUs by delivering to the Company a written
notice of such waiver.         

(iii)  
  Termination of employment includes any event if immediately thereafter you are no longer an employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, subject to
Section 2(j) hereof. References in this Section 2 to employment by the Company include employment by a subsidiary of the Company. Termination of employment means an event after which you are no longer employed by the Company or any
subsidiary of the Company. Such an event could include the disposition of a subsidiary or business unit by the Company or a subsidiary.         

(iv)  
  Upon any termination of your employment, any MSUs as to which the Restricted Period has not expired at or before such termination shall be forfeited, subject to
Sections 2(c)-(g) hereof. Other provisions of this Agreement notwithstanding, in no event will an MSU that has been forfeited thereafter vest or be settled.     

(v)  
  In the event of termination of your employment or other service relationship (for any reason whatsoever, whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of
employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or determined by the Company, your right to vest in the MSU under the Plan, if any, will
terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively providing services and will not be extended by any notice period ( e.g. , active services would not include any contractual notice period or any period of  garden
leave  or similar period mandated under employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively
providing services for purposes of your Award of MSUs.         

(j)  
  The following events shall not be deemed a termination of employment:         

(i)  
  A transfer of you from the Company to a subsidiary, or vice versa, or from one subsidiary to another;     

(ii)  
  A leave of absence, duly authorized in writing by the Company, for military service or sickness or for any other purpose approved by the Company if the period of such
leave does not exceed ninety (90) days; and         

(iii)  
  A leave of absence in excess of ninety (90) days, duly authorized in writing, by the Company, provided your right to reemployment is guaranteed either by a statute
or by contract.        However, your failure to return to active service with the Company or a subsidiary at the end of
an approved leave of absence shall be deemed a termination of employment, subject to local law. During a leave of absence as defined in (ii) or (iii), although you will be considered to have been continuously employed by the Company or a
subsidiary and not to have had a termination of employment under this Section 2, the Committee may specify that such leave period shall not be counted in determining the period of employment for purposes of the vesting of the MSUs. In such
case, the vesting dates for unvested MSUs shall be extended by the length of any such leave of absence and any such MSU that vests thereafter shall vest based on the Payout Factor determined by substituting for the Measurement Date the applicable
vesting date.   
         5   

3.  
   FORFEITURE IN THE EVENT OF COMPETITION AND/OR SOLICITATION OR OTHER ACTS         You acknowledge that your continued employment with the Company or a subsidiary and the grant of MSUs is sufficient consideration for this Agreement, including, without limitation, the restrictions
imposed upon you by this Section 3.       

(a)  
  By accepting the MSUs, you expressly agree and covenant that during the Restricted Period (as defined below) and the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period (as
defined below), you shall not, without the prior consent of the Company, directly or indirectly:         

(i)  
  own or have any financial interest in a Competitive Business (as defined below), except that nothing in this clause shall prevent you from owning one percent or less of
the outstanding securities of any entity whose securities are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange (including NASDAQ) or an equivalent foreign exchange;     

(ii)  
  be actively connected with a Competitive Business by managing, operating, controlling, being an employee or consultant (or accepting an offer to be an employee or
consultant) or otherwise advising or assisting a Competitive Business in such a way that such connection might result in an increase in value or worth of any product, technology or service, that competes with any product, technology or service upon
which you worked or about which you became familiar as a result of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate. You may, however, be actively connected with a Competitive Business after your employment with the Company or a
subsidiary terminates for any reason, so long as your connection to the business does not involve any product, technology or service, that competes with any product, technology or service upon which you worked or about which you became familiar as a
result of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary and the Company is provided written assurances of this fact from the Competing Company prior to your beginning such connection;     

(iii)  
  take any action that might divert any opportunity from the Company or any of its affiliates, successors or assigns (the  Related Parties ) that is within the
scope of the present or future operations or business of any Related Parties;         

(iv)  
  employ, solicit for employment, advise or recommend to any other person that they employ or solicit for employment or form an association with any person who is
employed by the Company or its Related Parties or who has been employed by the Company or its Related Parties within one year of the date your employment with the Company or a subsidiary ceased for any reason whatsoever;     

(v)  
  contact, call upon or solicit any customer of the Company, or attempt to divert or take away from the Company the business of any of its customers;

(vi)  
  contact, call upon or solicit any prospective customer of the Company that you became aware of or were introduced to in the course of your duties for the Company or its
Related Parties, or otherwise divert or take away from the Company the business of any prospective customer of the Company; or         

(vii)  
  engage in any activity that is harmful to the interests of the Company, including without limitation, any conduct during the term of your employment that violates the
Company s Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics, securities trading policy and other policies.     
         6   

(b)  
   Forfeiture . If the Company determines that you have violated any provisions of Section 3(a) above during the Restricted Period or the Non-Competition and
Non-Solicitation Period, then you agree and covenant that:         

(i)  
  any unvested portion of the MSUs shall be immediately rescinded;         

(ii)  
  you shall automatically forfeit any rights you may have with respect to the MSUs as of the date of such determination;     

(iii)  
  if any part of the MSUs vests within the twelve-month period immediately preceding a violation of Section 3(a) above (or following the date of any such violation),
upon the Company s demand, you shall immediately deliver to it a certificate or certificates for shares of the Company s Common Stock that you acquired upon settlement of such MSUs (or an equivalent number of other shares); and

(iv)  
  the foregoing remedies set forth in this Section 3(b) shall not be the Company s exclusive remedies. The Company reserves all other rights and remedies
available to it at law or in equity.         

(c)  
   Company Policy . You agree that the Company may recover any incentive-based compensation received by you under this Agreement if such recovery is pursuant to a
clawback or recoupment policy approved by the Committee.         

(d)  
   Definitions . For purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply:     

(i)  
  The Company directly advertises and solicits business from customers wherever they may be found and its business is thus worldwide in scope. Therefore,
 Competitive Business  means any person or entity that engages in any business activity that competes with the Company s business in any way, in any geographic area in which the Company engages in business, including, without
limitation, any state in the United States in which the Company sells or offers to sell its products from time to time.         

(ii)  
   Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period  means the period during which you are employed by the Company and twelve months following the date that you
cease to be employed by the Company for any reason whatsoever.         

(iii)  
   Restricted Period  means, with respect to each MSU, the period from the Award Date until the date such MSU has become vested and non-forfeitable.

(e)  
   Severability . You acknowledge and agree that the period, scope and geographic areas of restriction imposed upon you by the provisions of Section 3 are fair
and reasonable and are reasonably required for the protection of the Company. In the event that all or any part of this Section 3 is held to be unenforceable or invalid, the remaining parts of Section 3 and this Agreement shall
nevertheless continue to be valid and enforceable as though the invalid portions were not a part of this Agreement. If any one of the provisions in Section 3 is held to be excessively broad as to period, scope and geographic areas, any such
provision shall be construed by limiting it to the extent necessary to be enforceable under applicable law.         

(f)  
   Additional Remedies . You acknowledge that breach by you of this Agreement would cause irreparable harm to the Company and that in the event of such breach, the
Company shall have, in addition to monetary damages and other remedies at law, the right to an injunction, specific performance and other equitable relief to prevent violations of your obligations hereunder.     
         7   

4.  
   RESPONSIBILITY   FOR TAXES         You acknowledge that, regardless of any action taken by the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate or your employer ( Employer ), the ultimate liability for all income tax (including federal,
state, local and non-U.S. taxes), social security, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you or deemed by the Company or the Employer to be
an appropriate charge to you even if legally applicable to the Company or the Employer ( Tax-Related Items ) is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further
acknowledge that the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate and/or the Employer: (a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Related Items in connection with any aspect of the MSUs, including the grant of the
MSUs, the vesting of MSUs, the conversion of the MSUs into Common Stock or the receipt of an equivalent cash payment, the subsequent sale of any Common Stock acquired at vesting and the receipt of any dividends and/or Dividend Equivalents; and,
(b) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the MSUs to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if you are subject to Tax-Related Items in more than one
jurisdiction between the Award Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax Related Items in more than one
jurisdiction.      Prior to the relevant taxable event, you agree to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company or the
Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items. In this regard, by your acceptance of the MSUs, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax-Related
Items by one or a combination of the following:       

(a)  
  withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer; or     

(b)  
  withholding from proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired upon settlement of the MSUs either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale
arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent); or         

(c)  
  withholding in shares of Common Stock to be issued upon settlement of the MSUs;        provided, however, if you are a Section 16 officer of the Company under the Exchange Act, then the Company will withhold shares of Common Stock upon the relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as
applicable, unless the use of such withholding method is problematic under applicable tax or securities law or has materially adverse accounting consequences, in which case, the obligation for Tax-Related Items may be satisfied by one or a
combination of methods (a) and (b) above.      Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account
for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates, in which case, you will receive a refund of any over-withheld amount in cash and will have
no entitlement to the Common Stock equivalent. If the obligation for Tax Related Items is satisfied by withholding in shares of Common Stock, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of shares of Common Stock subject to
the vested MSUs, notwithstanding that a number of the shares of Common Stock are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items.      Finally, you agree to pay to the Company or the Employer, including through withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer, any amount of Tax-Related
Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the shares or the
proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock, if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items.   
         8   

Notwithstanding anything in this Section 4 to the contrary, to avoid a prohibited
acceleration under Section 409A, if shares of Common Stock subject to MSUs will be sold on your behalf (or withheld) to satisfy any Tax-Related Items arising prior to the date of settlement of the MSUs for any portion of the MSUs that is
considered nonqualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A, then the number of shares sold on your behalf (or withheld) shall not exceed the number of shares that equals the liability for Tax-Related Items.   

5.  
   DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS AND ADJUSTMENTS          

(a)  
  Dividend Equivalents shall be paid or credited on MSUs (other than MSUs that, at the relevant record date, previously have been settled or forfeited) as follows, except
that the Committee may specify an alternative treatment from that specified in (i), (ii), or (iii) below for any dividend or distribution:         

(i)  
     Cash Dividends . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of cash, then you will be credited, as
of the payment date for such dividend or distribution, an amount equal to the number of MSUs credited to you as of the record date for such dividend or distribution, multiplied by the amount that would have been paid as a dividend or distribution on
each outstanding share of Common Stock at such payment date. Any payment made under this Section 5(a)(i) shall be included as part of your regular payroll payment as soon as administratively practicable after the settlement date for the
underlying MSU and shall be subject to the Payout Factor that applies to the underlying MSU. At the time the underlying MSU becomes payable, the Company has the discretion to pay any accrued Dividend Equivalents either in cash or in shares of Common
Stock. If the underlying MSU does not vest or is forfeited, any amounts credited under this Section 5(a)(i) with respect to the underlying MSU also will fail to vest and will be forfeited.      

(ii)  
     Non-Share Dividends . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of property other than shares, then
a number of additional MSUs shall be credited to you as of the payment date for such dividend or distribution equal to (A) the number of MSUs credited to you as of the record date for such dividend or distribution, multiplied by (B) the
Fair Market Value of such property actually paid as a dividend or distribution on each outstanding share of Common Stock at such payment date, divided by (C) the Fair Market Value of a share at such payment date. Any MSUs payable under this
Section 5(a)(ii) shall be settled on the settlement date for the underlying MSU and shall be subject to the Payout Factor that applies to the underlying MSU. If the underlying MSU does not vest or is forfeited, any MSUs credited under this
Section 5(a)(ii) with respect to the underlying MSU also will fail to vest and will be forfeited. You will be eligible to receive Dividend Equivalents on any MSUs credited to you under this Section 5(a)(ii).      

(iii)  
   Common Stock Dividends and Splits . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of additional shares, or there occurs
a forward split of Common Stock, then a number of additional MSUs shall be credited to you as of the payment date for such dividend or distribution or forward split equal to (A) the number of MSUs credited to you as of the record date for such
dividend or distribution or split, multiplied by (B) the number of additional shares actually paid as a dividend or distribution or issued in such split in respect of each outstanding share of Common Stock. Any MSUs payable under this
Section 5(a)(iii) shall be settled on the settlement date for the underlying MSU and shall be subject to the Payout Factor that applies to the underlying MSU. If the underlying MSU does not vest or is forfeited, any MSUs credited under this
Section 5(a)(iii) with respect to the underlying MSU also will fail to vest and will be forfeited. You will be eligible to receive Dividend Equivalents on any MSUs credited to you under this Section 5(a)(iii).     
         9   

(b)  
  The number of your MSUs and other related terms shall be appropriately adjusted, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of your rights with respect to MSUs, to
reflect any changes in the outstanding shares of Common Stock resulting from any event referred to in Plan Section 11(c) or any other  equity restructuring  as defined in FASB ASC Topic 718, taking into account any MSUs credited to
you in connection with such event under Section 5(a).         

(c)  
  When the Dividend Equivalents you receive under this Section 5, if any, become payable to you, they will be compensation (wages) for tax purposes and, if you are a
U.S. taxpayer, will be included on your W-2 form. The Company will be required to withhold applicable taxes on such Dividend Equivalents. The Company may deduct such taxes in the manner set forth in Section 4 hereof.     

6.  
   EFFECT ON OTHER BENEFITS      
  In no event shall the value, at any time, of the MSUs or any other payment under this Agreement be included as compensation or earnings
for purposes of any other compensation, retirement, or benefit plan offered to employees of the Company or any subsidiary unless otherwise specifically provided for in such plan. The MSUs and the underlying shares of Common Stock (or their cash
equivalent), and the income and value of the same, are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes including, but not limited to, calculation of any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy or end-of-service
payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits, or similar payments.       

7.  
   ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NATURE OF PLAN AND MSUs         In accepting the MSUs, you acknowledge, understand and agree that:       

(a)  
  The Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, to
the extent permitted by the Plan;         

(b)  
  The Award of MSUs is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of MSUs, or benefits in lieu of MSUs even if
MSUs have been awarded in the past;         

(c)  
  All decisions with respect to future awards of MSUs or other awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;     

(d)  
  Your participation in the Plan is voluntary;         

(e)  
  The MSUs and the Common Stock subject to the MSUs are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation;     

(f)  
  The future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with certainty;     

(g)  
    No claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the forfeiture of MSUs, resulting from termination of your employment or other service
relationship with the Company, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of
your employment agreement, if any), and in consideration of the grant of the MSUs to which you are otherwise not entitled, you irrevocably agree never to institute any claim against the Company, any of
     
         10   

its subsidiaries or affiliates or the Employer, waive your ability, if any, to bring such claim, and release the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate and/or the Employer from any such claim; if,
notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by participating in the Plan, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agree to execute any and all documents
necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claim.         

(h)  
  Unless otherwise provided in the Plan or by the Company in its discretion, the MSUs and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have
the MSUs or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the shares of the Company; and     

(i)  
  The following provisions apply only if you are providing services outside the United States: (i) the Award and the shares of Common Stock subject to the MSUs are
not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose; and (ii) you acknowledge and agree that neither the Company, the Employer nor any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate
fluctuation between your local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the MSUs or of any amounts due to you pursuant to the settlement of the MSUs or the subsequent sale of any shares of Common Stock acquired upon
settlement.         

8.  
   NO ADVICE REGARDING GRANT      
  The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your
participation in the Plan or your acquisition or sale of the underlying shares of Common Stock. You are hereby advised to consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Plan before taking any
action related to the Plan.       

9.  
   RIGHT TO CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT         Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate or any specific position or level of employment with the Company
or any subsidiary or affiliate or affect in any way the right of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate to terminate your employment without prior notice at any time for any reason or no reason.   

10.  
   ADMINISTRATION; UNFUNDED OBLIGATIONS         The Committee shall have full authority and discretion, subject only to the express terms of the Plan, to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this
Agreement, and all such Committee determinations shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate, you, and all interested parties. Any provision for distribution in settlement of your MSUs and other obligations
hereunder (including cash amounts set aside under Section 5(a)(i)) shall be by means of bookkeeping entries on the books of the Company and shall not create in you or any beneficiary any right to, or claim against any, specific assets of the
Company, nor result in the creation of any trust or escrow account for you or any beneficiary. You and any of your beneficiaries entitled to any settlement or distribution hereunder shall be a general creditor of the Company.   
   
    You
are required to accept the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement prior to the first vest date in order for you to receive the Award granted to you hereunder. If you wish to decline this Award, you must reject this Agreement prior to the
first vest date. For your benefit, if you have not rejected the Agreement prior to the first vest date, you will be deemed to have automatically accepted this Award and all the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. Deemed acceptance will
allow the shares to be released to you in a timely manner.   
         11   

This
Agreement shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, as amended from time to time, except that, subject to Sections 19 and 22 below, the Award which is the subject of this Agreement may not be materially adversely affected by any amendment or
termination of the Plan approved after the Award Date without your written consent.       

13.  
   SEVERABILITY AND VALIDITY      
  The various provisions of this Agreement are severable, and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise
unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.       

14.  
   GOVERNING LAW, JURISDICTION AND VENUE         This Agreement and Award grant shall be governed by the substantive laws (but not the choice of law rules) of the State of New York. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises under this MSU grant
or Agreement, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of New York, agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of New York, New York, or the federal courts for the United States for the Southern
District of New York, and no other courts where this MSU grant is made and/or performed.       
    This
Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors, assigns, and heirs of the respective parties.       
      You
hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, your Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries for the
exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.          You understand
that the Company, any subsidiary and/or your Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security number or other identification number,
salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all MSUs or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing,
administering and managing the Plan ( Data ).          You understand that Data may be transferred to Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which assists in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. You understand that the recipients of the Data may be
located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country (e.g. the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may
request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the Company, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney and other possible recipients which may assist the
Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your
participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the shares of Common Stock received upon vesting of the MSUs may be deposited. You understand that
Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the
storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data     
         12   

or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting your local human resources representative. Further, you understand that you are providing the consents herein on
a purely voluntary basis. If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing or withdrawing your
consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you MSUs or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For
more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.     

17.  
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY AND ACCEPTANCE         The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by
electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic systems established and maintained by the Company or a third-party designated by the Company.   
   
    If you have
received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.   

19.  
   COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS         Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan or this Agreement, unless there is an available exemption from any registration, qualification or other legal requirement applicable to the shares of
Common Stock, you understand that the Company will not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock pursuant to the vesting of the MSUs, if the issuance of such Common Stock shall constitute a violation by you or the Company of any provision of
law or regulation of any governmental authority. Further, you agree that the Company shall have unilateral authority to amend the Plan and the Agreement without your consent to the extent necessary to comply with securities or other laws applicable
to issuance of shares. Any determination by the Company in this regard shall be final, binding and conclusive.       

20.  
   ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND NO ORAL MODIFICATION OR WAIVER         This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties. This Agreement shall not be modified or amended except in writing duly signed by the parties, except that the Company may adopt a
modification or amendment to the Agreement that is not materially adverse to you in writing signed only by the Company. Any waiver of any right or failure to perform under this Agreement shall be in writing signed by the party granting the waiver
and shall not be deemed a waiver of any subsequent failure to perform.       
    Your MSUs shall
be subject to any special provisions set forth in the Addendum to this Agreement for your country, if any. If you relocate to one of the countries included in the Addendum during the Restricted Period, the special provisions for such country shall
apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such provisions is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons. The Addendum, if any, constitutes part of this Agreement.   
         13   

22.  
   IMPOSITION OF OTHER REQUIREMENTS         The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the MSUs and on any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines
it is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.   

For the Company      
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company    

By  

I have read this Agreement in its entirety. I understand that this Award has been granted to
provide a means for me to acquire and/or expand an ownership position in Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. I acknowledge and agree that sales of shares will be subject to the Company s policies regulating trading by employees. In accepting this
Award, I hereby agree that Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, or such other vendor as the Company may choose to administer the Plan, may provide the Company with any and all account information for the administration of this Award.   
  I hereby agree to all the terms, restrictions and conditions set forth in the Agreement.   
         14   

Addendum        BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY        SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR MSUs IN CERTAIN
COUNTRIES       This Addendum includes special country-specific terms that apply to residents in the countries listed below. This Addendum is
part of the Agreement. Unless otherwise provided below, capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Agreement.      This Addendum also includes information of which you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Plan. For example, certain individual exchange control reporting requirements may apply upon
vesting of the MSUs and/or sale of Common Stock. The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws in effect in the respective countries as of January 2013 and is provided for informational purposes. Such laws are often
complex and change frequently, and results may be different based on the particular facts and circumstances. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you do not rely on the information noted herein as the only source of information relating
to the consequences of your participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at the time your MSUs vest or are settled, or you sell shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan.   
  In addition, the information is general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of
any particular result. Accordingly, you are advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation.      Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you currently are working, transfer employment after the MSUs are granted to you, or are considered a resident of another
country for local law purposes, the information contained herein for the country you are working in at the time of grant may not be applicable to you, and the Company shall, in its discretion, determine to what extent the terms and conditions
contained herein shall be applicable to you. If you transfer residency and/or employment to another country or are considered a resident of another country listed in the Addendum after the MSUs are granted to you, the terms and/or information
contained for that new country (rather than the original grant country) may be applicable to you.       Algeria    
   Exchange Control Information.  Proceeds from the sale of Common Stock and the receipt of any dividends must be repatriated to Algeria.  
       Argentina    
   Securities Law Information.  Neither the MSUs nor the underlying shares of Common Stock are publicly offered or listed on any stock exchange in
Argentina. The offer is private and not subject to the supervision of any Argentine governmental authority.       Exchange Control
Information . In the event that you transfer proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock or any cash dividends paid on such shares into Argentina within 10 days of receipt (i.e., if the proceeds have not been held in the offshore bank or
brokerage account for at least 10 days prior to transfer), you will be required to deposit 30% of any proceeds in a non-interest bearing deposit account for a 365 day holding period. In any event, the Argentine bank handling the transaction may
request certain documentation in connection with your request to transfer proceeds into Argentina, including evidence of the sale and proof that no funds were remitted out of Argentina to acquire the shares of Common Stock. If the bank determines
that the 10-day rule or any other rule or regulation promulgated by the Argentine Central Bank has not been satisfied, it may require that 30% of the proceeds be placed in a non-interest bearing dollar denominated mandatory deposit account for a
holding period of 365 days. Please note that exchange control regulations in Argentina are subject to frequent change. You are solely responsible for complying with any exchange control laws that may apply to you as a result of participating in the
Plan and/or the transfer of funds in connection with the award. You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding any exchange control obligations that you may have.   
         15   

Australia        Securities Law Information.  If you acquire shares of Common Stock pursuant to your MSUs and you offer your shares of Common Stock for sale to a person or entity resident in Australia, your offer
may be subject to disclosure requirements under Australian law. You should obtain legal advice on your disclosure obligations prior to making any such offer.       Exchange Control Information.  Exchange control reporting is required for cash transactions exceeding AUD10,000 and for international fund transfers. The Australian bank assisting with the
transaction will file the report for you. If there is no Australian bank involved in the transfer, you will have to file the report.       Austria        Exchange Control Information.  If you hold shares of Common Stock purchased
under the Plan outside of Austria (even if you hold them outside of Austria at a branch of an Austrian bank), you will be required to submit a report to the Austrian National Bank as follows: (i) on a quarterly basis if the value of the Common
Stock as of any given quarter exceeds  30,000,000; and (ii) on an annual basis if the value of the Common Stock as of December 31 exceeds  5,000,000.      When shares of Common Stock are sold, there may be exchange control obligations if the cash proceeds from the sale are held outside Austria. If the transaction volume of all your cash accounts abroad
exceeds  3,000,000, the movements and the balance of all accounts must be reported monthly, as of the last day of the month, on or before the fifteenth day of the following month. If the transaction value of all cash accounts abroad is less
than  3,000,000, no ongoing reporting requirements apply.       Belgium    
   Tax Reporting Information.  If you are a Belgian resident, you are required to report any security or bank account (including brokerage accounts)
you maintain outside of Belgium on your annual tax return.       Brazil    
   Compliance with Laws.  By accepting the MSUs, you agree that you will comply with Brazilian law when you vest in the MSUs and sell shares of Common
Stock. You also agree to report and pay any and all taxes associated with the vesting of the MSUs, the sale of the shares of Common Stock acquired pursuant to the Plan and the receipt of any dividends or Dividend Equivalents.   
   Exchange Control Information.  You must prepare and submit a declaration of assets and rights held outside of Brazil to the Central Bank on an
annual basis if you hold assets or rights valued at more than US$100,000. The assets and rights that must be reported include shares of Common Stock.       Canada        Settlement of MSUs.  Notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or
the Agreement to the contrary, MSUs will be settled in shares of Common Stock only, not cash.       Securities Law Information.  You
acknowledge and agree that you will only sell shares of Common Stock acquired through participation in the Plan outside of Canada through the facilities of a stock exchange on which the Common Stock is listed. Currently, the shares of Common Stock
are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.   
         16   

Termination of Employment.  This provision replaces the second paragraph of Section 2(i)(v) of
the Agreement:      In the event of your termination of employment or other service relationship (for any reason whatsoever, whether or not later
found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), your right to vest in the MSUs will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of
(1) the date you are no longer actively providing service or (2) the date you receive notice of termination of employment from the Employer, regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under applicable
laws (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively employed for purposes of the MSUs.   
   The following provisions apply if you are resident in Quebec:        Language Acknowledgment       The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this
Agreement, including this Addendum, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be provided to them in English.   
   Consentement relatif   la langue utilis e. Les parties reconnaissent avoir express ment souhait  que la convention
( Agreement ) ainsi que cette Annexe, ainsi que tous les documents, avis et proc dures judiciares,  x cut s, donn s ou intent s en vertu de, ou li s directement ou
indirectement   la pr sente convention, soient r dig s en langue anglaise.        Data Privacy.  This
provision supplements Section 16 of the Agreement:      You hereby authorize the Company, the Employer and their representatives to discuss
with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan. You further authorize the Company and its subsidiaries to disclose and discuss the Plan with their advisors.
You further authorize the Company and its subsidiaries to record such information and to keep such information in your employee file.       Chile        Securities Law Information.  Neither the Company, the MSUs nor the shares of
Common Stock you may acquire upon vesting of your MSUs are registered with the Registry of Securities or under the control of the Chilean Superintendence of Securities.       Exchange Control and Tax Information.  You are not required to repatriate proceeds obtained from the sale of Common Stock or from dividends to Chile; however, if you decide to repatriate proceeds
from the sale of Common Stock and/or dividends and the amount of the proceeds to be repatriated exceeds US$10,000, you acknowledge that you must effect such repatriation through the Formal Exchange Market ( i.e ., a commercial bank or
registered foreign exchange office).      Further, if the value of your aggregate investments held outside of Chile exceeds US$5,000,000
(including the value of Common Stock acquired under the Plan), you must report the status of such investments annually to the Central Bank using Annex 3.1 of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations.   
  Finally, if you hold Common Stock acquired under the Plan outside of Chile, you must inform the Chilean Internal Revenue Service (the  CIRS )
of the details of your investment in the Common Stock by Filing Tax Form 1851  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Investments Held Abroad . Further, if you wish to receive credit against your Chilean income taxes for any taxes paid abroad,
you must report the payment of taxes abroad to the CIRS by filing Tax Form 1853  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Credits for Taxes Paid Abroad . These statements must be submitted electronically through the CIRS website before
March 15 of each year.   
         17   

China        The following provisions apply if you are subject to the exchange control regulations in China, as determined by the Company in its sole discretion:    
   Settlement of MSUs and Sale of Common Stock . Due to local regulatory requirements, upon the vesting of the MSUs, you agree to the immediate sale of
any shares of Common Stock to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the MSUs. You further agree that the Company is authorized to instruct its designated broker to assist with the mandatory sale of such shares of Common Stock (on your
behalf pursuant to this authorization) and you expressly authorize the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of such shares of Common Stock. You acknowledge that the Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange
for the sale of the shares of Common Stock at any particular price. Upon the sale of the shares of Common Stock, the Company agrees to pay you the cash proceeds from the sale of the Common Stock, less any brokerage fees or commissions and subject to
any obligation to satisfy Tax Related Items.       Treatment of MSUs Upon Termination of Employment.  Notwithstanding anything in the
Agreement to the contrary, any portion of shares of Common Stock that vests upon termination of your employment will be distributed to you no later than three months from the date of termination, as determined by the Company. If all or a portion of
your MSUs become distributable at some time following your termination of employment, that portion will vest and become distributable immediately upon termination of your employment. Any shares of Common Stock distributed to you according to this
paragraph will be sold immediately upon distribution, as described above.       Exchange Control Information . You understand and agree that,
to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements, you will be required to immediately repatriate to China the cash proceeds from the immediate sale of the shares of Common Stock issued upon the vesting of the MSUs. You further understand
that, under local law, such repatriation of the cash proceeds will be effectuated through a special exchange control account established by the Company or its subsidiaries, and you hereby consent and agree that the proceeds from the sale of shares
of Common Stock acquired under the Plan may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to you. The Company may deliver the proceeds to you in U.S. dollars or local currency at the Company s discretion. If the proceeds are
paid in U.S. dollars, you understand that you will be required to set up a U.S. dollar bank account in China so that the proceeds may be deposited into this account. If the proceeds are converted to local currency, there may be delays in delivering
the proceeds to you and due to fluctuations in the Common Stock trading price and/or the U.S. dollar/PRC exchange rate between the vesting/sale date and (if later) when the sale proceeds can be converted into local currency, the sale proceeds that
you receive may be more or less than the market value of the Common Stock on the vesting/sale date (which is the amount relevant to determining your tax liability). You agree to bear the risk of any currency fluctuation between the date the MSUs
vest and the date of conversion of the proceeds into local currency.        You further agree to comply with any other requirements that may
be imposed by the Company in the future to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in China.       Colombia
       Exchange Control Information.  Investments in assets located outside of Colombia (including Common Stock) are subject to
registration with the Central Bank (Banco de la Rep blica) if the aggregate value of such investments is US$500,000 or more (as of December 31 of the applicable calendar year). Further, upon the sale of any Common Stock that you have
registered with the Central Bank, you must cancel the registration by March 31 of the following year. You may be subject to fines if you fail to cancel such registration.   
         18   

Czech Republic        Exchange Control Information.  The Czech National Bank may require you to fulfill certain notification duties in relation to the MSUs and the opening and maintenance of a foreign account. However,
because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your personal legal advisor prior to the vesting of the MSUs and the sale of shares of Common Stock to ensure compliance with current regulations. It is
your responsibility to comply with any applicable Czech exchange control laws.       Denmark    
   Stock Option Act.  You acknowledge that you have received an Employer Statement in Danish.   
   Exchange Control Information.  If you establish an account holding shares of Common Stock or an account holding cash outside Denmark, you must
report the account to the Danish Tax Administration. The form may be obtained from a local bank. Please note that these obligations are separate from and in addition to the obligations described below.     
   Securities/Tax Reporting Information.  If you hold shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan in a brokerage account with a broker or bank
outside Denmark, you are required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about the account. For this purpose, you must file a Form V (Erklaering V) with the Danish Tax Administration. Both you and the broker or bank must sign the Form V. By signing
the Form V, the broker or bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward information to the Danish Tax
Administration concerning the shares of Common Stock in the account. In the event that the applicable broker or bank with which the account is held does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such
obligation to report, you acknowledge that you are solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account and any shares of Common Stock acquired at vesting and held in such account to the Danish Tax
Administration as part of your annual income tax return. By signing the Form V, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account. A sample of the Form V can be found at the following website:  www.skat.dk .   
  In addition, if you open a brokerage account (or a deposit account with a U.S. bank), the brokerage account likely will be treated as a deposit account
because cash can be held in the account. Therefore, you likely must file a Form K (Erklaering K) with the Danish Tax Administration. The Form K must be signed both by you and by the applicable broker or bank where the account is held. By signing the
Form K, the broker/bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration
concerning the content of the account. In the event that the applicable financial institution (broker or bank) with which the account is held, does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such
obligation to report, you acknowledge that you are solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of your annual income tax return. By signing the Form K, you
authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account. A sample of the Form K can be found at the following  website: www.skat.dk .       Ecuador       There are no country-specific provisions.   
   Egypt        Exchange
Control Information.  If you transfer funds into Egypt in connection with the MSUs, you are required to transfer the funds through a registered bank in Egypt.   
         19   

European Union Member States        Retirement.  The following provision supplements Section 2, 2(c) and 2(d) of the Agreement:      Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the EU Employment Equality Directive has been implemented in your country of employment or residence or if the Company receives a legal opinion that there has been a
legal judgment and/or legal development in your jurisdiction that likely would result in the favorable Retirement treatment that applies to the MSUs under the Plan being deemed unlawful and/or discriminatory, the provision above regarding
termination of employment due to Retirement shall not be applicable to you.       Finland    
  There are no country specific provisions.       France        Language Acknowledgement    
   En signant et renvoyant le pr sent document d crivant les termes et conditions de votre attribution, vous confirmez ainsi avoir lu et
compris les documents relatifs   cette attribution (le Plan et ce Contrat d Attribution) qui vous ont  t  communiqu s en langue anglaise.       By accepting your MSUs, you confirm having read and understood the documents relating to this grant (the Plan and this Agreement) which were provided to you in English.   
   Exchange Control Information.  If you import or export cash ( e.g. , sales proceeds received under the Plan) with a value equal to or
exceeding  10,000 and do not use a financial institution to do so, you must submit a report to the customs and excise authorities.     If you
hold shares of Common Stock outside of France or maintain a foreign bank account, you are required to report such to the French tax authorities when filing your annual tax return. Failure to comply could trigger significant penalties.
      Germany    
   Exchange Control Information.  Cross-border payments in excess of  12,500 must be reported monthly to the German Federal Bank. In the event
that you make or receive a payment in excess of this amount, you are responsible for obtaining the appropriate form from the remitting bank and complying with applicable reporting requirements.   
   Greece       There are no
country-specific provisions.       Hong Kong        Securities Law Information.   Warning: The MSUs and any shares of Common Stock issued at vesting do not constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to
employees of the Company or its subsidiaries. The Agreement, including this Addendum, the Plan and other incidental communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a  prospectus  for a
public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong, nor have the documents been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. The MSUs are intended only for the personal use of each eligible employee of the
Employer, the Company or any subsidiary and may not be distributed to any other person. If you are in any doubt about any of the contents of the Agreement, including this Addendum, or the Plan, or any other incidental communication materials, you
should obtain independent professional advice.     
         20   

Settlement of MSUs and Sale of Common Stock.  Notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or
the Agreement to the contrary, MSUs will be settled in shares of Common Stock only, not cash. In addition, notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, no shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan can be
sold prior to six months from the Award Date.       Nature of Scheme.  The Company specifically intends that the Plan will not be an
occupational retirement scheme for purposes of the Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance ( ORSO ).      
   Hungary       There are no
country-specific provisions.       India        Exchange Control Information.  You must repatriate all proceeds received from the sale of shares of Common Stock and any cash dividends to India within a reasonable time following the sale (i.e.,
within 90 days). You must maintain the foreign inward remittance certificate received from the bank where the foreign currency is deposited in the event that the Reserve Bank of India or the Company or the Employer requests proof of repatriation.
 It is your responsibility to comply with applicable exchange control laws in India.       Effective April 1, 2012, you are required to
declare in your annual tax return (a) any foreign assets held by you or (b) any foreign bank accounts for which you have signing authority.       Ireland        Director Notification Obligation.  If you are a director, shadow director,
or secretary of an Irish subsidiary, you are subject to certain notification requirements under the Companies Act, 1990. Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Irish subsidiary in writing within five business days of receiving or
disposing of an interest ( e.g ., MSUs, Common Stock) in the Company and the number and class of shares of Common Stock or rights to which the interest relates, or within five business days of becoming aware of the event giving rise to the
notification requirement or within five days of becoming a director or secretary if such an interest exists at the time. This disclosure requirement also applies to any rights or shares of Common Stock acquired by your spouse or child(ren) (under
the age of 18).       Israel        Settlement of MSUs and Sale of Common Stock . Due to local regulatory requirements, upon the vesting of the MSUs, you agree to the immediate sale of any shares of Common Stock to be issued to you
upon vesting and settlement of the MSUs. You further agree that the Company is authorized to instruct its designated broker to assist with the mandatory sale of such shares of Common Stock (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization) and you
expressly authorize the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of such shares of Common Stock. You acknowledge that the Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the shares of Common Stock at
any particular price. Upon the sale of the shares of Common Stock, the Company agrees to pay you the cash proceeds from the sale of the Common Stock, less any brokerage fees or commissions and subject to any obligation to satisfy Tax Related Items.
      Italy    
   Data Privacy Notice.  This section replaces Section 16 of the Agreement:      You understand that the Company and the Employer are the privacy representatives of the Company in Italy and may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home
address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of Common Stock or directorships held in the Company or any subsidiaries, details of all MSUs or any other
entitlement to Common Stock awarded, canceled, vested,   
         21   

unvested or outstanding in your favor, and that the Company and the Employer will process said data and other data lawfully received from third parties ( Personal Data ) for the
exclusive purpose of managing and administering the Plan and complying with applicable laws, regulations and Community legislation. You also understand that providing the Company with Personal Data is mandatory for compliance with laws and is
necessary for the performance of the Plan and that your denial to provide Personal Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. You understand that
Personal Data will not be publicized, but it may be accessible by the Employer as the privacy representative of the Company and within the Employer s organization by its internal and external personnel in charge of processing, and by Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney or any other data processor appointed by the Company. The updated list of processors and of the subjects to which Data are communicated will remain available upon request from the Employer. Furthermore, Personal Data may be
transferred to banks, other financial institutions or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan. You understand that Personal Data may also be transferred to the independent registered public accounting firm engaged by the
Company, and also to the legitimate addressees under applicable laws. You further understand that the Company and its subsidiaries will transfer Personal Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and
management of your participation in the Plan, and that the Company and its subsidiaries may each further transfer Personal Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any
requisite transfer of Personal Data to Morgan Stanley Smith Barney or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan or any proceeds from the sale of such Common Stock. Such recipients may
receive, possess, use, retain and transfer Personal Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that these recipients may be acting as controllers,
processors or persons in charge of processing, as the case may be, according to applicable privacy laws, and that they may be located in or outside the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere, in countries that do not
provide an adequate level of data protection as intended under Italian privacy law.      Should the Company exercise its discretion in suspending
all necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan, it will delete Personal Data as soon as it has accomplished all the necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the
Plan.      You understand that Personal Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated
conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Personal Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree
no. 196/2003.      The processing activity, including communication, the transfer of Personal Data abroad, including outside of the European
Economic Area, as specified herein and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require your consent thereto as the processing is necessary to performance of law and contractual obligations related to implementation, administration and
management of the Plan. You understand that, pursuant to section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, you have the right at any moment to, including, but not limited to, obtain confirmation that Personal Data exists or not, access, verify its
contents, origin and accuracy, delete, update, integrate, correct, block or stop, for legitimate reason, the Personal Data processing. To exercise privacy rights, you should contact the Employer. Furthermore, you are aware that Personal Data will
not be used for direct marketing purposes. In addition, Personal Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting your human resources department.       Plan Document Acknowledgment.  By accepting the MSUs, you acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan, reviewed the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum in their entirety and fully
understand and accept all provisions of the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum.      In addition, you further acknowledge that you have read
and specifically and expressly approve without limitation the following clauses in the Agreement: Section 4 (Responsibility for Taxes); Section 7 (Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and MSUs); Section 8 (No Advice Regarding Grant);
Section 9   
         22   

(Right to Continued Employment); Section 11 (Deemed Acceptance); Section 13 (Severability and Validity); Section 14 (Governing Law, Jurisdiction and Venue); Section 16 (Data
Privacy, as replaced by the above provision in this Addendum); Section 17 (Electronic Delivery and Acceptance); Section 18 (Language); Section 19 (Compliance with Laws and Regulations); Section 20 (Entire Agreement and No Oral
Modification or Waiver); Section 21 (Addendum); and Section 22 (Imposition of Other Requirements).       Additional Tax/Exchange
Control Information.  You are required to report in your annual tax return: (a) any transfers of cash or Common Stock to or from Italy exceeding  10,000 or the equivalent amount in U.S. dollars; (b) any foreign investments or
investments (including proceeds from the sale of Common Stock acquired under the Plan) held outside of Italy exceeding  10,000 or the equivalent amount in U.S. dollars, if the investment may give rise to taxable income in Italy and (c) the
amount of the transfers to and from abroad which have had an impact during the calendar year on your foreign investments or investments held outside of Italy. Under certain circumstances, you may be exempt from requirement under (a) above if
the transfer or investment is made through an authorized broker resident in Italy.      Starting from 2011, a tax on the value of financial assets
held outside of Italy by Italian residents has been introduced. The tax will apply at an annual rate of 0.15% beginning in 2013. The taxable amount will be the fair market value of the financial assets, assessed at the end of the calendar year. For
the purposes of the market value assessment, the documentation issued by the Plan broker may be used.       Japan    
   Offshore Assets Reporting Information.  You will be required to report details of any assets (including any shares of Common Stock acquired under
the Plan) held outside of Japan as of December 31st of each year, to the extent such assets have a total net fair market value exceeding  50,000,000. Such report will be due by March 15th of the following year. You should consult with
your personal tax advisor as to whether the reporting obligation applies to you and whether you will be required to report details of any outstanding MSUs or shares of Common Stock held by you in the report.   
   Korea        Exchange
Control Information.  Korean residents who realize US$500,000 or more from the sale of shares of Common Stock or receipt of dividends in a single transaction are required to repatriate the proceeds to Korea within 18 months of receipt.
      Kuwait    
  There are no country-specific provisions.       Luxembourg        Exchange Control Information.  You are required to report any inward
remittances of funds to the  Banque Central de Luxembourg  and/or the  Service Central de La Statistique et des  tudes  conomiques  within 15 working days following the month during which the transaction occurred. If a
Luxembourg financial institution is involved in the transaction, it generally will fulfill the reporting obligation on your behalf.       Mexico        Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgment.  By accepting this Award, you expressly
recognize that the Company, with offices at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154, U.S.A., is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and that your participation in the Plan and acquisition of shares does not constitute an
employment relationship between you and the Company since you are participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and your sole employer is Bristol-Myers Squibb Company in Mexico ( BMS-Mexico ), not the Company in the United States.
Based on the foregoing, you expressly recognize that the Plan and the benefits that you may derive from participation in the Plan do not establish any   
         23   

rights between you and your employer, BMS-Mexico, and do not form part of the employment conditions and/or benefits provided by BMS-Mexico and any modification of the Plan or its termination
shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of your employment.      You further understand that your participation in
the Plan is as a result of a unilateral and discretionary decision of the Company; therefore, the Company reserves the absolute right to amend and/or discontinue your participation at any time without any liability to you.   
  Finally, you hereby declare that you do not reserve to yourself any action or right to bring any claim against the Company for any compensation or
damages regarding any provision of the Plan or the benefits derived under the Plan, and you therefore grant a full and broad release to the Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates, branches, representation offices, its shareholders, officers, agents
or legal representatives with respect to any claim that may arise.          Pol tica Laboral y
Reconocimiento/Aceptaci n.    Aceptando este Premio1, el participante reconoce que la Compa  a, with offices at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154, U.S.A., es el  nico responsable de la
administraci n del Plan y que la participaci n del Participante en el mismo y la adquisicion de acciones no constituye de ninguna manera una relaci n laboral entre el Participante y la Compa  a, toda vez que la
participaci n del participante en el Plan deriva  nicamente de una relaci n comercial con la Compa  a, reconociendo expresamente que el  nico empleador del participante lo es Bristol-Myers Squibb Company en
Mexico ( BMS-Mexico ), no es la Compa  a en los Estados Unidos. Derivado de lo anterior, el participante expresamente reconoce que el Plan y los beneficios que pudieran derivar del mismo no establecen ning n derecho
entre el participante y su empleador, BMS-M xico, y no forman parte de las condiciones laborales y/o prestaciones otorgadas por BMS-M xico, y expresamente el participante reconoce que cualquier modificaci n el Plan o la
terminaci n del mismo de manera alguna podr  ser interpretada como una modificaci n de los condiciones de trabajo del participante.        Asimismo, el participante entiende que su participaci n en el Plan es resultado de la decisi n unilateral y discrecional de la Compa  a, por lo tanto, la
Compa  a. Se reserva el derecho absoluto para modificar y/o terminar la participaci n del participante en cualquier momento, sin ninguna responsabilidad para el participante.    
   Finalmente, el participante manifiesta que no se reserva ninguna acci n o derecho que origine una demanda en contra de la
Compa  a, por cualquier compensaci n o da o en relaci n con cualquier disposici n del Plan o de los beneficios derivados del mismo, y en consecuencia el participante otorga un amplio y total finiquito a la
Compa  a, sus entidades relacionadas, afiliadas, sucursales, oficinas de representaci n, sus accionistas, directores, agentes y representantes legales con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera surgir.    
   Netherlands    
   Insider-Trading Notification.  You should be aware of the Dutch insider-trading rules, which may impact the sale of shares of Common Stock issued
to you at settlement of the MSUs. In particular, you may be prohibited from effectuating certain transactions involving Common Stock if you have inside information about the Company.      Under Article 5:56 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, anyone who has  inside information  related to an issuing company is prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in or
from the Netherlands.  Inside information  is defined as knowledge of specific information concerning the issuing company to which the securities relate or the trade in securities issued by such company, which has not been made public and
which, if published, would reasonably be expected to affect the share price, regardless of the development of the price. The insider could be any employee of a subsidiary in the Netherlands who has inside information as described herein.   

1  
   El t rmino  Premio  se refiere a la palabra  Award.       
         24   

Given the broad scope of the definition of inside information, certain employees working at a subsidiary in
the Netherlands may have inside information and, thus, would be prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in the Netherlands at a time when they have such inside information.      By accepting the MSUs and the underlying shares of Common Stock, you acknowledge having read and understood the notification above and acknowledge that it is your responsibility to comply with the Dutch
insider trading rules, as discussed herein.      If you are uncertain whether the insider-trading rules apply to you, you should consult your
personal legal advisor.       Norway       There are no country-specific provisions.       Peru    
   Securities Law Information.  The grant of MSUs is considered a private offering in Peru; therefore, it is not subject to registration.   
   Poland        Exchange
Control Information.  Polish residents holding foreign securities (including shares of Common Stock) and maintaining accounts abroad must report information to the National Bank of Poland. Specifically, if the aggregate value of shares and cash
held in such foreign accounts exceeds PLN 7 million, Polish residents must file reports on the transactions and balances of the accounts on a quarterly basis on special forms that are available on the website of the National Bank of Poland. In
addition, Polish residents are required to transfer funds ( i.e ., in connection with the sale of shares of Common Stock) through a bank account in Poland if the transferred amount in any single transaction exceeds a specified threshold
(currently  15,000). If you are a Polish resident, you must also store all documents connected with any foreign exchange transactions you engage in for a period of five years, as measured from the end of the year in which such transaction
occurred. You should consult with your personal legal advisor to determine what you must do to fulfill any applicable reporting duties.       Portugal        Language Consent.  You hereby expressly declare that you have full
knowledge of the English language and have read, understood and fully accepted and agreed with the terms and conditions established in the Plan and the Agreement.       Conhecimento da Lingua. Voc  expressamente declara ter pleno conhecimento do idioma ingl s e ter lido, entendido e totalmente aceito e concordou com os termos e condi  es
estabelecidas no plano e no acordo.        Exchange Control Information.  If you acquire shares of Common Stock under the Plan and do not
hold the shares with a Portuguese financial intermediary, you may need to file a report with the Portuguese Central Bank. If the shares are held by a Portuguese financial intermediary, it will file the report for you.     
   Puerto Rico       There are
no country-specific provisions.       Romania        Exchange Control Information.  If you deposit the proceeds from the sale of your shares of Common Stock in a bank account in Romania, you may have to provide the Romanian bank through which the
operations are effected with appropriate documentation regarding the receipt of the income. You should consult with a personal legal advisor to determine whether you will be required to submit such documentation to the Romanian bank.   
         25   

Russia        Exchange Control Information.  You acknowledge that you must repatriate the proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock and any dividends/Dividend Equivalents received in relation to the MSUs
within a reasonably short time of receipt. Such amounts must be initially credited to you through a foreign currency account opened in your name at an authorized bank in Russia. After the funds are initially received in Russia, they may be further
remitted to foreign banks subject to the following limitations: (i) the foreign account may be opened only for individuals; (ii) the foreign account may not be used for business activities; and (iii) you must give notice to the
Russian tax authorities about the opening/closing of each foreign account within one month of the account opening/closing.       Securities Law
Information.  These materials do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia nor do they constitute placement of the shares of Common Stock in Russia. The issuance of Common Stock pursuant to the MSUs described herein has
not and will not be registered in Russia and hence, the shares of Common Stock described herein may not be admitted or used for offering, placement or public circulation in Russia.       U.S. Transaction.  Any shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the MSUs shall be delivered to you through a brokerage account in the U.S. You may hold shares of Common Stock in your brokerage
account in the U.S.; however, in no event will shares issued to you and/or share certificates or other instruments be delivered to you in Russia. You are not permitted to make any public advertising or announcements regarding the MSUs or Common
Stock in Russia, or promote these shares to other Russian legal entities or individuals, and you are not permitted to sell or otherwise dispose of Common Stock directly to other Russian legal entities or individuals. You are permitted to sell shares
of Common Stock only on the New York Stock Exchange and only through a U.S. broker.       Data Privacy Consent.  This section replaces
Section 16 of the Agreement:      You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other
form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, your Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.   
  You understand that the Company, any subsidiary and/or your Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your
name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all MSUs or any other entitlement to
shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ( Data ).      You understand that Data may be transferred to Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which assists in the implementation,
administration and management of the Plan. You understand that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and
protections than your country. You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the International Compensation and Benefits Group.
You authorize the Company, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney and other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the
Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with
whom the shares of Common Stock received upon vesting of the MSUs may be deposited. You understand that Data will be held only as long   
         26   

as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request
additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case and without cost, by contacting in writing the International Compensation and Benefits
Group. Further, you understand that you are providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis. If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be
adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you MSUs or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, you understand that refusing or
withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact the International Compensation and
Benefits Group.       Labor Law Information.  You acknowledge that if you continue to hold shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan
after an involuntary termination of your employment, you will not be eligible to receive unemployment benefits in Russia.   
   Saudi Arabia    
   Securities Law Information.  This document may not be distributed in the Kingdom except to such persons as are permitted under the Offers of
Securities Regulations issued by the Capital Market Authority.      The Capital Market Authority does not make any representation as to the
accuracy or completeness of this document, and expressly disclaims any liability whatsoever for any loss arising from, or incurred in reliance upon, any part of this document. Prospective purchasers of the securities offered hereby should conduct
their own due diligence on the accuracy of the information relating to the securities. If you do not understand the contents of this document you should consult an authorized financial advisor.   
   Singapore        Securities
Law Information   .   The grant of MSUs is being made in reliance of section 273(1)(f) of the Securities and Futures Act (Chap. 289) ( SFA ) for which it is exempt from the prospectus and registration requirements under the
SFA. The Plan has not been lodged or registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore. You should note that the MSUs are subject to section 257 of the SFA and you will not be able to make (i) any subsequent sale of the shares
of Common Stock in Singapore or (ii) any offer of such subsequent sale of the shares of Common Stock subject to the MSUs in Singapore, unless such sale or offer is made pursuant to the exemptions under Part XIII Division (1) Subdivision
(4) (other than section 280) of the SFA (Chapter 289, 2006 Ed.).       Director Notification Requirement.  If you are a director,
associate director or shadow director of a Singapore company, you are subject to certain notification requirements under the Singapore Companies Act. Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Singapore company in writing when you
receive an interest ( e.g. , MSUs, Common Stock) in the Company or any related companies. In addition, you must notify the Singapore company when you sell shares of the Company or any related company (including when you sell shares of
Common Stock acquired pursuant to your MSUs). These notifications must be made within two business days of acquiring or disposing of any interest in the Company or any related company. In addition, a notification must be made of your interests in
the Company or any related company within two business days of becoming a director.       Insider Trading Notification.  You should be aware
of the Singapore insider trading rules, which may impact the acquisition or disposal of shares or rights to shares of Common Stock under the Plan. Under the Singapore insider trading rules, you are prohibited from acquiring or selling shares of
Common Stock or rights to shares of Common Stock ( e.g ., MSUs under the Plan) when you are in possession of information which is not generally available and which you know or should know will have a material effect on the price of Common Stock
once such information is generally available.   
         27   

South Africa        Exchange Control Information.  You are solely responsible for complying with applicable South African exchange control regulations. Because the exchange control regulations change frequently and
without notice, you should consult your legal advisor prior to the acquisition or sale of shares of Common Stock under the Plan to ensure compliance with current regulations. As noted, it is your responsibility to comply with South African exchange
control laws, and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from failure to comply with applicable laws.       Spain        Exchange Control Information.  To participate in the Plan, you must comply
with exchange control regulations in Spain. When receiving foreign currency payments exceeding  50,000 derived from the ownership of shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the MSUs ( i.e. , dividends, Dividend Equivalents or sale
proceeds), you must inform the financial institution receiving the payment of the basis upon which such payment is made. You will need to provide the institution with the following information: (i) your name, address, and fiscal identification
number; (ii) the name and corporate domicile of the Company; (iii) the amount of the payment and the currency used; (iv) the country of origin; (v) the reasons for the payment; and (vi) further information that may be
required.      If you acquire shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the MSUs and wish to import the ownership title of such shares
( i.e ., share certificates) into Spain, you must declare the importation of such securities to the Spanish  Direccion General de Pol tica Comercial y de Inversiones Extranjeras  (the  DGPCIE ). Generally, the declaration
must be made in January for shares of Common Stock acquired or sold during (or owned as of December 31 of) the prior year; however, if the value of shares acquired or sold exceeds  1,502,530 (or you hold 10% or more of the share capital of
the Company or such other amount that would entitle you to join the Company s board of directors), the declaration must be filed within one month of the acquisition or sale, as applicable. In addition, you also must file a declaration of
ownership of foreign securities with the Directorate of Foreign Transactions each January.      Further, effective January 1, 2013, to the
extent that you hold assets (e.g., cash or shares of Common Stock held in a bank or brokerage account) or rights (e.g., the MSUs) outside of Spain with a value in excess of  20,000 (on a per-asset basis) as of December 31 each year, you
will be required to report information on such rights and assets on your tax return for such year.       Labor Law Acknowledgment.  This
provision supplements Sections 2(h) and 7 of the Agreement:        By accepting the MSUs, you consent to participation in the Plan and
acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan document.      You understand and agree that, as a condition of the grant of the MSUs,
except as provided for in Section 2 of the Agreement, your termination of employment for any reason (including for the reasons listed below) will automatically result in the forfeiture of any MSUs that have not vested on the date of your
termination.      In particular, you understand and agree that, unless otherwise provided in the Agreement, the MSUs will be forfeited without
entitlement to the underlying shares of Common Stock or to any amount as indemnification in the event of a termination of your employment prior to vesting by reason of, including, but not limited to: resignation, disciplinary dismissal adjudged to
be with cause, disciplinary dismissal adjudged or recognized to be without cause, individual or collective layoff on objective grounds, whether adjudged to be with cause or adjudged or recognized to be without cause, material modification of the
terms of employment under Article 41 of the Workers  Statute, relocation under Article 40 of the Workers  Statute, Article 50 of the Workers  Statute, unilateral withdrawal by the Employer, and under Article 10.3 of Royal Decree
1382/1985.   
         28   

Furthermore, you understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and discretionally decided to
grant MSUs under the Plan to individuals who may be employees of the Company or a subsidiary. The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or otherwise bind
the Company or any subsidiary on an ongoing basis, other than as expressly set forth in the Agreement. Consequently, you understand that the MSUs are granted on the assumption and condition that the MSUs and the shares of Common Stock underlying the
MSUs shall not become a part of any employment or service contract (either with the Company, the Employer or any subsidiary) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other
right whatsoever. In addition, you understand that the MSUs would not be granted to you but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, you acknowledge and freely accept that, should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or
should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then any Award of MSUs shall be null and void.       Securities Law Information.  The
MSUs and the Common Stock described in the Agreement and this Addendum do not qualify under Spanish regulations as securities. No  offer of securities to the public,  as defined under Spanish law, has taken place or will take place in the
Spanish territory. The Agreement (including this Addendum) has not been nor will it be registered with the  Comisi n Nacional del Mercado de Valores , and does not constitute a public offering prospectus.   
   Sweden       There are no
country-specific provisions.       Switzerland        Securities Law Information.  The MSUs offered are considered a private offering in Switzerland; therefore, they are not subject to registration in Switzerland.   
   Taiwan        Exchange
Control Information.  You may remit foreign currency (including proceeds from the sale of Common Stock) into or out of Taiwan up to US$5,000,000 per year without special permission. If the transaction amount is TWD500,000 or more in a single
transaction, you must submit a Foreign Exchange Transaction Form to the remitting bank and provide supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank.       Thailand        Exchange Control Information.  If the proceeds from the sale of shares of
Common Stock or the receipt of dividends are equal to or greater than US$50,000 or more in a single transaction, you must repatriate the proceeds to Thailand immediately upon receipt and convert the funds to Thai Baht or deposit the proceeds in a
foreign currency deposit account maintained by a bank in Thailand within 360 days of remitting the proceeds to Thailand. In addition you must report the inward remittance to the Bank of Thailand on a foreign exchange transaction form. If you fail to
comply with these obligations, you may be subject to penalties assessed by the Bank of Thailand. Because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your personal advisor before selling shares of Common
Stock to ensure compliance with current regulations. You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Thailand, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from
your failure to comply with applicable laws.       Tunisia        Securities Law Information.  All proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock must be repatriated to Tunisia. You should consult your personal advisor before taking action with respect to
remittance of proceeds into Tunisia. You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Tunisia. In addition, if you hold assets abroad in excess of a certain amount, you must report the assets to the Central Bank of
Tunisia.   
         29   

Turkey        Securities Law Information.  Under Turkish law, you are not permitted to sell shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan in Turkey. The shares of Common Stock are currently traded on the New
York Stock Exchange, which is located outside of Turkey, under the ticker symbol  BMY  and the shares of Common Stock may be sold through this exchange.       United Arab Emirates        Securities Law Information.  The Plan is only being offered to
qualified employees and is in the nature of providing equity incentives to employees of the Company or its subsidiary or affiliate in the UAE. Any documents related to the Plan, including the Plan, Plan prospectus and other grant documents
( Plan Documents ), are intended for distribution only to such employees and must not be delivered to, or relied on by, any other person. Prospective purchasers of the securities offered should conduct their own due diligence on the
securities. If you do not understand the contents of the Plan Documents, you should consult an authorized financial adviser.      The Emirates
Securities and Commodities Authority has no responsibility for reviewing or verifying any Plan Documents nor taken steps to verify the information set out in them, and thus, are not responsible for such documents.   
   United Kingdom    
   Responsibility for Taxes.  This provision supplements Section 4 of the Agreement:      You agree that, if you do not pay or the Employer or the Company does not withhold from you the full amount of Tax-Related Items that you owe at vesting and settlement of the MSUs, or the release or
assignment of the MSUs for consideration, or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the MSUs (the  Taxable Event ) within 90 days after the Taxable Event, or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K.
Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, then the amount of income tax that should have been withheld shall constitute a loan owed by you to the Employer, effective 90 days after the Taxable Event. You agree that the loan will bear interest at
Her Majesty s Revenue   Customs  ( HMRC ) official rate and will be immediately due and repayable by you, and the Company and/or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by withholding the funds from salary,
bonus or any other funds due to you by the Employer, by withholding in shares of Common Stock issued upon vesting of your MSUs or from the cash proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock or by demanding cash or a cheque from you. You also
authorize the Company to delay the issuance of any shares of Common Stock unless and until the loan is repaid in full.      Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if you are an officer or executive director (as within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), the terms of the immediately foregoing provision will not apply. In the event that you are
an officer or executive director and the income tax that is due is not collected from or paid by you within 90 days of the Taxable Event, the amount of any uncollected income tax may constitute a benefit to you on which additional income tax and
national insurance contributions may be payable. You will be responsible for reporting and paying any income tax due on this additional benefit directly to the HMRC under the self-assessment regime and for reimbursing the Company or the Employer (as
appropriate) for the value of any employee national insurance contributions due on this additional benefit.       Venezuela
       Securities Law Information.  The MSUs granted under the Plan and the shares of Common Stock issued under the Plan are offered as a
personal, private, exclusive transaction and are not subject to Venezuelan securities regulations.   
         30   

Exchange Control Information.  Exchange control restrictions may limit the ability to remit funds out
of Venezuela in order to receive shares of Common Stock upon vesting of the MSUs, or remit funds into Venezuela following the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired upon vesting of the MSUs. The Company reserves the right to restrict settlement of
the MSUs or to amend or cancel the MSUs at any time in order to comply with applicable exchange control laws in Venezuela. Any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan are intended to be an investment rather than for the resale and conversion
of the shares into foreign currency. You are responsible for complying with exchange control laws in Venezuela and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable
laws. Because exchange control laws and regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult with you personal legal advisor before accepting the MSUs and before selling any shares of Common Stock acquired upon vesting of the MSUs to
ensure compliance with current regulations.   
         31   

</EX-10.RR>

<EX-10.WW>
 19
 d450621dex10ww.htm
 EX-10.WW

EX-10.ww 

Exhibit 10ww       BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY      BENEFIT EQUALIZATION PLAN RETIREMENT INCOME
PLAN       (as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2012)    

TABLE OF CONTENTS    

-i-

TABLE OF CONTENTS    
  (continued)       

Page   

X.  
      
  SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE SPIN-OFF OF U.S. MEAD JOHNSON TRANSFERRED EMPLOYEES  

25  

A.  
      
  Introduction  

25  

B.  
      
  Effective Date  

26  

C.  
      
  Applicability  

26  

D.  
      
  Plan Spin-off  

26  

E.  
      
  Eligibility to Participate in the Plan  

26  

F.  
      
  Credited Service  

27  

G.  
      
  Final Average Compensation  

27  

H.  
      
  No Benefit Payable Hereunder  

27  

I.  
      
  Rehires  

27  

J.  
      
  No Separation from Service  

28  

-ii-

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY   
  BENEFIT EQUALIZATION PLAN RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN       (as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2012)        I. DEFINITIONS.
      Unless the context or subject matter otherwise requires, the definitions set forth in this Section I shall govern in this
Plan (as herein defined). Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, to the extent capitalized terms in this Plan conflict with such terms in either of the Retirement Plans (as herein defined), the terms of the Retirement Plans shall control.
       Beneficiary   shall mean the person entitled to receive payments under the Plan in the event of the
Participant s death, determined in accordance with Section VI.H.        BEP Benefit(s)  or
 Benefit(s)   shall mean the benefit described in Section IV.A. of this Plan.        BEP Savings
Plan   shall mean the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Benefit Equalization Plan Savings and Investment Program, as amended from time to time. For periods on and after April 1, 2011, references to BEP Savings Plan with respect to
any Participant who is a participant in the Puerto Rico Plan shall mean the Bristol-Myers Squibb Puerto Rico, Inc. Benefit Equalization Plan Savings and Investment Program.   
    BEP Election Rules   shall mean the rules set forth in Section VI.E.5(b) of the Plan.   
    BMS Pharma Plan   shall mean the Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Company Pension and Retirement Plan, as amended from time
to time.        BMS Pharma Puerto Rico Plan   shall mean the Bristol-Myers Squibb Holdings Pharma, Ltd. Pension and
Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time.        Claims Appeal Guidelines   shall mean the Administrative
Procedures for Defined Benefit Plan Claims and Appeals, attached hereto as Exhibit A, and as amended from time to time.   
    Code   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. References to provisions of the Code shall, in
connection with the Puerto Rico Plan, include their applicable counterparts in the Puerto Rico Code and the regulations thereunder.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          1   

Company   shall mean Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and any successor or
successors thereof.        Compensation Committee   shall mean the Compensation and Management Development
Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company.        Credited Service   shall have the meaning set forth for
such term in the Retirement Income Plan or the Puerto Rico Plan, as applicable. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, the Plan shall not recognize as Credited Service any period of service a Participant provides after December 31,
2009.        Early Retirement Date   shall have the meaning set forth for such term in the Retirement Income Plan
or the Puerto Rico Plan, as applicable.        ERISA   shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, as amended.        Final Average Compensation   shall have the meaning set forth for such term in the
Retirement Income Plan or the Puerto Rico Plan, as applicable. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, a Participant s Final Average Compensation shall be determined as of the earlier of (1) the date of the Participant s
Separation From Service, or (2) December 31, 2014 and no amounts paid to or received by a Participant after December 31, 2014 shall be taken into account for any purpose.   
    Normal Retirement Date   shall mean the first day of the month coinciding with or next following the Participant s
65th birthday.        Participant   shall mean each participant in this Plan, as determined in accordance with
Section III. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, no individual who is not a Participant as of December 31, 2014 shall be eligible to become or shall become a Participant in this Plan.   
    Participating Employer   shall mean any corporation participating in either of the Retirement Plans.   
    Pension Committee   shall mean the committee appointed by the Compensation Committee to administer this Plan. The
Pension Committee shall serve as Plan Administrator of the Plan.        Performance Incentive Plan   shall mean the
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Performance Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time, and any successor annual incentive plan covering employees graded at E level (or a successor designation to E level) or higher.   
    Pharma Non-Qualified Plans   shall mean collectively the Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Company Pension Restoration Plan,
the Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Company Retirement Restoration Plan and the Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Company Supplemental Retirement Income Plan.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          2   

Plan   shall mean the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Benefit Equalization
Plan Retirement Income Plan, as amended and restated herein, and as amended from time to time.        Puerto Rico
Code   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code for a New Puerto Rico, as may be amended from time to time and any applicable regulation thereunder and any successor thereto.     
    Puerto Rico Plan   shall mean the Bristol-Myers Squibb Puerto Rico, Inc. Retirement Income Plan, and as amended from
time to time.        Regular Full-Time Employee   shall have the meaning set forth for such term in the Retirement
Income Plan or the Puerto Rico Plan, as applicable, and as amended from time to time.        Retirement Income
Plan   shall mean the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Retirement Income Plan, and as amended from time to time.   
    Retirement Plans   shall mean collectively the Retirement Income Plan and the Puerto Rico Plan.   
    Rule of 70 Eligible   shall mean that the Participant satisfies each and every one of the following requirements:
     (1) The Participant had an involuntary Separation From Service from the Company or an affiliate with respect to which the
Participant is eligible for benefits under a Company-sponsored severance plan or agreement.      (2) As of the Participant s
Separation From Service, the Participant had completed at least ten Years of Service.      (3) As of the Participant s
Separation From Service, the Participant has combined whole and partial years of age and years of employment (measured from the Participant s date of hire to Separation From Service), the sum of which, rounded up to the next higher whole
number, equals at least 70.      (4) As of the Participant s Separation From Service, the Participant is not eligible to
retire under an applicable Retirement Plan.      (5) The Participant executed a timely general release of claims against the
Company in a form provided by the Company (which may be in the form of a letter agreement or otherwise) and did not revoke it (directly or indirectly) prior to the expiration of the period for revocation. For avoidance of uncertainty, failure for
any   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          3   

reason to provide an executed general release in the form provided by the Company within the time period for doing so shall be deemed a refusal to do so (such requirements being the  Release
Requirements ).        Savings and Investment Program   shall mean the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Savings
and Investment Program, and as amended from time to time.        Separation From Service   shall mean a
Participant s voluntary or involuntary severance of employment with the Company and Participating Employers, except by reason of temporary absence,  provided   that , except for purposes of Section III.B., Separation From Service
shall not include death or transfer to an affiliate or subsidiary of the Company that is not a Participating Employer; and further  provided , that for purposes of Sections VI.D, VI.E, VI.F, and VI.G, a Separation From Service shall not occur
until the date that a Participant experiences a  separation from service  from the Company (and all of the members of the controlled group of the Company within the meaning of Code section 414(b) and (c)), within the meaning of Code
section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) and (1) IRS Notice 2005-1 and proposed Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(h), for periods after December 31, 2004 but prior to April 17, 2007; or (2) final Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(h), for
periods after April 17, 2007.        Specified Employee   shall mean a  specified employee  as
determined by the Pension Committee or its designee in accordance with Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i).        Squibb
Plan   shall mean the Squibb Corporation Supplementary Pension Plan.        Year(s) of Service   shall have
the meaning set forth for such term in the applicable Retirement Plan.       II. PURPOSE AND HISTORY OF THE PLAN.    
  The purpose of this Plan is to provide benefits for certain employees participating in the Retirement Income Plan or the Puerto Rico Plan
whose benefits under the Retirement Plans are or will be limited by application of sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code or who participate in the Performance Incentive Plan. The Plan is intended to be an unfunded  excess benefit plan 
as that term is defined in Section 3(36) of ERISA to the extent that it provides benefits in excess of the limitations on benefits imposed by section 415 of the Code with respect to a Participant under the applicable Retirement Plan, and a
 top hat  plan meeting the requirements of Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), 401(a)(1) and 4021(b)(6) of ERISA to the extent that it provides benefits based on compensation in excess of the limitation imposed by section 401(a)(17) of the Code on
annual compensation of a Participant that may be taken into account under the applicable Retirement Plan or benefits to employees who are Participants based on participation in the Performance Incentive Plan, and with respect to certain employees
covered by the Squibb Plan on December 31, 1998. The Plan was adopted effective as of   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          4   

January 1, 1983, and has been restated from time to time, including in 1993 and in 2007, and has been further amended from time to time. The Plan is again amended and restated in the
following form effective as of January 1, 2012, except as otherwise specified herein.      Effective as of January 1,
1991, the Plan assumed the liabilities for all benefits payable under the Squibb Plan with respect to all active and former employees (other than foreign employees) who had accrued, as of December 31, 1990, benefits provided under the Squibb
Plan other than benefits due to a Squibb employee s election to defer an annual incentive award or benefits payable to foreign employees of Squibb. Effective as of January 1, 1996, the Plan assumed the liabilities for benefits accrued as
of December 31, 1995, under the Squibb Plan with respect to all active and former Squibb employees (other than foreign employees) attributable to pre-January 1, 1991 deferrals of annual incentive awards. Therefore, this Plan is a
continuation and successor plan to the Squibb Plan with respect to all such benefits accrued thereunder prior to January 1, 1991 with respect to employees who participated in the Squibb Corporation Pension Plan. Employees who were Participants
in the Squibb Plan who accrue benefits under this Plan on or after January 1, 1991, shall be entitled to the benefits provided by this Plan with respect to all service covered under either the Retirement Income Plan or the Puerto Rico Plan.
     Effective as of October 1, 2002 the BMS Pharma Plan was merged into the Retirement Income Plan and the BMS Pharma Puerto
Rico Plan was merged into the Puerto Rico Plan, and this Plan assumed the liabilities for all benefits payable under the Pharma Non-Qualified Plans. Therefore, this Plan is a continuation and successor plan to the Pharma Non-Qualified Plans with
respect to all such benefits accrued thereunder prior to October 1, 2002 with respect to employees who participated in the BMS Pharma Plan and the BMS Pharma Puerto Rico Plan prior to the merger of these plans into the Retirement Income Plan
and the Puerto Rico Plan, respectively. Employees who were Participants in the Pharma Non-Qualified Plans who accrue benefits under this Plan on or after October 1, 2002, shall be entitled to the benefits provided by this Plan with respect to
all service covered under either the Retirement Plan or the Puerto Rico Plan.      By action on June 10, 2009, the
Compensation Committee determined to amend the Plan so as to freeze the Plan as of January 1, 2010 except that the Plan will continue to recognize compensation earned through December 31, 2014 for purposes of calculating a
Participant s Final Average Compensation. As such, service after 2009 shall not be recognized or taken into account as Credited Service, and a Participant s Final Average Compensation shall be determined as of the earlier of his Separation
From Service or December 31, 2014. In addition, no Regular Full-Time Employee will be able to join the Plan after December 31, 2014.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          5   

III. ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN.    
   A.  Eligible Participants  . Each person who is a Participant in the Plan as of December 31, 2011, shall continue to be a
Participant in the Plan as of January 1, 2012. Each other Regular Full-Time Employee who is a member of a Retirement Plan as of December 31, 2009 ,  and who is employed by a Participating Employer shall be eligible to participate in
this Plan and shall become a Participant in this Plan when (1) his benefit under the applicable Retirement Plan would exceed the limitations on benefits imposed by section 415 of the Code calculated from and after September 2, 1974,
(2) any portion of his  annual rate of compensation  as defined in the Retirement Plan or the Puerto Rico Plan, as applicable, would be excluded from his Final Average Compensation determined under the Retirement Plan by reason of the
application of section 401(a)(17) of the Code and/or (3) he participates in the Performance Incentive Plan; provided, however, that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, effective January 1, 2015, no Regular Full-Time Employee
who is a member of the Retirement Plan and who is not a Participant in the Plan shall become a Participant in the Plan.       B.
 Cessation of Participation  . Participation in the Plan shall terminate upon the Participant s Separation From Service, except, however, that an individual who is entitled to receive Benefits under the Plan after his or her Separation
From Service will continue to be treated as a Participant (other than for BEP Benefit accrual purposes) until his or her full BEP Benefits have been paid or forfeited.       IV. CALCULATION OF BENEFITS.        A.  Amount of BEP Benefit  . The
BEP Benefit payable under the Plan, expressed as a monthly benefit paid in the form of a single life annuity commencing at the Normal Retirement Date or the Participant s Separation from Service, if later, shall be an amount equal to the
excess, if any, of (1) over (2), where:      1. equals the monthly benefit, expressed as a single life annuity commencing at
the Participant s Normal Retirement Date or Separation from Service, if later, that would have been payable to, or with respect to, such Participant under the applicable Retirement Plan, determined as follows:   
  (a) For calendar years prior to 2015, without regard to the limitations imposed by sections 415 and 401(a)(17) of the Code, and for
calendar years after 2014, without regard to the foregoing limitations as in effect for the 2014 plan year of the applicable Retirement Plan;      (b) For calendar years prior to 2015, by including in his  annual rate of compensation  for purposes of determining Final Average Compensation under such Retirement Plan, elective deferrals
under the Savings and Investment Program which, due to Code section 415 and/or 401(a)(17) limitations, were, in accordance with the Participant s election, credited to the BEP Savings Plan, but only through the earlier of (1) the date
of the Participant s Separation From Service, or (2) December 31, 2014 and not taking into account any amounts credited to the BEP   Savings Plan in or for calendar years after 2014, and   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          6   

(c) in the case of a Participant who also participates in the Performance Incentive Plan,
for years prior to 2015, by recalculating his  annual rate of compensation  for each year, for purposes of determining Final Average Compensation under such Retirement Plan, by substituting for the cash award paid under the Performance
Incentive Plan during such calendar year, the cash award earned by such Participant under the Performance Incentive Plan for such calendar year, if such amount is greater, without regard to the calendar year in which such payment is made;
 provided ,  however , that (1) for purposes of this paragraph (c), any performance incentive award for the calendar year in which the Participant s Separation From Service occurs shall be assumed to be fully earned as though all
performance goals and other conditions to full payment had been attained as of the date such Separation From Service occurs, and (2) not taking into account any amount awarded and/or paid under the Performance Incentive Plan for calendar years
after 2014; and      2. equals the monthly benefit, expressed as a single life annuity commencing at the Participant s Normal
Retirement Date or Separation from Service, if later, that would be payable to the Participant or his beneficiary under the applicable Retirement Plan.       B.  Service Limitations  . The amount paid to, or with respect to, a Participant who is grade levels E07 and above shall be determined without limiting his total Years of Service to 40 years.
      C.  Actuarial Assumptions  . The Benefits determined under this Section IV shall be calculated utilizing the same
actuarial assumptions used to compute the Participant s Retirement Plan benefit payments. Pursuant to the preceding sentence:      1.  Reduction for Early Commencement . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if the date as of which a Participant commences payment of his benefit under the applicable Retirement Plan
precedes the Participant s Normal Retirement Date, then the BEP Benefit determined under Section IV.A. shall be reduced applying the same terms and conditions applicable to commencement of Benefits prior to the Participant s Normal
Retirement Date under the applicable Retirement Plan;  provided ,  however , if a Participant s Separation From Service occurs after December 31, 2004 and prior to January 1, 2007 and such Participant became, during this
period of time, Rule of 70 Eligible, then the Benefits that accrued and vested prior to January 1, 2005 ( pre-409A Benefits ) will be subject to the reduction factors under the applicable Retirement Plan as if the Participant was not
eligible to retire under an applicable Retirement Plan or Rule of 70 Eligible.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          7   

2.  Forms of Distribution . For purposes of converting a Participant s BEP Benefit
described in Section IV.A. (as reduced pursuant to Section IV.C.1.) from a single life annuity to a lump sum distribution (or such other form of distribution in which the Participant s BEP Benefit is to be paid under the Plan), the same
actuarial assumptions that would be used for calculating a lump sum distribution (or such other applicable form of distribution) under the Retirement Plan shall be used.       V. VESTING.       A Participant shall become vested in his Benefits at the same
time and to the same extent as such Participant becomes vested in his benefit under the applicable Retirement Plan (or upon becoming a Participant in this Plan, if later).       VI. TIME AND FORM OF PAYMENT OF BENEFITS.        A.  Separation From Service
Prior to January 1, 1993  . In the case of a Participant whose Separation From Service occurs prior to January 1, 1993, the BEP Benefits shall be payable to the Participant at the same date and in the same form as his benefit under
the applicable Retirement Plan,  provided   that  if the Participant elects to receive his benefit under the applicable Retirement Plan in a lump sum, then the Participant shall elect to receive his BEP Benefit in one of the annuity forms
of payment available under the applicable Retirement Plan at the time such election is made.       B.  Separation From Service
After 1992 and Prior to 2001  . In the case of a Participant whose Separation From Service occurs after December 31, 1992, and prior to January 1, 2001, the BEP Benefits shall be payable to the Participant as follows:   
  1.  Standard Form of Payment . A Participant to whom this Section VI.B applies who does not make a timely election pursuant to
Section VI.B.2 herein shall receive his accrued and vested BEP Benefits, commencing on the same date as such Participant commences payment of his benefit under the applicable Retirement Plan, as follows:   
  (a) If the Participant receives his benefit under the applicable Retirement Plan in an annuity form of payment, in the same form of
payment as received by the Participant under the applicable Retirement Plan.      (b) If the Participant elects to receive his
benefit under the applicable Retirement Plan in a lump sum, in one of the annuity forms of payment available at that time under the applicable Retirement Plan, pursuant to an election made by the Participant in writing, concurrent with the
Participant s benefit election under the applicable Retirement Plan, which shall become irrevocable as of the date payment of BEP Benefits commences.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          8   

2.  Optional Forms of Payment . A Participant to whom this Section VI.B applies may
elect to receive his BEP Benefits in the form of a lump sum cash payment,  provided   that  at least one year prior to Separation From Service, the Participant irrevocably elects, in writing, to receive his BEP Benefits in such form, which
payment shall be made within 60 days after such Participant commences payment of his benefit under the applicable Retirement Plan, except that in the case of a Participant who is eligible to retire under the applicable Retirement Plan who has an
involuntary Separation From Service or unplanned retirement and whose election to receive the BEP Benefit in the form of a lump sum was made at least 90 days prior to such involuntary Separation From Service or unplanned retirement, such payment
shall be made on the first day of the first month following the one-year anniversary of his Separation From Service.      3.
 1993 Retirement Window (Voluntary Retirement Program) . Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of a Participant who is a member of the Retirement Income Plan who elected between October 1, 1993 and December 30, 1993, inclusive,
to retire under Article 19 of the Retirement Income Plan (as then in effect), the BEP Benefits shall be payable to the Participant in the same form as the Participant s benefit under the Retirement Income Plan (utilizing the same actuarial
assumptions used to compute the Participant s Retirement Income Plan benefit payments or such other assumptions as may be determined by the Pension Committee from time to time), commencing within 60 days after the earlier of (a) his
Separation From Service entitling him to receive payments under the Retirement Income Plan, (b) his death, or (c) if the Participant s employment terminates prior to the date he is entitled to receive payments under the Retirement
Income Plan, the date he attains his Early Retirement Date under the Retirement Income Plan.       C.  Separation From Service
After 2000 and Prior to January 1, 2005  . In the case of a Participant whose Separation From Service occurs after December 31, 2000, and prior to January 1, 2005, the BEP Benefits shall be payable to the Participant as follows:
     1.  Standard Form of Payment . A Participant to whom this Section VI.C applies who does not make a timely election
pursuant to Section VI.C.2 herein shall receive his accrued and vested BEP Benefits, commencing on the same date as such Participant commences payment of his benefit under the applicable Retirement Plan, as follows:   
  (a) If the Participant receives his benefit under the applicable Retirement Plan in annuity form of payment, in the same form of payment
as received by the Participant under the applicable Retirement Plan.      (b) If the Participant elects to receive his benefit
under the applicable Retirement Plan in a lump sum, in one of the annuity forms of payment available at that time under the applicable Retirement Plan, pursuant to an election made by the Participant in writing, concurrent with the
Participant s benefit election under the applicable Retirement Plan, which shall become irrevocable as of the date payment of BEP Benefits commences.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          9   

2.  Optional Forms of Payment . A Participant to whom this Section VI.C applies may
elect to receive his BEP Benefits in the form of a lump sum cash payment and/or a lump sum credit to the Participant s BEP Savings Plan account equal to 25%, 50%, 75% or 100% of the BEP Benefit, as elected by the Participant, with the
remaining portion of the BEP Benefit payable in the form of payment set out in Section VI.C.1;  provided   that  (i) the Participant is eligible to retire under the applicable Retirement Plan or, effective as of April 1, 2003, is
Rule of 70 Eligible as of the date of his Separation From Service and (ii) no later than the last day of the calendar year prior to his Separation From Service and 90 days prior to his Separation From Service the Participant irrevocably elects,
in writing, to receive payment of his BEP Benefits in such form. The lump sum payment and/or credit to the BEP-Savings Plan made pursuant to this Section VI.C.2 shall be made within 60 days after commencement of the Participant s benefits under
the applicable Retirement Plan.      3.  Separation From Service During 2004 . Notwithstanding anything in Section VI.C.2 to
the contrary, a Participant who has a Separation From Service during 2004 and who, at the time of such Separation From Service is eligible to retire under the applicable Retirement Plan or is Rule of 70 Eligible, may modify or revoke a previous
election made pursuant to Section VI.C.2, provided such modification or revocation occurs no later than the last day of the calendar year prior to his Separation From Service and 90 days prior to his Separation From Service.   
   D.  Separation From Service on or After January 1, 2005 and Prior to January 1, 2007  . In the case of a Participant
whose Separation From Service occurs on or after January 1, 2005 and prior to January 1, 2007, the BEP Benefits shall be payable to the Participant as follows:      1.  Default Form of Payment . Subject to Section VI.D.3, below, a Participant to whom this Section VI.D applies and who, as of the date of his Separation From Service either (A) is not eligible
to retire under the applicable Retirement Plan, (B) is not Rule of 70 Eligible or (C) is eligible to retire under the applicable Retirement Plan or is Rule of 70 Eligible, but does not make a timely election pursuant to Section VI.D.2
herein, shall receive his accrued and vested BEP Benefits as follows:      (a) The Participant s pre-409A Benefits   1    shall be payable in the standard form of payment as described in
Section VI.C.1, commencing on the same date as the Participant s applicable Retirement Plan benefit commences or is distributed.   

1      
    Defined in Section IV.C.1 as Benefits that accrued and vested prior to January 1, 2005 .
     
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          10   

(b) The portion of such Participant s BEP Benefits that are accrued and vested on or
after January 1, 2005 ( post-409A Benefits ) shall be payable in a lump sum cash payment. The amount of such lump sum payment shall be determined as of (and, except as set forth in Section VI.G or Section VI.D.3(c) herein, such lump
sum payment shall be made on or about) the first day of the month following the Participant s Separation From Service.   
  2.  Optional Forms of Payment . A Participant to whom this Section VI.D applies who, as of the date of his Separation From Service,
is either eligible to retire under an applicable Retirement Plan or is Rule of 70 Eligible shall be permitted to elect payment under one or more of the following forms of payment,  provided   that  such election is made no later than 12
months prior to the date of such Participant s Separation From Service:      (a) With respect to the Participant s
pre-409A Benefits, in either a cash lump sum payment or a lump sum credit to such Participant s BEP Savings Plan account. The amount of such lump sum payment or credit to the BEP-Savings Plan shall be determined as of (and such lump sum
payment or credit shall be made on or about) the same date as such Participant commences payment of his benefit under the applicable Retirement Plan. A Participant electing to have such Participant s Benefits paid in a cash lump sum pursuant to
this Section VI.D.2(a) may modify such election only to elect instead that his BEP Benefits be credited to the BEP Savings Plan. If a Participant elects a lump sum credit to such Participant s BEP Savings Plan account or revokes an
election to receive a cash lump sum payment by making a new election for a lump sum credit to his BEP Savings Plan account pursuant to this Section VI.D.2(a), such amount shall be subject to the payment election in effect under the
BEP Savings Plan with respect to that portion of the Participant s BEP Savings Plan account that was credited and vested prior to 2005. A Participant electing to have his Benefits credited to the BEP Savings Plan pursuant to this
Section VI.D.2(a) may not make any subsequent elections under this Plan.      (b) With respect to the Participant s
post-409A Benefits, as a lump sum credit to such Participant s BEP Savings Plan account,  provided   that  such election satisfies the BEP Election Rules. The amount of such lump sum credit shall be determined as of (and such
lump sum credit shall be made on or about) the first day of the first month following Separation From Service.      3.  Special
Provisions Relating to Rule of 70 Eligibility .      (a)  In General . The ability to elect an optional form of payment
under this Section D is limited to Participants who, as of their Separation From Service, are eligible to retire under an applicable Retirement Plan or are Rule of 70 Eligible. To be Rule of 70 Eligible, a Participant must, among other things,
satisfy the Release Requirements as defined under the definition of Rule of 70 Eligible. Under certain circumstances, the Release Requirements could enable a Participant to change the form and/or time of payment in violation of Code section 409A.
For example, if a Participant has an election to receive Benefits in the form of a lump sum credit to such Participant s   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          11   

BEP Savings Plan account (which in turn is subject to the Participant s deferred payment election under the BEP Savings Plan) and that election applies if she is Rule of 70
Eligible upon Separation From Service (but not otherwise), she could effectively revoke that election at Separation From Service and receive payment upon Separation From Service by intentionally not satisfying the Release Requirements. Further, a
Participant who is Rule of 70 Eligible may be entitled to more favorable early commencement adjustment factors pursuant to the terms of the applicable Retirement Plan. Because the Plan Administrator cannot calculate the Participant s benefit
without knowing whether the Release Requirements have been satisfied, a Participant could affect the time at which her Benefits are paid by delaying the signing of a required release. Because the Company believes the foregoing would violate Code
section 409A, the Company has adopted the special provisions relating to Rule of 70 Eligibility stated herein that apply to Participants who have a Separation from Service on or after January 1, 2005.   
  (b)  Form of Payment . In recognition of paragraph (a), above, and notwithstanding provisions to the contrary, if (i) a
Participant is not Rule of 70 Eligible solely because the Participant failed to satisfy the Release Requirements, (ii) the Participant properly elected an optional form of payment, and (iii) the elected optional form of payment applies if
the Participant is Rule of 70 Eligible upon Separation From Service, then the Participant s vested Benefits shall be paid in the optional form elected by the Participant in accordance with Section VI.D.2 and not in the default form of payment
specified in Section VI.D.1, however, the amount payable shall be determined using the early commencement adjustment factors applicable to a vested terminated Participant and not the factors applicable to a Participant who is Rule of 70 Eligible.
     (c)  Time of Payment . In recognition of paragraph (a), above, and notwithstanding provisions to the contrary, if
payment could permissibly be made in one year or a subsequent year, depending on whether and when a Participant satisfies the Release Requirements, payment shall be made or commence in the subsequent year (together with interest accrued from the
first day of the first month following the Participant s Separation From Service until the first day of the month in which distribution occurs at the interest rate being used to determine lump-sum payment options under the applicable Retirement
Plan) regardless of when or whether the Participant satisfies any applicable Release Requirements. If the Participant fails to satisfy any applicable Release Requirement within the time period for doing so, the amount payable to the Participant
shall be determined using the early commencement adjustment factors applicable to a vested terminated Participant and not the factors applicable to a Participant who is Rule of 70 Eligible.   
   E.  Separation From Service After 2006  . In the case of a Participant whose Separation From Service occurs on or after
January 1, 2007, the BEP Benefits shall be payable to the Participant in the default form of payment set forth in Section VI.E.1 herein, unless the Participant is either eligible to retire under the applicable Retirement Plan or is Rule of 70
Eligible as of the date of his Separation From Service and the Participant makes a timely election for an optional form of payment in accordance with Section VI.E.2 herein.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          12   

1.  Default Form of Payment . Subject to Section VI.E.3, a Participant to whom this
Section VI.E applies who, as of the date of his Separation From Service either (A) is not eligible to retire under the applicable Retirement Plan, (B) is not Rule of 70 Eligible or (C) is eligible to retire under the applicable
Retirement Plan or is Rule of 70 Eligible but does not elect an optional form of payment allowed under VI.E.2 that satisfies the BEP Election Rules (see Section VI.E.5(b), below) shall receive his accrued and vested BEP Benefits in a cash lump sum
payment. The amount of such lump sum payment shall be determined as of (and, subject to Section VI.G and Section VI.E.3(b) herein, such lump sum payment shall be made on or about) the first day of the month following such Participant s
Separation From Service.      2.  Optional Form of Payment . A Participant to whom this Section VI.E applies who, as of the
date of his Separation From Service is either eligible to retire under an applicable Retirement Plan or is Rule of 70 Eligible shall be permitted to elect to receive his accrued and vested BEP Benefits as a lump sum credit to such Participant s
BEP Savings Plan account,  provided   that  such election satisfies the BEP Election Rules. The amount of such lump sum credit shall be determined as of, and such lump sum credit shall be made on or about, the first day of the first
month following Separation From Service. A Participant electing the optional form of payment under this Section VI.E.2 may not make any subsequent elections under this Plan.      3.  Special Provisions Relating to Rule of 70 Eligibility .      (a)  Form of
Payment . In recognition of Section VI.D.3(a), above, and notwithstanding provisions to the contrary, if (i) a Participant is not Rule of 70 Eligible solely because the Participant failed to satisfy the Release Requirements, and
(ii) the Participant properly elected an optional form of payment, and (iii) the elected optional form of payment applies if the Participant is Rule of 70 Eligible upon Separation From Service, then the Participant s vested Benefits
shall be paid in the optional form elected by the Participant pursuant to Section VI.E.2 and not in the default form of payment specified in Section VI.E.1 however, the amount payable shall be determined using the early commencement adjustment
factors applicable to a vested terminated Participant and not the factors applicable to a Participant who is Rule of 70 Eligible.      (b)  Time of Payment . In recognition of Section VI.D.3(a), above, and notwithstanding provisions to the contrary, if payment could permissibly be made in one year or a subsequent year, depending on
whether and when a Participant satisfies the Release Requirements, payment shall be made or commence in the subsequent year (together with interest accrued from the first day of the first month following the Participant s Separation From
Service until the first day of the month in which distribution occurs at the interest rate being used to determine lump-sum payment   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          13   

options under the applicable Retirement Plan) regardless of when or whether the Participant satisfies any applicable Release Requirements. If the Participant fails to satisfy any applicable
Release Requirement within the time period for doing so, the amount payable to the Participant shall be determined using the early commencement adjustment factors applicable to a vested terminated Participant and not the factors applicable to a
Participant who is Rule of 70 Eligible.      4.  Prior Elections .   
  (a) The Company determined to preserve certain benefits, rights, and features of the Plan as in effect prior to enactment of Code
section 409A, that is, to grandfather Benefits to the extent accrued and vested prior to January 1, 2005. In addition, during the 2005 and 2006 Plan Years, Participants were allowed to make separate elections as to the time or form of payment
of pre-409A Benefits and as to post-409A Benefits (referred to as  split elections ). Effective as of January 1, 2007, split elections are no longer permitted but the Company has intended to preserve any elections made prior to 2005,
existing split elections and the grandfathered status of the pre-409A Benefits that remain subject to these grandfathered elections. Thus, the Company has administered the Plan consistent with such intent. However, the Company also has permitted and
desires to continue permitting Participants with these grandfathered elections to make new payment elections in compliance with Code section 409A. Thus, the Company has adopted the rules set forth in this subsection 4.   
  (b) The following rules apply to a Participant (i) whose Separation From Service occurs on or after January 1, 2007, and
(ii) who upon Separation From Service is either eligible to retire under an applicable Retirement Plan or Rule of 70 Eligible (disregarding the Release Requirements) and (iii) who made an optional form of payment election under this Plan
prior to January 1, 2007:      (i) The Participant s pre-2007 election shall continue to apply until the Participant
makes a new election that is permitted under the Plan.      (ii) If the Participant (1) made an election prior to
January 1, 2005, and (2) did not make an election between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2006, then ( x ) the pre-2005 election shall continue to apply with respect to the pre-409A Benefits, and ( y ) the
default form of payment shall apply to the post-409A Benefits subject to a new election under this Plan, in which case subparagraph (iv), below, shall apply.      (iii) If the Participant (1) made a split election, and (2) has not made a subsequent election, then the split election shall continue to apply subject to a new election under this Plan, in
which case subparagraph (iv), below, shall apply.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          14   

(iv) If the Participant makes a new election under this Plan after 2006, then: (1) the
Plan shall treat all Benefits under the Plan as post-409A Benefits, and (2) the new election shall apply to the Participant s entire Benefit.      (v) If the prior election (split or otherwise) included an election to receive BEP Benefits as a lump sum credit to such Participant s BEP Savings Plan, and the Participant makes a new election
after 2006 under the BEP Savings Plan, then: (1) the Participant s pre-409A Benefits shall be treated as post-409A Benefits, (2) the new election under the BEP Savings Plan shall apply to the Participant s entire
Benefit, and (3) the Participant may not make any subsequent elections under this Plan.      The tables attached to the Plan in Exhibit B
demonstrate the manner in which the requirements of this Section VI.D.4 apply to a Participant described in this paragraph (b).   
  5.  BEP Savings Plan Elections .      (a)  Background . The Company determined to preserve certain benefits, rights, and features of the Plan as in effect prior to Code section 409A, that is, to grandfather Benefits to the extent accrued
and vested prior to January 1, 2005. In addition, during the 2005 and 2006 Plan Years, Participants were allowed to make split elections under the Plan as to pre-409A Benefits and as to post-409A Benefits. Effective as of January 1, 2007,
split elections are no longer permitted under the Plan. The Company has permitted and desires to continue permitting Participants with pre-2005 or split elections under the Plan to make new distribution elections. The only alternative distribution
method available under the Plan with respect to an election made after 2006 is a credit to the BEP Savings Plan. Certain rules (referred to as the  Subsequent Deferral Rules  under the BEP Savings Plan) apply to changes in the
time and/or form of payment of a Participant s BEP Savings Plan account that became vested on or after January 1, 2005. Similar rules (the BEP Election Rules set forth below) apply to changes in the time and/or form of payment of a
Participant s post-409A Benefits. In some cases, a Participant will have a payment election in effect under the BEP Savings Plan that satisfies those rules with respect to Benefits under this Plan and in other cases a new election under
the BEP Savings Plan will be required. The rules set forth in this subsection 5 are intended to coordinate transfers from this Plan with payment elections under the BEP Savings Plan in a way that complies with Code section 409A and thus
apply when a Participant elects to transfer post-409A Benefits from this Plan to the BEP Savings Plan.      (b)
 Rules . The following rules (the  BEP Election Rules ) apply to any election made by a Participant to receive post-409A Benefits in the form of a credit to his BEP Savings Plan account.   
  (i) The Participant must elect, pursuant to the terms of the BEP Savings Plan, the date that payments will commence from the
BEP Savings Plan and whether the payment will be made from the BEP Savings Plan in a lump sum or in annual installments of two to 15 years.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          15   

(ii) The Participant may not transfer back to this Plan any amount credited from this Plan
to the BEP Savings Plan pursuant to an election made on or after January 1, 2005.      (iii) Such election must be made
no later than 12 months prior to the date such Participant s Separation From Service occurs;      (iv) Such election will
not be valid and effective until 12 months after it is received by the Plan Administrator; and      (v) Such election must defer
payment of the Participant s Benefit in a lump sum or the commencement of payment of the Participant s Benefit in installments at least five years from the Participant s Separation From Service, pursuant to either (1) an existing
election with respect to the portion of the Participant s BEP Savings Plan account that became vested on or after January 1, 2005 or (2) a new election made in accordance with the terms of the BEP Savings Plan that apply to
participants who have a Separation From Service after 2006.       F.  De Minimis Lump Sum  . Notwithstanding any
provision of the Plan or payment election of a Participant to the contrary:      1. If the present value of the vested BEP
Benefits of a Participant whose Separation From Service is prior to January 1, 2006 is $15,000 or less, such vested BEP Benefits shall be distributed to or in respect of the Participant in a single lump sum on or about the first day of the
month following such Participant s Separation From Service.      2. If the present value of the vested Benefits of a
Participant whose Separation From Service is on or after January 1, 2006 is less than $10,000, such vested BEP Benefits shall be distributed to or in respect of the Participant in a single lump sum on or about the first day of the month
following such Participant s Separation From Service.       G.  Specified Employees  . Notwithstanding any
provision of the Plan or payment election of a Participant to the contrary, if a Participant is a Specified Employee on the date of his Separation From Service, payment of his BEP Benefit shall occur no earlier than the date that is six months after
the Participant s Separation From Service (unless such Participant dies, in which event the accrued and vested BEP Benefits shall be payable in accordance with Section VI.H hereof); except, however, that (i) if such Specified
Employee s Separation From Service occurs prior to January 1, 2007, then only such portion of the Specified Employee s BEP Benefits that were not earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 shall be subject to such six-month
payment   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          16   

delay, and (ii) if such Specified Employee s Separation From Service occurs after December 31, 2006 and the Specified Employee has in effect a payment election made prior to
January 1, 2007, as documented in Exhibit B to the Plan, then the portion of his BEP Benefit that was earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 shall be paid in accordance with such election without regard to this Section VI.G. Any
portion of the vested BEP Benefits that are subject to the six-month delay described in this Section VI.G and that would otherwise be paid to a Specified Employee prior to the end of such six-month period shall be distributed (together with interest
accrued from the originally scheduled payment date until the first day of the seventh month following the Participant s Separation From Service at the interest rate being used to determine lump-sum payment options under the applicable
Retirement Plan) on the first day of the month that begins coincident with or next following the six-month anniversary of the Participant s Separation From Service.       H.  Payment of Benefits in the Event of the Participant s Death  . Upon the death of a Participant prior to payment of all of his accrued and vested BEP Benefits, the survivor portion of
the Participant s BEP Benefit shall be distributed to his joint annuitant or Beneficiary as follows:      1.
 Pre-Retirement Death Benefit . In the event of the death of a Participant prior to commencement of his BEP Benefit, the Participant s Beneficiary shall be an individual, if any, who is entitled to receive a qualified pre-retirement
survivor annuity or qualified pre-early retirement survivor annuity under the applicable Retirement Plan and such Beneficiary, if any, shall be entitled to receive a pre-retirement death benefit under this Plan equal to a percentage (equal to the
percentage of the Participant s benefit under the applicable Retirement Plan that such Beneficiary is entitled to receive) of the Participant s vested BEP Benefit actuarially adjusted in the same manner (and using the same actuarial
assumptions) as the Participant s benefit under the applicable Retirement Plan is adjusted to provide the qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity or qualified pre-early retirement survivor annuity, as applicable, to the Beneficiary. Such
pre-retirement death benefit shall be payable to the Beneficiary as follows:      (a) If the date of the Participant s
Separation From Service is after January 1, 1993 and prior to January 1, 2005, the pre-retirement death benefit shall be distributed to the Beneficiary in the form of an annuity for the life of the Beneficiary commencing on the same date
that such Beneficiary commences payment of the qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity or qualified pre-early retirement survivor annuity, as the case may be, under the applicable Retirement Plan, unless the Participant was eligible to and timely
elected to receive all or a portion of his BEP Benefit in the form of a single lump sum cash payment or a lump sum credit to his BEP Savings Plan account, in which case that portion of the pre-retirement death benefit shall be distributed to
the Beneficiary in the form of a single lump sum payment on the same date that such Beneficiary commences payment of the qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity or qualified pre-early retirement survivor annuity, as the case may be, under the
applicable Retirement Plan;   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          17   

(b) If the date of the Participant s Separation From Service is on or after
January 1, 2005, and before December 31, 2006:      (i) the portion of the pre-retirement death benefit that accrued
and vested prior to January 1, 2005 shall be distributed to the Beneficiary in the form of an annuity for the life of the Beneficiary commencing on the same date that such Beneficiary commences payment of the qualified pre-retirement survivor
annuity or qualified pre-early retirement survivor annuity, as the case may be, under the applicable Retirement Plan; provided, however, that if the Participant was eligible to and timely elected to receive all or a portion of his pre-409A Benefit
in the form of a single lump sum cash payment or a lump sum credit to his BEP Savings Plan account, the portion to which such election applies shall be distributed to the Beneficiary in the form of a single lump sum payment on the same date
that such Beneficiary commences payment of the qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity or qualified pre-early retirement survivor annuity, as the case may be, under the applicable Retirement Plan.   
  (ii) the portion of the pre-retirement death benefit that accrued and vested on and after January 1, 2005 shall be distributed to
the Beneficiary in the form of a single lump sum payment on the first day of the first month following the date of the Participant s death, notwithstanding any election made by the Participant to credit all or a portion of his BEP Benefit to
the BEP Savings Plan.      (c) If the date of the Participant s Separation From Service is on or after January 1,
2007, the pre-retirement death benefit shall be distributed to the Beneficiary in the form of a single lump sum payment on the first day of the first month following the date of the Participant s death, notwithstanding any election made by the
Participant to credit all or a portion of his BEP Benefit to the BEP Savings Plan.      2.  Post-Retirement Survivor
Annuities . In the event a Participant s death is after January 1, 1993 and after commencement of his BEP Benefit and the Participant s BEP Benefit is payable in a form that requires or allows the Participant to designate a
beneficiary or contingent annuitant, the Participant s Beneficiary shall be determined as follows:      (a) If the
Participant has designated a beneficiary or contingent annuitant under the applicable Retirement Plan, such person shall be deemed the Beneficiary for purposes of this Plan.      (b) If the Participant has not designated a beneficiary or contingent annuitant under such Retirement Plan, or if no such beneficiary or contingent annuitant is living at the time of the
Participant s death, the Beneficiary for purposes of this Plan shall be the person or persons designated by the Participant under this Plan.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          18   

The payments made to one or more of such persons shall completely discharge the Plan with respect to the
such amounts.       I.  Other Permissible Payment Events  . Benefits under the Plan may be paid if and to the extent
reasonably necessary to permit the Participant to avoid the violation of an applicable Federal, state, local or foreign ethics law or conflicts of interest law within the meaning of Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(iii)(B).   
   J.  No Post-Separation Elections  . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a Participant may not make any
election(s) regarding the time and form of the payment of his Benefits subsequent to his Separation From Service.       K.
 Reemployment  .      1. If a Participant s Benefits have not been fully distributed under the Plan and the
Participant commences re-employment with a Participating Employer or a subsidiary or affiliate of the Company, the following rules shall apply:      (a) Any pre-409A Benefits being paid to the Participant pursuant to the terms of the Plan in the form of an annuity at the time of reemployment shall be suspended during the period of reemployment. Upon
commencement of re-employment with a Participating Employer, the Participant will accrue additional Benefits in accordance with the terms of this Plan on all service with his Participating Employer(s) (pre and post re-employment); provided, however,
that, upon the Participant s subsequent Separation From Service, the Participant s pre-409A Benefits will be offset by the value of Benefits previously paid, if any. The form of payment of the Participant s Benefits after the
subsequent Separation From Service shall be determined in accordance with the Plan provisions applicable to Separations From Service that occur on the date the subsequent Separation From Service occurs, notwithstanding any prior election made by the
Participant.      (b) If for any reason, the Participant s post-409A Benefits has not been paid prior to the date the
Participant commences re-employment, such benefit shall be paid to the Participant in accordance with his payment election and in accordance with the terms of this Plan. Upon commencement of re-employment with a Participating Employer, the
Participant will accrue additional Benefits in accordance with the terms of this Plan on all service with his Participating Employer(s) (pre and post re-employment); provided, however, that, upon the Participant s subsequent Separation From
Service, the Participant s Benefits will be offset by the value of Benefits previously paid, if any. The form of payment of the Participant s Benefits after the subsequent Separation From Service shall be determined in accordance with the
Plan provisions applicable to Separations From Service that occur on the date the subsequent Separation From Service occurs, notwithstanding any prior election made by the Participant.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          19   

2. If a Participant s Benefits have been paid in a lump sum or have been credited to
the BEP-Savings Plan, and the Participant commences re-employment with a Participating Employer or a subsidiary or affiliate of the Company, the Participant, upon commencement of such re-employment with a Participating Employer, will accrue
additional Benefits in accordance with the terms of this Plan on all service with his Participating Employer(s) (pre and post re-employment);  provided ,  however , that, upon the Participant s subsequent Separation From Service, the
Participant s Benefits will be offset by the value of Benefits previously paid or credited to the BEP-Savings Plan. The form of payment of the Participant s Benefits after the subsequent Separation From Service shall be determined in
accordance with the Plan provisions applicable to Separations From Service that occur on the date the subsequent Separation From Service occurs, notwithstanding any prior election made by the Participant.   
   VII. ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN.        A.  Administration  . The Pension Committee shall administer this Plan. As Plan Administrator, the Pension Committee shall have full discretionary authority to answer all questions arising in
connection with the Plan, including its interpretation, application and administration, may adopt procedural rules, and may employ and rely on such legal counsel, such actuaries, such accountants and such agents as it may deem advisable to assist in
the administration of the Plan. Any and all decisions of the Pension Committee as to interpretation or application of this Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons, shall be given full force and effect, and shall be reviewed by any court
or arbitrator on an arbitrary and capricious standard, rather than a  de   novo  standard.       B.
 Delegation  . The Pension Committee may (1) designate a person or persons and/or appoint an administrative committee to carry out the day-to-day administration of the Plan, and (2) authorize any agent to execute or deliver any
instrument or make any payment on the Pension Committee s behalf or provide such services as the Pension Committee may require in carrying out the provisions of the Plan.       C.  Limitation of Liability  . Neither the Pension Committee nor any member of the Board of Directors nor any officer, employee or agent of the Company shall incur any liability individually or
on behalf of any other individuals or on behalf of the Company for any act, or failure to act, in relation to the Plan or the funds of the Plan unless such action or inaction is adjudged to be due to fraud. The Pension Committee and each member of
the Board of Directors shall be entitled, in good faith, to rely or act upon any report or other information furnished to him by any other officer or other employee of the Company, the Company s independent certified public accountants, or
  
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          20   

any executive compensation consultant, legal counsel or other professional retained by the Company. None of the Pension Committee, the Compensation Committee or any member of the Board of
Directors shall be entitled to act on or decide any matter relating solely to himself or any of his rights or benefits under the Plan.       D.  Indemnification  . The Pension Committee, each member of the Board of Directors of the Company and their delegates, and the officers, employees and agents of the Company shall be
indemnified by the Company, to the extent permitted by the Company s certificate of incorporation or by the Company s bylaws, against any and all liabilities arising by reason of any act, or failure to act, in relation to the Plan or the
funds of the Plan, including, without limitation, expenses incurred in the defense of any claim relating to the Plan or the funds of the Plan, and amounts paid in any compromise or settlement relating to the Plan or the funds of the Plan, unless
such action or inaction is adjudged to be due to fraud.       E.  Claims Procedure  . All claims for benefits under the
Plan shall be submitted and reviewed in accordance with the Claims Appeal Guidelines (attached hereto). No claimant shall institute any action or proceeding in any state or federal court of law or equity or before any administrative tribunal or
arbitrator for a claim of benefits under the Plan until the claimant has first exhausted the Plan s review procedures set forth in the Claims Appeal Guidelines. Any and all decisions of the Company pursuant to the Claims Appeal Guidelines shall
be conclusive and binding on all persons, shall be given full force and effect, and shall be reviewed by any court or arbitrator on an arbitrary and capricious standard, rather than a  de   novo  standard.   
   F.  Statute of Limitations  . A claimant may not bring a lawsuit to recover benefits under the Plan until he has exhausted the
internal administrative process established pursuant to this Section VII. No legal action may be commenced at all unless commenced no later than three (3) years following the issuance of a final decision on the claim for benefits, or the
expiration of the final appeal decision period if no decision is issued. This three-year statute of limitations on suits for all benefits shall apply in any forum where the claimant may initiate such suit.   
   G.  Expense  . Expenses of the Pension Committee attributable to the administration of the Plan shall be paid directly by the
Company.       VIII. GENERAL PROVISIONS.        A.  Termination of the Plan  . The Board of Directors of the Company reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time,  provided ,  however , that no termination shall be
effective retroactively. As of the effective date of termination of the Plan:      1. The Benefits of any Participant (or his
Beneficiary) whose Benefits payments have commenced shall continue to be paid;   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          21   

2. No further Benefits shall accrue on behalf of any Participant whose Benefits payments
have not commenced and such Participant (or his Beneficiary) shall retain the right to Benefits hereunder; and      3. Benefits
payments that have not commenced as of the Plan termination date may be accelerated provided that (a) the Company s termination and liquidation of the Plan does not occur proximate to a downturn in the financial health of the Company,
(b) no payment of Benefits are made earlier than 12 months after all action necessary to irrevocably terminate and liquidate the Plan has been completed other than payments that would be payable under the terms of the Plan if the action to
terminate and liquidate the Plan had not occurred, (c) all payment of Benefits are completed within 24 months thereafter, (d) all other nonqualified defined benefit pension plans maintained by the Company that would be aggregated with the
Plan under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(c) are terminated with respect to all participants in such plans, and (e) the Company does not adopt a new plan that would be aggregated with any terminated plan under Treasury Regulation section
1.409A-1(c) if the Participant participated in both plans, at any time within three years following the date the Company takes all necessary action to irrevocably terminate and liquidate the Plan, and (f) the conditions of Treasury Regulation
section 1.409A-3(j)(ix)(C) are satisfied.       B.  Plan Not a Contract of Employment  . Nothing in this Plan shall be
construed as giving any employee the right to be retained in the employ of any Participating Employer. Each Participating Employer in the Plan expressly reserves the right to dismiss any employee at any time without regard to the effect which such
dismissal might have upon him under the Plan.       C.  Amendment  . This Plan may be amended at any time by the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, or by the Pension Committee at any time in accordance with the materiality guidelines regarding modifications to employee benefit plans established by the Compensation Committee,
except that no such amendment shall deprive any Participant of his Benefits accrued and vested at the time of such amendment.   
   D.  Funding  . All amounts payable in accordance with this Plan shall constitute a general unsecured obligation of the Company
and the other Participating Employers. Benefits payable under this Plan, as well as any administrative costs related to the Plan, shall not be funded and shall be made out of the general assets of the Company and the other Participating Employers or
any grantor trust established for this purpose.      The Company may, in its discretion, establish a grantor trust for the benefit
of the Participants of the Plan. The assets placed in such trust shall be held separate and apart from other Company funds and shall be used exclusively for the purposes set forth in the Plan and the applicable trust agreement, subject to the
following conditions:   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          22   

1. the creation of said trust shall not cause the Plan to be other than  unfunded 
for purposes of Title I of ERISA;      2. the Company shall be treated as  grantor  of said trust for purposes of
section 677 of the Code;      3. the agreement of such trust shall provide that its assets may be used upon the insolvency or
bankruptcy of the Company to satisfy claims of the Company s general creditors and that the rights of such general creditors are enforceable by them under federal and state law;   
  4. the trust shall not be established as an offshore trust; and      5. the trust shall not provide that its assets will become restricted to the payment of Benefits in the event of a change in the financial health of the Company.   
  To the extent that a grantor trust is established by the Company, the Pension Committee may from time to time reserve unto itself the
right to vote any shares of equity securities held in a pension trust fund or may permit such other committee, or investment manager or managers as it may designate to exercise such responsibility.   
  No Participant or Beneficiary shall have any right, title or interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company may make to
aid the Company in meeting its obligation hereunder or assets held by any trust. Nothing contained in this Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship,
between the Company and any Participant or Beneficiary. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company hereunder, such rights are no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company.
      E.  Withholding Taxes  . The Company shall deduct from any payment made under the Plan the amount of withholding
taxes due any federal, state or local authority in respect of such payment and take such other action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy all obligations for payment of such withholding, including, without limitation,
satisfaction of the obligation to pay Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) taxes imposed under the Code and/or to pay state, local or foreign tax obligations arising from participation in the plan in accordance with Treasury Regulation section
1.409A-3(j)(4)(vi) or (xi).       F.  Compliance with Code Section 409A  .   
  1. It is intended that the terms of the Plan and Participant and Beneficiary rights hereunder meet applicable requirements of Code
section 409A and the final Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder so that a Participant or Beneficiary is not deemed to be in constructive receipt of compensation until such time as benefits are actually paid. The Plan shall be interpreted and
administered to the extent possible in a manner consistent with the foregoing statement of intent.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          23   

2. In each case where the Plan provides for the payment of Benefits that were accrued or
vested after December 31, 2004 within a designated period of time after Separation From Service (e.g., within 90 days after Separation From Service) and such period begins and ends in different calendar years, the exact payment date within such
range shall be determined by the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, and the Participant shall have no right to designate the year in which payment shall be made.      3. In each case where the Plan provides for the payment of amounts on a specified date (for example, the first day of the month following Separation From Service), such amounts shall be treated as
distributed on that date if they are distributed no earlier than 30 days before such date and no later than the last day of the calendar year in which such date occurs, or, if later, by the 15th day of the third calendar month after such date
occurs, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(d), including without limitation the requirement that the employee shall in no event have the right directly or indirectly to influence or designate the
taxable year of payment.      4. In no event whatsoever shall the Company be liable for any additional tax interest or penalties
that may be imposed on the Participant (or his Beneficiary) as a result of Code section 409A or any damages for failing to comply with Code section 409A.       G.  Construction  .      1. This Plan shall be construed, regulated,
administered and enforced under the laws of the State of New York, without regard to its conflict of laws provisions, to the extent such laws are not superseded by applicable federal law.   
  2. Whenever appropriate, words used herein in the singular may be read in the plural, or words used herein in the plural may be read in
the singular; the masculine may be read to include the feminine and the feminine may be read to include the masculine.      3. The
illegality of any particular provision of this document shall not affect the other provisions and the document shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid provision were omitted.   
  4. Headings and subheadings in the Plan are for reference only, and if there is any conflict between such headings or subheadings and the
text of the Plan, the text shall control.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          24   

H.  Successors and Assigns  . The Plan shall be binding on the Company s
successors and assigns. No right, title or interest of any kind in the Plan or any benefit under the Plan shall be (1) transferable or assignable by a Participant (or his Beneficiary), (2) be subject to alienation, anticipation, sale,
pledge, encumbrance, garnishment, attachment, levy, execution or other legal or equitable process, or (3) be subject to debts, contracts, liabilities or engagements, torts of any Participant (or his Beneficiary), pre-nuptial agreement, divorce
decree or agreement in relation to a divorce decree, other equitable property distribution incident to divorce or other dissolution of marriage, or court order including but not limited to a domestic relations order and/or a qualified domestic
relations order under the applicable Retirement Plan. Any attempt to alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, garnish, attach or take any other action subject to legal or equitable process or encumber or dispose of any interest in the Plan shall be
void.       IX. EFFECTIVE DATE.       This amended and restated Plan shall be effective as of January 1, 2012 except as otherwise specified herein.       X. SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE SPIN-OFF OF U.S. MEAD JOHNSON TRANSFERRED EMPLOYEES.        A.  Introduction  . Pursuant to that certain Separation Agreement by and among the Company, Mead Johnson Nutrition Company, and MJN Restructuring Holdco, Inc., dated January 31, 2009 (the
 Separation Agreement ), the business of the Company was separated, effective as of the Separation Date (as defined below), into two independent businesses, the  Company Business  and the  Mead Johnson Business,  and
the assets and liabilities of the Mead Johnson Business were transferred to MJN Restructuring Holdco., Inc. and members of the  Mead Johnson Group  as that term is defined in Section 1.49 of that certain Employee Matters Agreement by
and between BMS and MJN Restructuring Holdco., Inc., dated January 31, 2009, (collectively referred to herein as  Mead Johnson ). Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, the Company and MJN Restructuring Holdco, Inc., entered into that
certain Employee Matters Agreement, dated January 31, 2009 (the  Employee Matters Agreement ), which allocated between them the assets, liabilities and responsibilities with respect to, among other things, certain employee benefit
plans and programs. Pursuant to the Employee Matters Agreement, and that certain Plan Transfer Agreement by and between the Company and MJN Restructuring Holdco, Inc., dated January 31, 2009 (the  Plan Transfer Agreement ), and
notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, and as outlined in more detail in this Section X and subject to all of the provisions contained herein, (1) effective on the Separation Date, Mead Johnson adopted the Mead Johnson Benefit
Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan (the  Mead Johnson Plan ) and ceased to be a Participating Employer in the Plan, and each Participant who is a  US Mead Johnson Transferred Employee,  as defined in the Employee
Matters Agreement, ceased accruing benefits under this Plan, (2) all benefit   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          25   

obligations accrued pursuant to the Plan of the US Mead Johnson Transferred Employees were assigned to and assumed by Mead Johnson pursuant to the Mead Johnson Plan, and (3) on and after the
Separation Date, no employee of Mead Johnson shall be eligible to become a Participant in, or accrue or receive any benefit under, the Plan. This Section X is intended to provide provisions required to effectuate the foregoing.   
   B.  Effective Date  . This Section X shall be effective as of February 9, 2009 (the  Separation Date ).
      C.  Applicability  . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the provisions of this Section X modify
and shall supersede any provision of the Plan to the contrary. Each provision of the Plan other than those of this Section X, shall be subject to this Section X, and in the event of any inconsistency between such provision and Section X, the
provisions of this Section X shall govern.       D.  Plan Spin-off  . Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the
contrary, and as provided in more detail in this Section X, effective as of the Separation Date:      1. Mead Johnson ceased to be
a Participating Employer in the Plan;      2. Each Participant who is a  US Mead Johnson Transferred Employee  (as
defined in the Employee Matters Agreement) ceased accruing benefits under this Plan;      3. The liability for all benefits under
the Plan of the US Mead Johnson Transferred Employees (including, without limitation, all accrued benefits as of the Separation Date, and all related benefits, rights and features, ancillary benefits, optional forms of distribution, and actual or
potential early retirement benefits and retirement-type subsidies to which such individuals may become entitled) ( Mead Johnson Liabilities ) were assigned to and assumed by Mead Johnson pursuant to the Mead Johnson Plan (such assignment
and assumption of Mead Johnson Liabilities being referred to as the  Spin-off  and      4. On and after the Separation
Date, no employee of Mead Johnson shall be eligible to become a Participant in, or accrue or receive a benefit under, the Plan.   
   E.  Eligibility to Participate in the Plan  . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, (1) the term
 Regular Full-Time Employee  shall not include any employee of Mead Johnson, and (2) no employee of Mead Johnson shall become a Participant in, or accrue benefits under, the Plan during any period in which he is employed by Mead
Johnson. In the case of an individual who was a Participant in the Plan prior to the Separation Date, who became a US Mead Johnson Transferred Employee on that date, and whose accrued benefit was transferred to the Mead Johnson Plan, such individual
shall no longer be eligible to participate in the Plan, to accrue any benefit under the Plan, or to receive any benefit under the Plan.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          26   

F.  Credited Service  . In determining the benefit under the Plan, as of the
Separation Date, of each US Mead Johnson Transferred Employee that was transferred to the Mead Johnson Plan, only Hours of Service and Years of Service earned on or prior to the Separation Date, shall be taken into account for purposes of
calculating Credited Service. For all other purposes, Hours of Service and Years of Service with Mead Johnson, whether earned before or after the Separation Date, shall not be treated as Credited Service under the Plan, and no US Mead Johnson
Transferred Employee shall be entitled to any benefit under the Plan.       G.  Final Average Compensation  . In
determining the accrued benefit under the Plan, as of the Separation Date, of each US Mead Johnson Transferred Employee that was transferred to the Plan,  Final Average Compensation  shall be determined as if such US Mead Johnson
Transferred Employee incurred a Termination of Employment on the Separation Date (in the same manner as prescribed under Section 22.6 of the Retirement Income Plan.)       H.  No Benefit Payable Hereunder  . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, from and after the Separation Date, the Mead Johnson Plan shall be solely responsible for, and the
Plan, the fiduciaries with respect to the Plan, and the Company shall not have any liability for, any of the Mead Johnson Liabilities. Subject to Section I, below, (1) in no event shall any benefit be payable under the Plan to a US Mead Johnson
Transferred Employee; and (2) any additional service or compensation earned by such individual on or after the Separation Date shall not be taken account under this Plan for any purpose, and shall have no effect on, or cause any benefit to be
payable under, this Plan.       I.  Rehires  . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the case of a US Mead
Johnson Transferred Employee who, prior to the Separation Date, was a Participant in the Plan and whose benefits under the Plan were transferred as of that date to the Mead Johnson Plan, and who later terminates employment with Mead Johnson and is
reemployed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (or one of its affiliates other than Mead Johnson) ( BMS ) and becomes a Participant in the Plan upon the satisfaction of the conditions of Section III:   
  1. his Hours of Service and Years of Service (as defined by the applicable Retirement Plan) prior to his date of rehire by BMS, whether
as an employee of BMS or of Mead Johnson, shall not be recognized as Credited Service (as defined by the applicable Retirement Plan) and shall not be taken into account in the calculation of any benefit to which he may become entitled under the
terms of the Plan on account of his period of reemployment with BMS, provided that his Hours of Service and Years of Service shall be taken into account, in accordance with the terms of the Plan other than those of this Section X, for purposes of
determining his eligibility for and the vested status of any benefit to which he may become entitled under the Plan on account of his period of reemployment;   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          27   

2. his annual rate of compensation for all periods prior to his date of rehire, whether as
an employee of BMS or of Mead Johnson, shall not be taken into account in the calculation of any benefit to which he may become entitled under the Plan on account of his reemployment with BMS.   
   J.  No Separation from Service  . The Spin-off shall in no event be construed to give rise to a Separation from Service under
the Plan that would entitle a Participant to a distribution, and in no event shall any US Mead Johnson Transferred Employee be entitled to a distribution of any benefit hereunder as a result of the Spin-off. The right of a US Mead Johnson
Transferred Employee to a distribution under the Mead Johnson Plan shall be determined under the terms of that Plan.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Retirement Income Plan      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)          28   

EXHIBIT A         CLAIMS APPEAL GUIDELINES        (Attached)   
         A-1

EXHIBIT B        TABLE I: Elections in Effect Made Prior to 2006   General Rules        

Form of Payment Elected for   
   Pre-409A Benefits    
      
     Post-409A Benefits Paid in   
   Post-2007 Default Form    
      
     If Participant Makes an Election After 2006 Under
BEP-       Retirement Income Plan     

Lump Sum at same time as benefit     commences under applicable     Retirement Plan ( QBCD )   
      
    Lump Sum upon Separation     From Service   
      
    1.      Entire Benefit becomes subject to Code
section 409A.      
  2.      All Benefits distributed at same time and in same form.  
   
  3.       Available Option:  Credit entire Benefit to BEP Savings
Plan.      
  4.       MUST  either have existing election under BEP Savings Plan to
defer payment of post-409A BEP Savings Plan account at least 5 years from Separation From Service or make election under BEP Savings Plan that would defer payment of all amounts under BEP Savings Plan at least 5 years from Separation
From Service .    
 
  Credit to BEP Savings Plan at QBCD  

A-2

TABLE II: Elections in Effect made Prior to 2006   by Participant    

Participant    

Grandfathered Election for Payment of Pre-   
   409A Benefits    
      
     If Participant Makes an Election After 2006 Under
BEP-       Retirement Income Plan     

PG  
      
  100% Lump Sum at QBCD  
      
    1.      Entire Benefit becomes subject to Code
section 409A.      
  2.      All Benefits distributed at same time and in same form.  
   
  3.       Available Option:  Credit entire Benefit to BEP Savings Plan
upon Separation From Service.      
  4.       MUST  either have existing election under BEP Savings Plan to
defer payment of post-409A BEP Savings Plan account at least 5 years from Separation From Service or make election under BEP Savings Plan that would defer payment of all amounts under BEP Savings Plan at least 5 years from Separation
From Service .    
 
  MN  
      
  100% Lump Sum at QBCD  

DS  
      
  100% Lump Sum at QBCD  

JF  
      
  100% Lump Sum at QBCD  

HB  
      
  100% Credit to BEP Savings Plan at QBCD  

RM  
      
  100% Credit to BEP Savings Plan at QBCD  

A-3

TABLE III: Split Elections   General Rules    

Grandfathered Election       Applicable to Pre-409A   
   Benefits    

Election Applicable to Post-2004 Benefits    
      
     If Participant Makes an Election After 2006 Under
BEP-Retirement Income Plan     

Lump Sum at QBCD  
      
  Lump Sum upon Separation From Service (under default)  
      
    1.      Entire Benefit becomes subject to Code
section 409A.      
  2.      All Benefits distributed at same time and in same form.  
   
  3.       Available Option:  Credit entire benefit to BEP Savings
Plan.      
  4.       MUST  either have existing election under BEP Savings Plan to
defer payment of post-409A BEP Savings Plan account at least 5 years from Separation From Service or make election under BEP Savings Plan that would defer payment of all amounts under BEP Savings Plan at least 5 years from Separation
From Service .      
  5.      No further election allowed under the Plan    
 
  Lump Sum at QBCD  
      
  Credit to BEP Savings Plan Account upon Separation From Service  

Credit to BEP Savings Plan at     QBCD   
      
  Credit to BEP Savings Plan Account upon Separation From Service  

A-4

TABLE IV: Split Elections   by Participant    

Participant    
      
     Grandfathered Election   
   Applicable to Pre-409A       Benefits    

Election Applicable to Post-409A       Benefits    
      
     If Participant Makes an Election After 2006 Under
BEP- Retirement Income Plan     

CY  
      
  Lump Sum at QBCD  
      
  Lump Sum upon Separation From Service (under default)  
      
    1.      Entire Benefit becomes subject to Code
section 409A.      
  2.      All Benefits distributed at same time and in same form.  
   
  3.       Available Option:  Credit entire Benefit to BEP Savings
Plan.      
  4.       MUST  either have existing election under BEP Savings Plan to
defer payment of post-409A BEP Savings Plan account at least 5 years from Separation From Service or make election under BEP Savings Plan that would defer payment of all amounts under BEP Savings Plan at least 5 years from Separation
From Service .    
 
        RM   
      
        Lump Sum at QBCD   
      
        Credit to BEP Savings Plan upon
Separation   

BC   
      
        Lump Sum at QBCD   

AC   
      
        Lump Sum at QBCD   

EF   
      
        Lump Sum at QBCD   

JC   
      
        Credit to BEP Savings Plan at  
  QBCD   

FP   
      
        Credit to BEP Savings Plan at  
  QBCD   

MP   
      
        Credit to BEP Savings Plan at  
  QBCD   

JS   
      
        Credit to BEP Savings Plan at  
  QBCD   

A-5

</EX-10.WW>

<EX-10.XX>
 20
 d450621dex10xx.htm
 EX-10.XX

EX-10.xx 

Exhibit 10xx       BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY      BENEFIT EQUALIZATION PLAN SAVINGS AND
INVESTMENT PROGRAM       (as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2012)    

TABLE OF CONTENTS    

Page   

I.  
      
  DEFINITIONS  

1  

II.  
      
  PURPOSE AND HISTORY OF THE PLAN  

5  

III.  
      
  ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN  

5  

A.  
      
  Eligible Participants  

5  

B.  
      
  Cessation of Participation  

5  

IV.  
      
  CALCULATION OF BENEFITS  

6  

A.  
      
  Credits to Plan Accounts  

6  

B.  
      
  Code Section 415 Deferral Credits  

8  

C.  
      
  Code Section 401(a)(17) Deferral Credits  

8  

D.  
      
  Employer Credits  

9  

E.  
      
  Cancellation of Deferrals  

9  

F.  
      
  Investment Adjustments to Plan Accounts  

10  

V.  
      
  VESTING  

11  

VI.  
      
  TIME AND FORM OF PAYMENT OF ACCOUNT BALANCE  

12  

A.  
      
  Pre-April 1, 1995 Separation From Service  

12  

B.  
      
  Separation From Service on or After April 1, 1995 and Prior to January 1, 2005  

12  

C.  
      
  Separation From Service on or After January 1, 2005 and Prior to January 1, 2007  

14  

D.  
      
  Separation From Service After 2006  

15  

E.  
      
  De Minimis Lump Sum  

20  

F.  
      
  Specified Employees  

21  

G.  
      
  Payment of Account Balances in the Event of the Participant s Death  

21  

H.  
      
  Distribution for Unforeseeable Emergency  

22  

I.  
      
  Other Permissible Payment Events  

22  

J.  
      
  No Post-Separation Elections  

23  

K.  
      
  Prohibition on Acceleration of Payments  

23  

VII.  
      
  ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN  

27  

A.  
      
  Administration  

27  

B.  
      
  Delegation  

27  

C.  
      
  Limitation of Liability  

27  

D.  
      
  Indemnification  

27  

E.  
      
  Claims Procedure  

28  

F.  
      
  Statute of Limitations  

28  

G.  
      
  Expense  

28  

VIII.  
      
  GENERAL PROVISIONS  

28  

A.  
      
  Termination of the Plan  

28  

B.  
      
  Plan Not a Contract of Employment  

29  

C.  
      
  Amendment  

29  

D.  
      
  Funding  

29  

E.  
      
  Facility of Payment  

30  
        
         -i-

TABLE OF CONTENTS    
  (continued)       

Page   

F.  
      
  Withholding Taxes  

30  

G.  
      
  Compliance with Code Section 409A  

31  

H.  
      
  Construction  

31  

I.  
      
  Successors and Assigns  

32  

IX.  
      
  EFFECTIVE DATE  

32  

X.  
      
  Special Provisions Relating to the Spin-Off of U.S. Mead Johnson Transferred Employees  

32  

A.  
      
  Introduction  

32  

B.  
      
  Effective Date  

33  

C.  
      
  Applicability  

33  

D.  
      
  Plan Spin-off  

33  

E.  
      
  Eligibility to Participate in the Plan  

34  

F.  
      
  No Benefit Payable Hereunder  

34  

G.  
      
  Rehires  

34  

H.  
      
  No Separation from Service  

35  

-ii-

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY   
  BENEFIT EQUALIZATION PLAN SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PROGRAM       (as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2012)        I. DEFINITIONS.
      Unless the context or subject matter otherwise requires, the definitions set forth in this Section I shall govern in this
Plan (as herein defined). Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, to the extent capitalized terms in this Plan conflict with such terms in the SIP (as herein defined), the terms of the SIP shall control.   
    Account Balance   shall mean the sum of the Deferral Credits and Employer Credits made to a Participant s Plan
Account in accordance with Section IV and/or any BEP-Retirement Plan Credits made to such Plan Account, as adjusted to reflect Investment Adjustments, less all prior withdrawals and/or distributions.   
    Additional Annual Contributions   shall have the meaning set forth for such term in the SIP.   
    Administrative Agent   shall mean the administrative agent of the Savings Plan Committee.   
    After-Tax Contributions   shall have the meaning set forth for such term in the SIP.   
    Annual Salary   shall have the meaning set forth for such term in the SIP.   
    Beneficiary   shall mean the person or persons entitled to receive payment of the unpaid portion of a Participant s
vested Account Balance in the event of the Participant s death, determined in accordance with Section VI.G.   
    BEP Retirement Plan   shall mean the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Benefit Equalization Plan Retirement Income
Plan, and as amended from time to time.        BEP-Retirement Plan Credits   shall mean amounts credited to a
Participant s Plan Account pursuant to the Participant s distribution election, if any, under the BEP Retirement Plan.        Claims Appeal Guidelines   shall mean the Administrative Procedures for Defined Contribution Plan Claims and Appeals attached hereto as Exhibit A, and as amended from time to time.
  
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      1   

Code   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
       Company   shall mean Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and any successor or successors thereof.   
    Company Stock Fund   shall have the meaning set forth for such term in the SIP.   
    Compensation Committee   shall mean the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of
the Company.        Deferral Credits   shall mean amounts credited to a Participant s Plan Account pursuant to
Sections IV.B and IV.C.        Employee   shall have the meaning set forth for such term in the SIP.   
    Employer Credits   shall mean amounts credited to a Participant s Plan Account pursuant to Section IV.D, consisting
of Matching Credits and Non-Elective Credits.        ERISA   shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended.        Fixed Income Fund   shall have the meaning set forth for such term in the SIP.
       Installment Method   shall have the meaning set forth for such term in Section VI.A.   
    Investment Adjustments   shall mean increases or reductions to a Participant s Account Balance to reflect the
performance of the investment funds in which the Participant s Plan Account is hypothetically deemed invested in accordance with Section IV.F.        Matching Contributions   shall have the meaning set forth for such term in the SIP.        Matching Credits   shall mean amounts credited to a Participant s Plan Account pursuant to Section IV.D.1.        Non-Elective Credits   shall mean amounts credited to a Participant s Plan Account pursuant to Section IV.D.2.   
    Participant   shall mean each participant in this Plan as determined in accordance with Section III.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      2   

Participating Employer   shall mean any corporation participating in the
SIP.        Plan   shall mean the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Benefit Equalization Plan Savings and
Investment Program, as amended and restated herein, and as amended from time to time.        Plan Account   shall
mean the unfunded notional bookkeeping account or accounts reflecting the Account Balance.        Plan Year   shall
mean the calendar year.        Pre-Tax Contributions   shall have the meaning set forth for such term in the SIP.
       Retirement Eligible   shall mean that, as of the Participant s Separation From Service, the Participant
either (1) has attained age 65, or (2) has both attained age 55 and earned at least 10 Years of Service.   
    Rule of 70 Eligible   shall mean that the Participant satisfies each and every one of the following requirements:
     (1) The Participant had an involuntary Separation From Service from the Company or an affiliate with respect to which the
Participant is eligible for benefits under a Company-sponsored severance plan or agreement.      (2) As of the Participant s
Separation From Service, the Participant had completed at least ten Years of Service.      (3) As of the Participant s
Separation From Service, the Participant has combined whole and partial years of age and years of employment (measured from the Participant s date of hire to Separation From Service), the sum of which, rounded up to the next higher whole
number, equals at least 70.      (4) As of the Participant s Separation From Service, the Participant is not Retirement
Eligible.      (5) The Participant executes a general release of claims against the Company, in a form provided by the Company
(which may be in the form of a letter agreement or otherwise), returns it to the Company within the time period specified in the general release and does not revoke it (directly or indirectly) prior to the expiration of the period for revocation.
For avoidance of uncertainty, failure for any reason to return an executed general release in the form provided by the Company within the time period for doing so shall be deemed a refusal to do so (such requirements being the  Release
Requirements ).   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      3   

Savings Plan Committee   shall mean the committee appointed by the
Compensation Committee to administer this Plan. The Savings Plan Committee shall serve as Plan Administrator of the Plan.   
    Separation From Service   shall mean a Participant s voluntary or involuntary severance of employment with the
Company and Participating Employers, except by reason of temporary absence,  provided   that , except for purposes of Section III.B, Separation From Service shall not include death or a transfer to an affiliate or subsidiary of the Company
that is not a Participating Employer; and further  provided , that for purposes of Sections VI.C, VI.D, VI.E and VI.F, a Separation From Service shall not occur until the date that a Participant experiences a  separation from service 
from the Company (and all of the members of the controlled group of the Company within the meaning of Code section 414(b) and (c)), within the meaning of Code section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) and (1) IRS Notice 2005-1 and proposed Treasury Regulation
section 1.409A-1(h), for periods after December 31, 2004 but prior to April 17, 2007; or (2) final Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(h), for periods after April 17, 2007.   
    SIP   shall mean the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Savings and Investment Program, and as amended from time to time.
       SIP Account   shall mean a Participant s separate account, and each sub-account, under the SIP.
       Specified Employee   shall mean a  specified employee  as determined by the Savings Plan Committee
or its designee in accordance with Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i).        Subsequent Deferral Rules   shall mean the
rules set forth in Section VI.D.5 of the Plan that a Participant must satisfy to elect an alternative time and/or form of payment or to modify an existing alternative payment election.   
    Transition Contributions   shall have the meaning set forth for such term in the SIP.   
    Unforeseeable Emergency   shall mean a severe financial hardship to a Participant resulting from (1) an illness or
accident of the Participant or the Participant s spouse, Beneficiary or dependent (as defined in section 152 of the Code, without regard to section 152(b)(1), (b)(2) and (d)(1)(B)), (2) loss of the Participant s property due to
casualty, or (3) such other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant, all as determined in the sole discretion of the Savings Plan Committee. Any determination by
the Savings Plan Committee as to whether a Participant is faced with an Unforeseeable Emergency shall be made in accordance with the requirements of Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(3).   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      4   

Year(s) of Service   shall have the meaning set forth for such term in the
SIP.       II. PURPOSE AND HISTORY OF THE PLAN.       The purpose of this Plan is to provide benefits for certain Employees participating in the SIP whose funded benefits under that plan are or will be limited by application of certain limitations contained
in the Code. The Plan is intended to be an unfunded  excess benefit plan  as that term is defined in Section 3(36) of ERISA to the extent that it provides benefits in excess of the limitations on contributions and benefits imposed by
section 415 of the Code with respect to Participants under the SIP, and a  top hat  plan meeting the requirements of Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), 401(a)(1) and 4021(b)(6) of ERISA to the extent that it provides benefits based on
compensation in excess of the limitation imposed by section 401(a)(17) of the Code on the annual compensation of a Participant that may be taken into account under the SIP. The Plan is not intended to be a plan described in section 401(a) of the
Code. The Plan was previously effective as of January 1, 1991, has been restated from time to time, including in 1996 and in 2007, and has been further amended from time to time since 2007. The Plan is again amended and restated in the
following form effective as of January 1, 2012, except as otherwise specified herein.       III. ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN.
       A.  Eligible Participants  . Each Employee who is a Participant in the Plan as of December 31, 2011 shall
continue to be a Participant in the Plan as of January 1, 2012. Each other Employee who is a participant in the SIP and who is employed by a Participating Employer shall be eligible to participate in this Plan and shall become a Participant in
this Plan upon the earlier of when (1) the allocation of contributions to his or her SIP Account would exceed the limitations on benefits and contributions imposed by section 415 of the Code for a given Plan Year, or (2) amounts of his or
her compensation would be excluded from his Annual Salary determined under the SIP for a given Plan Year by reason of the application of section 401(a)(17) of the Code.       B.  Cessation of Participation  . Participation in the Plan shall terminate upon the Participant s Separation From Service with the Company or other Participating Employer, as applicable,
except, however, that an individual who has a vested Account Balance under the Plan after his or her Separation From Service will continue to be treated as a Participant (other than for purposes of receiving Deferral Credits and Employer Credits
under Section IV) until his or her entire Account Balance has been distributed or forfeited.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      5   

IV. CALCULATION OF BENEFITS.        A.  Credits to Plan Accounts  .      1.  General Rules . The Company
shall establish and maintain a Plan Account in the name of each Participant for the crediting of Deferral and Employer Credits under this Plan.      2.  Rules Applicable to Deferral and Matching Credits .      (a) Deferral
Credits and Matching Credits shall be credited to the Plan Account of each Participant as provided in this Section IV (and in the manner described in Sections IV.B, IV.C, or IV.D.1, as applicable) only for Plan Years in which the Participant has in
effect an irrevocable deferral election under this Plan and in accordance with Section IV.A.2(b), to reduce his or her Annual Salary in exchange for having Deferral Credits credited to a Plan Account under and subject to this Plan.   
  (b) A Participant s deferral election under this Plan for a Plan Year: (i) must be completed no earlier than the start of and
prior to or on the last day of an annual enrollment period established by the Plan Administrator, which annual enrollment period shall end no later than the last day of the Plan Year prior to the Plan Year to which the annual enrollment period
relates; (ii) may be modified or revoked during the annual enrollment period; (iii) will apply only to the Plan Year beginning immediately following the Plan Year in which the annual enrollment period falls, and to subsequent Plan Years
until modified or revoked; (iv) will apply only to Annual Salary for services performed during the Plan Year beginning immediately following the Plan Year in which the annual enrollment period falls, and to subsequent Plan Years until modified
or revoked; (v) will be irrevocable as of the close of business on the last day of the annual enrollment period; (vi) allows the Participant to defer receipt of any percentage of Annual Salary not less than 2% and not more than 25% for
periods on and after January 1, 2013 (20% for periods prior to January 1, 2013), in whole percentages; and (vii) may not be modified or revoked after the start of the Plan Year to which it relates, subject to Sections IV.E and VI.K.
     (c) For purposes of Section IV.A.2(b) and Section IV.A.3, the following actions or inactions will not constitute a deferral
election (or a modification of a prior deferral election) under the Plan even if in accordance with the terms of the Plan, the actions or inactions result in an increase in the amounts deferred under the Plan, provided, that such actions or
inactions do not otherwise affect the time or form of payment under the Plan:   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      6   

(i) A Participant s action or inaction under the SIP with respect to Pre-Tax
Contributions under the SIP, including an adjustment to a deferral election under the SIP, provided that for any given taxable year, the Participant s action or inaction does not result in an increase in the amounts deferred under this Plan and
any other nonqualified deferred compensation plan in which the Participant participates (other than Matching Credits) in excess of the limit with respect to elective deferrals under section 402(g)(1)(A), (B), and (C) in effect for the taxable
year in which such action or inaction occurs; and/or      (ii) A Participant s action or inaction under the SIP with respect
to Pre-Tax Contributions under the SIP and After-Tax Contributions to the SIP by the Participant that affects the amounts that are credited as Matching Credits or other similar contingent benefits under this Plan and any other nonqualified deferred
compensation plan in which the Participant participates, provided that the total of such Matching Credits and other contingent amounts never exceeds 100% of the Matching Contributions that would be provided under the SIP absent any plan-based
restrictions in the SIP that reflect limits on qualified plan contributions under the Code.      Under the terms of the SIP,
adjustments by a Participant after the commencement of a Plan Year of the percentage of his or her Pre-Tax Contributions, or After-Tax Contributions that would result in a modification of the amount deferred under this Plan in excess of the limits
described in Section IV.A.2(c)(i) and (ii), as applicable, are not permitted, and any attempt by the Participant to make such adjustment will not be recognized under this Plan, including without limitation, for purposes of the provisions of Sections
IV.B, IV.C and IV.D, as applicable.      (d) A Participant will be credited with Deferral Credits for a Plan Year under either
Section IV.B or Section IV.C (depending on which limit the Participant exceeds first under the SIP during that Plan Year). To the extent a Participant first meets the requirements for Deferral Credits under both Section IV.B and Section IV.C in the
same payroll period, Deferral Credits for such payroll period and for the rest of such Plan Year shall be provided under Section IV.B only.      (e) Deferral Credits and Matching Credits to a Participant s Plan Account shall be credited on a payroll period basis (at the same time SIP contributions would otherwise be allocated to the
Participant s SIP Account for such payroll period), based on the amount of the Participant s Annual Salary payable for each such payroll period. The Participant s Annual Salary shall be reduced by the amount of Deferral Credits for
any payroll period a Participant meets the requirements for Deferral Credits under Section IV.B. or Section IV.C.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      7   

3.  Special Rule for Newly Eligible Employees .   Notwithstanding anything herein
to the contrary, an Employee who first becomes eligible to participate in the SIP during a calendar year may make a deferral election under the Plan for that calendar year if the Savings Plan Committee or its delegate determines, in its sole
discretion, that such Employee will become eligible to participate in the Plan during that calendar year in accordance with Section III.A. Any election made pursuant to this Section IV.A.3: (a) must be completed no later than 30 days after the
Employee first becomes eligible to participate in the SIP in accordance with Article II of the SIP (the  Eligibility Date  (b) will apply only to the Plan Year during which the Employee first becomes eligible to participate in the
SIP (the  First Plan Year ) and to subsequent Plan Years until modified or revoked; (c) will apply only to Annual Salary for services performed during the First Plan Year and after the election is filed, and during subsequent Plan
Years until modified or revoked; (d) will be irrevocable as of the close of the 30th day after the Eligibility Date and may not be modified or revoked after such date until the next annual enrollment period, subject to Sections IV.E and VI.K;
and (e) allows the Participant to defer receipt of any percentage of Annual Salary not less than 2% and not more than 25% for periods on and after January 1, 2013 (20% for periods prior to January 1, 2013), in whole percentages.
      B.  Code Section 415 Deferral Credits  . The Plan Account of each Participant shall be credited (at the time
specified in Section IV.A.2(e)) with Deferral Credits under this Section IV.B if such Participant (1) meets the requirements of Section IV.A.2 or Section IV.A.3 for a Plan Year and (2) is precluded from making additional Pre-Tax or
After-Tax Contributions to his SIP Account due to the limitations of section 415 of the Code in a given payroll period of a Plan Year. The Deferral Credits credited under this Section IV.B shall equal the percentage of the Participant s Annual
Salary that he elected to defer under the Plan for such Plan Year for the period commencing as of the first payroll period that the Participant is precluded from making any additional contributions to his SIP Account due to the application of
section 415 of the Code, through the last payroll period of the Plan Year. For any payroll period as to which only a portion of the Participant s additional contributions are limited due to the application of section 415 of the Code, the
Deferral Credits for such payroll period shall be prorated based on the portion of the Participant s Pre-Tax or After-Tax Contributions that could not be made to the SIP for the applicable payroll period on account of that limitation.
      C.  Code Section 401(a)(17) Deferral Credits  . The Plan Account of each Participant shall be credited (at
the time specified in Section IV.A.2(e)) with Deferral Credits under this Section IV.C if such Participant (1) meets the requirements of Section IV.A.2 or Section IV.A.3 for a Plan Year and (2) is precluded from making additional Pre-Tax
or After-Tax elective deferrals to his SIP Account because the Participant s Annual Salary exceeds the limitations of section   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      8   

401(a)(17) of the Code in a given payroll period of a Plan Year. The Deferral Credits credited under this Section IV.C shall equal the percentage of the Participant s Annual Salary that he
elected to defer under the Plan for such Plan Year for the period commencing as of the first payroll period that the Participant s additional contributions to his SIP Account are limited due to the application of section 401(a)(17) of the Code,
through the last payroll period of the Plan Year. For any payroll period where only a portion of the Participant s additional contributions are limited due to the application of section 401(a)(17) of the Code, the Deferral Credits for such
payroll period shall be prorated based on the portion of the Participant s Annual Salary that could not be taken into account for purposes of contributions to the SIP Account.   
   D.  Employer Credits  .      1.  Matching Credits   . A Plan Account credited with Deferral Credits for a Plan Year under Section IV.B or Section IV.C shall also be credited (at the time specified in Section IV.A.2(e)) with
Matching Credits in an amount equal to the amount of Matching Contributions, if any, that would have been contributed to the SIP on such Participant s behalf for such Plan Year (without regard to the limitations imposed under section 415 or
401(a)(17) of the Code) if the Deferral Credits determined under Section IV.B and/or Section IV.C, as the case may be, had been contributed to the SIP.      2.  Non-Elective Credits   . The Plan Account of each Participant shall also be credited with an amount of Non-Elective Credits equal to the amount of Additional Annual Contributions and/or
Transition Contributions that would have been credited to the SIP on such Participant s behalf for a Plan Year (without regard to the limitations imposed under section 415 or 401(a)(17) of the Code) less the amount of Additional Annual
Contributions and/or Transition Contributions actually contributed to the SIP for such Plan Year. Non-Elective Credits shall be credited to a Participant s Plan Account at the same time that Non-Elective Contributions are made to the SIP.
      E.  Cancellation of Deferrals  . A Participant may petition the Savings Plan Committee or its designee to cancel
his deferrals under this Plan during any period of time that the Participant establishes to the satisfaction of the Savings Plan Committee that he is facing an Unforeseeable Emergency. If the petition for cancellation is approved, such cancellation
shall take effect as of the first payroll period following the date of approval. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant s deferrals under the Plan shall be automatically cancelled during a Plan Year if the Participant applies for and
receives a hardship withdrawal under the SIP in accordance with Treasury Regulation section 1.401(k)-1(d)(3), but only to the extent that the Participant s elective deferrals under the SIP are suspended on
  
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      9   

account of such hardship withdrawal. Such cancellation shall take effect as soon as administratively practicable following the date the hardship withdrawal is made. If deferrals by a Participant
have been cancelled during a Plan Year due to an Unforeseeable Emergency or on account of his receiving a hardship withdrawal under the SIP, the Participant will not be eligible to make any further deferrals in respect of that Plan Year. The
Participant may be eligible to elect to make deferrals for subsequent Plan Years provided that such elections are made prior to the Plan Year with respect to which such deferral relates. A Participant s deferral election for any Plan Year in
which a suspension of the Participant s deferrals under the SIP remains in effect due to receipt of a hardship withdrawal in the previous year shall not take effect until the suspension period under the SIP ends. If a Participant s
Deferral Credits are cancelled or delayed pursuant to this Section E, no Matching Credits will be credited to such Participant s Plan Account for any payroll period to which such cancellation or delay applies.   
   F.  Investment Adjustments to Plan Accounts  . While a Participant s Plan Account does not represent the
Participant s ownership of, or ownership interest in, any particular assets, the amounts credited to the Participant s Plan Account shall be adjusted as of the close of each business day, or at such other times as may be determined by the
Savings Plan Committee, to reflect the performance of the investment funds in which such credited amounts are hypothetically deemed invested in accordance with this Section IV.F. The investment funds in which a Participant s Plan Account
credits are hypothetically deemed invested shall be determined as follows:      1. Prior to October 1, 1994, each Participant
was given the opportunity to elect to have credits to his Plan Account made on or after October 1, 1994 deemed to be invested in any one or a combination of the investment funds being offered under the SIP on and after October 1, 1994,
(other than the Company Stock Fund) in 1% increments. In the event a Participant failed to make such an election, all such credits were deemed to be invested in the investment funds as determined by the Savings Plan Committee to be most closely
resembling the investment funds the Participant had elected with respect to the credits to his Plan Account made prior to October 1, 1994;  provided ,  however , that where a Participant s existing investment directions had
allocated one-third (33 1/3%) of his Plan Account to each of the three investment funds in existence on September 30, 1994 (other than the Company Stock Fund), the equivalent allocation was deemed to be 33%, 33% and 34%, with 34% allocated to
the least volatile investment fund (as determined by the Savings Plan Committee) which most closely resembles the least volatile investment fund which the Participant had elected prior to October 1, 1994.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      10   

2. Effective as of the close of business on September 30, 1994 (or as soon as
practicable thereafter), each Participant s Plan Account was adjusted as if the credits to his Plan Account representing a type of investment under the Plan was reduced to cash (other than any credits representing a deemed investment in the
Fixed Income Fund) and reinvested in such investment fund or funds being offered on and after October 1, 1994 under the SIP (other than the Company Stock Fund) as determined by the Savings Plan Committee to most closely resemble the respective
investment fund in which such credits were deemed invested prior to October 1, 1994.      3. On and after October 1,
1994, on any business day the Participant may, pursuant to telephonic notification with the Administrative Agent, (a) elect to have Plan Account credits deemed to be invested, in 1% increments, among such funds established under the SIP, other
than the Company Stock Fund, effective as of the first day of the next payroll period (or as soon as practicable thereafter) and (b) elect that the credits to his Plan Account under this Section IV representing any type of investment under the
Plan be deemed to be reduced to cash (in 1% increments) and that such deemed cash be invested in such other funds which the Participant shall designate in such election, effective as of the next business day (or as soon as practicable thereafter).
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no election under paragraph (b) above with respect to credits accrued prior to October 1, 1994 was accepted during the period beginning on September 27, 1994 and ending on or about November 30, 1994
(or as soon as practicable thereafter).      4. Any investment election given by a Participant shall continue in effect until
changed by the Participant. To the extent a Participant makes no election, all such credits shall be deemed to have been invested in the default investment fund established under the SIP.   
  5. For purposes of this Plan,  telephonic notification  shall include any form of communication acceptable to the
Administrative Agent, including, telephone, telegraph, satellite or other wireless communication. A  business day  shall mean any day the New York Stock Exchange is open for business.   
   V. VESTING.       A
Participant shall at all times be 100% vested in his Deferral Credits and BEP-Retirement Plan Credits (and any Investment Adjustments attributable thereto). A Participant shall become vested in Employer Credits (and any Investment Adjustments
attributable thereto) at the same time the corresponding Matching Contributions, Additional Annual Contributions and Transition Contributions allocated to the Participant s SIP Account become vested under the SIP (or upon becoming a Participant
in the Plan, if the Participant s Matching Contributions, Additional Annual Contributions and/or Transition Contributions are already vested under the SIP at such time).   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      11   

VI. TIME AND FORM OF PAYMENT OF ACCOUNT BALANCE.    
   A.  Pre-April 1, 1995 Separation From Service  . In the case of a Participant whose Separation From Service occurs prior
to April 1, 1995, the vested Account Balance shall be payable to the Participant (or his Beneficiary) at the same time and in the same form as the Participant s benefit under the SIP is payable;  provided ,  however , that such
form of distribution is either a lump sum payment or annual installments over a period of two to 15 years consisting of an amount equal to his vested Account Balance divided by the number of installments then remaining (including the installment in
question) each year, payable commencing as of the month designated under the SIP for commencement of such payment and as of the same month in each year thereafter until payment of all such installments are made (the  Installment Method ).
If such form of distribution under the SIP is not one of these two forms, the distribution to such Participant (or his Beneficiary) shall be a cash lump sum payment, unless he irrevocably elects, in writing, to receive such distribution at a later
date or under the Installment Method, which election must be made prior to his Separation From Service, and in the Plan Year prior to, but not less than 90 days prior to, the date such lump sum is to be paid or such installments are to commence.
      B.  Separation From Service on or After April 1, 1995 and Prior to January 1, 2005  . In the case of a
Participant whose Separation from Service occurs on or after April 1, 1995 and prior to January 1, 2005, the vested Account Balance shall be payable to the Participant (or his Beneficiary) as follows:   
  1. A Participant who, as of the date of Separation From Service, is not Retirement Eligible or is not Rule of 70 Eligible, shall be paid
in the form of a cash lump sum payment payable as soon as practicable following such Separation From Service.      2. A
Participant who, as of the date of Separation From Service, is Retirement Eligible or Rule of 70 Eligible shall be paid in the form of a cash lump sum payment as soon as practicable following such Separation From Service unless, in any Plan Year
prior to the Participant s Separation From Service, such Participant irrevocably elected, in writing, in accordance with the Subsequent Deferral Rules, to receive such distribution:   
  (a) at a later date in a cash lump sum,      (b) in the Installment Method or   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      12   

(c) effective December 14, 2000, in annual installments based on the
Participant s life expectancy or joint life expectancies of the Participant and his Beneficiary commencing on April 1 of the year following the later of (i) the year in which the Participant reaches age 70-1/2 or (ii) the year in
which the Participant has a Separation From Service. Such installments shall continue until the earlier of ( x ) the vested Account Balance having no more value or ( y ) the Participant s death, upon which time the remaining
Account Balance would continue to be paid in such installments to the Participant s designated Beneficiary. Any final Account Balance remaining at the later of the death of the Participant or the Participant s designated Beneficiary shall
be paid in a lump sum to the designated Beneficiary s estate in accordance with Section VI.G.      Payments made pursuant to an election
under either paragraph (a) or (b), above, must commence no later than the later of (i) the year in which the Participant reaches age 70-1/2 or (ii) the year in which the Participant has a Separation From Service.   
  3. Subject to the Subsequent Deferral Rules, effective December 14, 2000, a Participant at the E-09 grade level or above who is
Retirement Eligible or Rule of 70 Eligible may elect prior to his Separation From Service (a) to receive annual installments beginning no later than April 1 of the year following the later of (i) the year such Participant reaches age
70-1/2 or (ii) the year in which the Participant has a Separation From Service, and (b) an amount for the first year installment which must be no less than five percent of such Participant s vested Account Balance as of the payment
commencement date. Each installment thereafter would be adjusted for the cost of living increase under the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W) that is used to adjust benefits paid to Social Security beneficiaries
and such installments shall continue until the earlier of ( x ) the vested Account Balance having no more value or ( y ) the Participant s death, upon which time the remaining Account Balance would continue to be paid in
such installments to the Participant s spouse (if the Participant had so elected). Any final Account Balance remaining at the later of the death of the Participant or the Participant s spouse, if applicable, shall be paid in a lump sum to
the Participant s designated Beneficiary.      4.  Separation From Service During 2004 . Notwithstanding anything in
Section VI.B.2 to the contrary, a Participant who has a Separation From Service during 2004 and who, at the time of such Separation From Service is Retirement Eligible or Rule of 70 Eligible, may modify or revoke a previous election made pursuant to
Section VI.B.2,  provided  such modification or revocation occurs no later than the last day of the calendar year prior to his Separation From Service and satisfies the Subsequent Deferral Rules.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      13   

C.  Separation From Service on or After January 1, 2005 and Prior to
January 1, 2007  . In the case of a Participant whose Separation From Service occurs on or after January 1, 2005 and prior to January 1, 2007, the vested Account Balance shall be payable to the Participant (or his Beneficiary)
in the default form of payment set forth in Section VI.C.1 herein, unless a timely election for an alternative form of payment is made in accordance with Section VI.C.2 herein.   
  1.  Default Form of Payment  .  Subject to Section VI.C.3(b) below, a Participant who, as of the date of his Separation From
Service, is either (a) not Retirement Eligible, (b) not Rule of 70 Eligible or (c) Retirement Eligible or Rule of 70 Eligible but does not make a timely election under Section VI.C.2 herein, shall receive his vested Account Balance,
subject to Section VI.F herein, in a cash lump sum payment within 60 days following the Participant s Separation From Service (referred to as the  Section VI.C Default Form of Payment ).   
  2.  Alternative Forms of Payment  .  Subject to the Subsequent Deferral Rules, a Participant who, as of the date of his
Separation From Service, is either Retirement Eligible or is Rule of 70 Eligible, shall be permitted to elect payment under one or more of the following forms of payment:      (a) With respect to the portion of such Participant s Account Balance credited and vested prior to January 1, 2005: (i) in a cash lump sum payment at a deferred date; (ii) in annual
installments of two to 15 years; or (iii) in annual installments based on the Participant s life expectancy or the joint life expectancies of the Participant and his Beneficiary, commencing April 1 of the year following the later of
(1) the year in which the Participant reaches age 70-1/2 or (2) the year in which the Participant has a Separation From Service. Payments made pursuant to an election under either clause (i) or (ii) of this paragraph
(a) must commence no later than the later of ( x ) the year in which the Participant reaches age 70-1/2 or ( y ) the year in which the Participant has a Separation From Service.   
  (b) With respect to the portion of such Participant s Account Balance credited or vested on or after January 1, 2005:
(i) in a cash lump sum payment at a deferred date; or (ii) in annual installments of two to 15 years. A Participant who makes an alternative payment election pursuant to this Section VI.C.2(b) must also elect when payments will commence in
accordance with the Subsequent Deferral Rules.      3.  Special Provisions Relating to Rule of 70 Eligibility .   
  (a)  In General . The ability to elect an alternative form of payment under this Section C is limited to Participants who, as of
their Separation From Service, are Retirement Eligible or Rule of 70 Eligible. To be Rule of 70 Eligible, a Participant must, among other things, satisfy the Release Requirements   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      14   

as defined under the definition of Rule of 70 Eligible. Under certain circumstances, the Release Requirements could enable a Participant to change the form and/or time of payment in violation of
Code section 409A. For example, if a Participant has an election to receive benefits in installments and that election applies if she is Rule of 70 Eligible upon Separation From Service (but not otherwise), she could effectively revoke that election
at Separation From Service and receive payment in the default form of payment by intentionally not satisfying the Release Requirements. Because the Company believes the foregoing would violate Code section 409A, the Company has adopted the special
provisions relating to Rule of 70 Eligibility stated herein that apply to Participants who have a Separation from Service on or after January 1, 2005.      (b)  Form of Payment . In recognition of paragraph (a), above, and notwithstanding provisions to the contrary, if (i) a Participant is not Rule of 70 Eligible solely because the Participant
failed to satisfy the Release Requirements, (ii) the Participant properly elected an alternative form of payment, and (iii) the elected alternative form of payment applies if the Participant is Rule of 70 Eligible upon Separation From
Service, then the Participant s vested Account Balance shall be paid in the alternative form elected by the Participant in accordance with Section VI.C.2 and not in the Section VI.C Default Form of Payment.   
   D.  Separation From Service After 2006  . In the case of a Participant whose Separation From Service occurs on or after
January 1, 2007, the vested Account Balance shall be payable to the Participant in the default form of payment set forth in Section VI.D.1 herein, unless a timely election for an alternative form of payment is made in accordance with Section
VI.D.2 herein.      1.  Default Form of Payment . Subject to Section VI.D.3(a), below, a Participant who, as of the date his
Separation From Service occurs, either (a) is not Retirement Eligible, (b) is not Rule of 70 Eligible, or (c) is Retirement Eligible or Rule of 70 Eligible but does not make a timely election pursuant to Section VI.D.2. herein, shall
receive his vested Account Balance, subject to Section VI.D.3(b) and Section VI.F herein, in a cash lump sum payment within 60 days following such Participant s Separation From Service (referred to as the  Section VI.D Default Form of
Payment ).      2.  Alternative Form of Payment .   
  (a) Subject to the Subsequent Deferral Rules, a Participant who, as of the date his Separation From Service occurs, is either Retirement
Eligible or Rule of 70 Eligible shall be permitted to elect to receive his entire vested Account Balance at a deferred date (as set forth below). A Participant who elects to receive his Account Balance in accordance with this Section VI.D.2(a) must
also elect (i) when payments will commence, and (ii) whether the payment will be made   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      15   

in a lump sum or in annual installments of two to 15 years, each consisting of an amount equal to his vested Account Balance divided by the number of installments then remaining (including the
installment in question), payable commencing as of the month designated by the Participant and as of the same month each year thereafter until payment of all installments are made. A Participant electing the alternative form of payment under this
Section VI.D.2(a) may further modify such election, provided that the subsequent election complies with this Section VI.D.2(a) and the Subsequent Deferral Rules.      3.  Special Provisions Relating to Rule of 70 Eligibility/Involuntary Termination .      (a)  Form of Payment . In recognition of Section VI.C.3(a), above, and notwithstanding provisions to the contrary, if (i) a Participant is not Rule of 70 Eligible solely because the Participant
failed to satisfy the Release Requirements, and (ii) the Participant properly elected an alternative form of payment, and (iii) the elected alternative form of payment applies if the Participant is Rule of 70 Eligible upon Separation From
Service, then the Participant s vested Account Balance shall be paid in the alternative form elected by the Participant pursuant to Section VI.D.2(a) and not in the Section VI.D Default Form of Payment.   
  (b)  Contingent Non-Elective Credits . On and after January 1, 2010, the Plan Account of a Participant who has an involuntary
termination of employment may be credited with an additional Non-Elective Credit in the year after his Separation From Service if certain conditions set forth in the SIP are satisfied, including that the Participant sign and not revoke a release of
claims. If this happens, the additional Non-Elective Credit will be paid as follows:      (i) If the Participant has not elected
to defer payment of the Participant s post-409A Account Balance (as defined in Section VI.D.4, below) to a date later than the date on which such Non-Elective Credits are credited, the additional Account Balance attributable to such
Non-Elective Credits shall be paid to the Participant on February 1 of the year following the year in which the Participant s Separation From Service occurs, subject to the grace period rule set forth at Section VIII.G.3.   
  (ii) If the Participant elected to defer payment of the Participant s post-409A Account Balance to a date later than the date on
which such Non-Elective Credits are credited, the additional Account Balance attributable to such Non-Elective Credits shall be paid at the same time and in the same form as the balance of the Participant s post-409A Account Balance.
     In no event will the time or form of payment of a Participant s Account Balance as of Separation From Service be modified due to the
crediting of any additional Non-Elective Credits.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      16   

4.  Prior Elections .   
  (a) The Company determined to preserve certain benefits, rights, and features of the Plan as in effect prior to enactment of Code
section 409A, that is, to grandfather Account Balances to the extent earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005. In addition, during the 2005 and 2006 Plan Years, Participants were allowed to make separate elections as to the time or form of
payment of Account Balances that were credited and vested prior to 2005 ( pre-409A Account Balance ) and as to Account Balances credited and vested after 2004 ( post-409A Account Balance ) (referred to as  split
elections ). Effective as of January 1, 2007, split elections are no longer permitted but the Company has intended to preserve any elections made prior to 2005, existing split elections and the grandfathered status of the pre-409A Account
Balances that remain subject to these grandfathered elections. Thus, the Company has administered the Plan consistent with such intent. However, the Company also has permitted and desires to continue permitting Participants with these grandfathered
elections to make new payment elections in compliance with Code section 409A. Thus, the Company has adopted the rules set forth in this subsection 4.      (b) The following rules apply to a Participant (i) whose Separation From Service occurs on or after January 1, 2007, and (ii) who upon Separation From Service is either Retirement Eligible
or Rule of 70 Eligible (disregarding the Release Requirements) and (iii) who made an alternative payment election under this Plan prior to January 1, 2007:      (i) The Participant s pre-2007 election shall continue to apply until the Participant makes a new election that is permitted under the Plan.   
  (ii) If the Participant (1) made an election prior to January 1, 2005, and (2) did not make an election between
January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2006, then ( x ) the pre-2005 election shall continue to apply with respect to the pre-409A Account Balance, and ( y ) the default form of payment shall apply to the post-409A Account
Balance subject to a new election, in which case subparagraph (iv), below, shall apply.      (iii) If the Participant
(1) made a split election, and (2) has not made a subsequent election, then the split election shall continue to apply subject to a new election, in which case subparagraph (iv), below, shall apply.   
  (iv) If the Participant makes a new election after 2006, then: (1) the Plan shall treat all amounts credited and vested under the
Plan (including any BEP-Retirement Plan Credits) as a post-409A Account Balance, and (2) the new election and any subsequent election as to the time and/or form of payment shall apply to the Participant s entire Account Balance.
  
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      17   

The tables attached to the Plan in Exhibit B demonstrate the manner in which the requirements of this
Section VI.D.4 and the Subsequent Deferral Rules apply to a Participant described in this paragraph (b).      5.  Subsequent
Deferral Rules . This Section VI.D.5 sets forth rules that a Participant must satisfy to elect an alternative time and/or form of payment or to modify an existing alternative payment election under various provisions of the Plan.   
  (a) A Participant who has a Separation From Service on or after April 1, 1995 and prior to January 1, 2005 must make any
election that is subject to the Subsequent Deferral Rules not less than 90 days prior to such Participant s Separation From Service.      (b) With respect to a Participant who has a Separation From Service on or after January 1, 2005 and prior to January 1, 2007, any election that is subject to the Subsequent Deferral Rules must
satisfy the following:      (i) Such election must be made no later than 12 months prior to the date of such Participant s
Separation From Service.      (ii) With respect to the portion of such Participant s Account Balance credited or vested on
or after January 1, 2005, payments cannot commence earlier than five years following such Participant s Separation From Service.      (c) With respect to a Participant who has a Separation From Service on or after January 1, 2007, any election that is subject to the Subsequent Deferral Rules must satisfy the following:   
  (i) If the Participant has in effect a pre-2005 payment election or a split election, any further modification will override the
existing election and the Participant s entire Account Balance will be treated as a post-409A Account Balance.      (ii)
Such election must be made no later than 12 months prior to the date of such Participant s Separation From Service.   
  (iii) Such election will not be valid and effective until 12 months after it is received by the Plan Administrator.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      18   

(iv) Such election must provide for a payment date that is at least five years later than
the date that (1) payment otherwise would have been made or (2) in the case of installment payments, which shall constitute a single form of payment, the date the first installment payment was scheduled to be made, in either case under the
default payment terms or prior payment election.      (v) For elections made on or after January 1, 2012, the payment date
or payment commencement date elected shall be no later than ten years following the Participant s Separation From Service. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant who elected prior to January 1, 2012 to defer payment of his post-409A
Account Balance to six years after Separation From Service may make a single subsequent election for payment to be made or commence eleven years following such Participant s Separation From Service.   
  6.  BEP-Retirement Plan Credits .      (a)  Background . The Company determined to preserve certain benefits, rights, and features of the BEP-Retirement Plan as in effect prior to Code section 409A, that is, to grandfather benefits under
that plan to the extent accrued and vested prior to January 1, 2005. In addition, during the 2005 and 2006 Plan Years, Participants were allowed to make split elections under the BEP-Retirement Plan as to benefits accrued and vested under that
plan prior to 2005 ( pre-409A BEP-Retirement Plan Benefits ) and as to benefits accrued and vested after 2004 ( post-409A BEP-Retirement Plan Benefits ). Effective as of January 1, 2007, split elections are no longer
permitted under the BEP-Retirement Plan. The Company has permitted and desires to continue permitting Participants with pre-2005 or split elections under the BEP-Retirement Plan to make new distribution elections. The only alternative distribution
method available under the BEP-Retirement Plan with respect to an election made after 2006 is a credit to this Plan. The Subsequent Deferral Rules also apply to changes in the time and/or form of payment of post-409A BEP-Retirement Plan Benefits. In
some cases, a payment election in effect under this Plan will satisfy those rules with respect to BEP-Retirement Plan Credits and in other cases a new election under this Plan will be required. The rules set forth in this subsection 6 are intended
to coordinate transfers from the BEP-Retirement Plan with payment elections under this Plan in a way that complies with Code section 409A and thus apply when a Participant elects to transfer benefits from the BEP-Retirement Plan to this Plan.
     (b)  Rules .      (i) A Participant may not transfer back to the BEP-Retirement Plan any amount credited from the BEP-Retirement Plan to this Plan pursuant to an election made on or after January 1, 2005.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      19   

(ii) If a Participant made an alternative payment election under this Plan with respect to
his post-409A Account Balance that would satisfy the Subsequent Deferral Rules (in other words, would result in a  permitted landing place ) with respect to his BEP-Retirement Plan Credits, then (1) the amounts transferred will be
paid at the same time and in the same form as his post-409A Account Balance and (2) any election made with respect to the Participant s pre-409A Account Balance will separately remain in effect, unless and until the Participant makes a
subsequent election. For the avoidance of doubt, a Participant described in this clause (ii) may, at the time he makes an election to have amounts credited from the BEP-Retirement Plan to this Plan, make a new election under and in accordance
with the terms of this Plan so that the transfer results in a permitted landing place with respect to his entire Account Balance. In that case, his entire Account Balance will then be treated as a post-409A Account Balance.   
  (iii) If a Participant has not made an alternative payment election under this Plan with respect to his post-409A Account Balance that
would result in a permitted landing place for his BEP-Retirement Plan Credits, then the Participant must, at the same time as such election is made under the BEP-Retirement Plan, make an election under this Plan for a permissible time and form of
payment that results in a permitted landing place with respect to his entire Account Balance. If a new election is required under this clause (iii), the Participant s entire Account Balance will then be treated as a post-409 Account Balance.
     (iv) A Participant who makes any election described in this Section VI.D.6 may further modify such election only if the
subsequent election is (1) for a time and form of payment permitted under the Plan and (2) satisfies the Subsequent Deferral Rules with respect to the Participant s entire Account Balance.   
   E.  De Minimis Lump Sum  . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or payment election of a Participant to the contrary:
     1. If the value of the vested Account Balance of a Participant whose Separation From Service occurs on or after April 1,
1995 and prior to January 1, 2006 is $15,000 or less, such vested Account Balance shall be paid to or in respect of the Participant in a single lump sum on the first day of the month following such Participant s Separation From Service,
and      2. If the value of the vested Account Balance of a Participant whose Separation From Service occurs on or after
January 1, 2006 is less than $10,000, such vested Account Balance shall be paid to or in respect of the Participant in a single lump sum on the first day of the month following such Participant s Separation From Service, provided, however,
that no payment shall be made under this Section VI.E unless such payment results in the termination and   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      20   

liquidation of the entirety of the Participant s interest under the Plan, including all agreements, methods, programs, or other arrangements with respect to which deferrals of compensation
are treated as having been deferred under a single nonqualified deferred compensation plan under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(c)(2).       F.  Specified Employees  . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or payment election of a Participant to the contrary, if a Participant is a Specified Employee at his Separation From
Service, payment of his Account Balance shall occur no earlier than the date that is six months after the Participant s Separation From Service (unless such Participant dies, in which event the vested Account Balance shall be payable in
accordance with Section VI.G hereof); except, however, that (1) if such Specified Employee s Separation From Service occurs prior to January 1, 2007, then only the Participant s post-409 Account Balance shall be subject to such
six-month payment delay, and (2) if such Specified Employee s Separation From Service occurs after December 31, 2006 and the Specified Employee has in effect a payment election made prior to January 1, 2007, as documented in
Exhibit B to the Plan, then the Participant s pre-409A Account Balance shall be paid in accordance with such election without regard to this Section VI.F. Any portion of the vested Account Balance that would otherwise be paid to a Specified
Employee prior to the end of such six-month period shall be paid on the last day of the payroll period that begins coincident with or next following the six-month anniversary of the Participant s Separation From Service or as soon as reasonably
practicable after that date in accordance with the grace period rule set forth at Section VIII.G.3.       G.  Payment of
Account Balances in the Event of the Participant s Death .  A Participant may designate a Beneficiary to receive payment of all or part of the value of his or her vested Account Balance in the event of his or her death, if such
Beneficiary shall be living at the time of his or her death, and such designation may be changed or revoked. Any such designation (including any designation that replaces a previous designation) shall be made on a form to be provided for this
purpose or such other means as the Company shall determine and communicate to Participants from time to time, shall be signed by the Participant (including by means of electronic signature, if applicable), and shall be valid only if delivered to his
Participating Employer (or received in electronic form, if applicable), prior to his or her death. In the event of the death of the Participant prior to the Participant s being Retirement Eligible or Rule of 70 Eligible, the value of his or her
vested Account Balance with respect to which a designation of Beneficiary has been made (to the extent it is valid and enforceable under applicable law) shall be distributed to the surviving designated Beneficiary in a cash lump sum payment on the
first day of the year following the year in which the Participant dies, subject to the grace period rule set forth at Section VIII.G.3. In the event of the death of the Participant   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      21   

after the Participant is Retirement Eligible (whether or not employed by the Company on the date of death) or Rule of 70 Eligible (disregarding the Release Requirements), the value of his or her
vested Account Balance with respect to which a designation of Beneficiary has been made (to the extent it is valid and enforceable under applicable law) shall be distributed to the surviving designated Beneficiary at the same time and in the same
form of payment that would have been made to the Participant had he survived. In the event of the Beneficiary s death after payments have commenced to the Beneficiary, but prior to the complete distribution of the Participant s vested
Account Balance, the remaining value of the Participant s Account Balance shall be distributed to the Beneficiary s estate in a cash lump sum payment on the first day of the year following the year in which the Beneficiary dies, subject to
the grace period rule set forth at Section VIII.G.3. If the Participant has not designated a Beneficiary, or if no designated Beneficiary shall be living at the time of the Participant s death, and the Participant has designated a Beneficiary
under the SIP, such designation shall be deemed a designation for purposes of this Plan. If the Participant has not designated a Beneficiary under this Plan or the SIP, or if no Beneficiary designated under this Plan or the SIP shall be living at
the time of the Participant s death, then the Participant s vested Account Balance shall be distributed to the same individuals in the same proportions as the Participant s benefit under the SIP is distributed pursuant to the terms of
the SIP. Payment to one or more of such persons shall completely discharge the Plan with respect to the amount so paid and there will be no duty to verify the validity of such payment under applicable laws and regulations regarding community
property, legal conjugal partnership, inheritance and decedent s estates. If a question arises as to the legality, existence or identity of anyone entitled to receive a benefit payment as aforesaid, or if a dispute arises with respect to any
such payment, then, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Savings Plan Committee, in its sole discretion, may distribute such payment to the Participant s estate without liability for any tax or other consequences that might flow therefrom or may
take such other action as the Savings Plan Committee deems to be appropriate.       H.  Distribution for Unforeseeable
Emergency  . If a Participant shall establish to the satisfaction of the Savings Plan Committee or its designee in accordance with principles and procedures established by the Savings Plan Committee which are applicable to all persons
similarly situated that a withdrawal to be made by him pursuant to this Section VI.H is to be made by reason of an Unforeseeable Emergency, the Participating Employer shall distribute to the Participant the amount reasonably necessary to meet such
Unforeseeable Emergency but not more than the value of his vested Account Balance.       I.  Other Permissible Payment
Events  . All or a portion of the value of the vested Account Balance may be paid if and to the extent reasonably necessary to permit the Participant to avoid the violation of an applicable Federal, state, local or foreign ethics law or
conflicts of interest law within the meaning of Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(iii)(B).   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      22   

J.  No Post-Separation Elections  . Notwithstanding anything herein to the
contrary, a Participant may not make any election(s) regarding the time and form of the payment of the value of his or her vested Account Balance subsequent to the occurrence of his Separation From Service. For the avoidance of doubt, a distribution
for Unforeseeable Emergency pursuant to Section VI.H hereof shall not be considered an election regarding the time and form of payment for purposes of Section VI.J.       K.  Prohibition on Acceleration of Payments  .      1.  In
general  .  Except as provided in Section VI.K.3, the Plan and the Plan Administrator shall not permit the acceleration of the time or schedule of any payment or amount scheduled to be paid pursuant to the terms of the Plan, and shall not
make any such accelerated payment. For purposes of determining whether a payment of deferred compensation has been made, Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(f) shall apply. For purposes of this Section VI.K, an impermissible acceleration does not
occur if payment is made in accordance with Plan provisions or an election as to the time and form of payment in effect at the time of initial deferral (or added in accordance with the rules applicable to subsequent deferral elections under Treasury
Regulation section 1.409A 2(b)) pursuant to which payment is required to be made on an accelerated schedule as a result of an intervening event that is an event described in Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(a)(1) (separation from service),
(2) (Participant becoming disabled), (3) (Participant s death), (5) (change in control), or (6) (unforeseeable emergency). Additionally, it is not an acceleration of the time or schedule of payment of a deferral of
compensation if a Participating Employer waives or accelerates the satisfaction of a condition constituting a substantial risk of forfeiture applicable to such deferral of compensation, provided that the requirements of Code section 409A (including
the requirement that the payment be made upon a permissible payment event) are otherwise satisfied with respect to such deferral of compensation.      2.  Beneficiaries  .  The rules of this Section VI.K shall apply to elections by beneficiaries with respect to the time and form of payment, as well as elections by Participants with respect to
the time and form of payment to beneficiaries. An election to change the identity of a beneficiary shall not constitute an acceleration of a payment merely because the election changes the identity of the recipient of the payment, if the time and
form of the payment is not otherwise changed.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      23   

3.  Exceptions .   
  (a)  In general . Except as otherwise expressly provided in provisions of the Plan (other than this Section VI.K.), acceleration is
permitted in accordance with paragraphs VI.K.3(b) through (j) of this section. In each instance below the distribution may be made in the discretion of the Compensation Committee or its delegate, acting strictly on behalf of the Company and
applying such exceptions in accordance with and only to the extent permitted by Code section 409A and any regulations thereunder. In no event shall a Participant have any discretion with respect to whether such distribution is made.   
  (b)  Conflicts of interest .      (i) The Plan shall accelerate the time of a payment under the Plan, to the extent that the Compensation Committee determines it necessary for any Federal officer or employee in the executive branch to
comply with an ethics agreement with the Federal government.      (ii) The Plan shall accelerate the time or schedule of a
payment under the Plan, to the extent that the Compensation Committee determines it reasonably necessary, within the meaning of Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(iii), to avoid the violation of an applicable Federal, state, local, or
foreign ethics law or conflicts of interest law (including where such payment is reasonably necessary to permit the Participant to participate in activities in the normal course of his or her position in which the Participant would otherwise not be
able to participate under an applicable rule).      (c)  Limited cashouts . The Plan shall pay mandatory lump sum payments
in accordance with, and subject to the provisions of, Section VI.E.      (d)  Payment of employment taxes . The Compensation
Committee may accelerate the time or schedule of a payment, to pay the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax imposed under Code sections 3101, 3121(a), and 3121(v)(2), or the Railroad Retirement Act tax imposed under Code sections 3201,
3211, 3231(e)(1), and 3231(e)(8), where applicable, on compensation deferred under the plan (the FICA or RRTA amount). Additionally, the Compensation Committee may accelerate the time or schedule of a payment to pay the income tax at source on wages
imposed under Code section 3401 or the corresponding withholding provisions of applicable state, local, or foreign tax laws as a result of the payment of the FICA or RRTA amount, and to pay the additional income tax at source on wages attributable
to the pyramiding Code section 3401 wages and taxes. However, the total payment under this acceleration provision must not exceed the aggregate of the FICA or RRTA amount, and the income tax withholding related to such FICA or RRTA amount.
  
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      24   

(e)  Payment upon income inclusion under section 409A . The Compensation Committee may
accelerate the time or schedule of a payment at any time the Plan fails to meet the requirements of Code section 409A and the final Treasury Regulations issued under Code section 409A, provided such payment may not exceed the amount required to be
included in income as a result of the failure to comply with the requirements of Code section 409A and the regulations thereunder.      (f)  Cancellation of deferrals following an unforeseeable emergency or hardship distribution . Cancellation of deferrals in accordance with, and subject to the provisions of, Section IV.E is
permitted.      (g)  Plan terminations and liquidations . Payment under the Plan may be made where the acceleration of the
payment is made pursuant to a termination and liquidation of the Plan (including a plan termination described in Section VIII.A) provided such termination or liquidation and the payment pursuant thereto satisfies the requirements of Treasury
Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix)(A), (B) or (C).      (h)  Payment of state, local, or foreign taxes . The
Compensation Committee may accelerate the time and form of a payment to reflect payment of state, local, or foreign tax obligations arising from participation in the Plan that apply to an amount deferred under the Plan before the amount is paid or
made available to the Participant (the state, local, or foreign tax amount). Such payment may not exceed the amount of such taxes due as a result of participation in the Plan. Such payment may be made by distributions to the Participant in the form
of withholding pursuant to provisions of applicable state, local, or foreign law or by distribution directly to the Participant. The total payment under this acceleration provision shall not exceed the aggregate of the state, local, and foreign tax
amount, and the income tax withholding related to such state, local, and foreign tax amount.      (i)  Certain offsets . The
Compensation Committee may accelerate the time or schedule of a payment as satisfaction of a debt of the Participant to the Company or his or her Participating Employer, provided such debt is incurred in the ordinary course of the employment
relationship, the entire amount of reduction in any year does not exceed $5,000, and the reduction is made at the same time and in the same amount as the debt otherwise would have been due and collected from the Participant.   
  (j)  Bona fide disputes as to a right to a payment . The Compensation Committee may accelerate the time or schedule of one or more
payments where such payments occur as part of a settlement between the Participant and the Company or Participating Employer of an arm s length, bona fide dispute as to the Participant s right to the deferred amount. Discretion to
  
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      25   

accelerate payments, other than due to an arm s length settlement of a bona fide dispute as to the Participant s right to the deferred amount, is not permitted under this paragraph.
Whether a payment qualifies for the exception under this paragraph is based on all relevant facts and circumstances. A payment will be presumed not to meet this exception unless the payment is subject to a substantial reduction in the value of the
payment made in relation to the amount that would have been payable had there been no dispute as to the Participant s right to the payment. For this purpose, a reduction that is less than 25% of the present value of the deferred amount in
dispute generally is not a substantial reduction. In addition, a payment will be presumed not to meet this exception if the payment is made proximate to a downturn in the financial health of the Company.   
  (k) An authorized delegate of the Compensation Committee may act in the name, place, and stead of the Compensation Committee with
respect to the exceptions stated in paragraphs (b), (d), (e), (f), (h), (i), and (j), above.      4.  Deemed Acceleration Due to
Deferral Election Changes Under the SIP  .  The following actions or inactions will not constitute an acceleration of a payment under the Plan even if in accordance with the terms of the Plan, the actions or inactions result in a decrease in
the amounts deferred under the Plan, provided that such actions or inactions do not otherwise affect the time or form of payment under the Plan:      (a) A Participant s action or inaction under the SIP with respect to Pre-Tax Contributions under the SIP, including an adjustment to a deferral election under the SIP, provided that for any given
taxable year, the Participant s action or inaction does not result in a decrease in the amounts deferred under this Plan and any other nonqualified deferred compensation plan in which the Participant participates (other than Matching Credits
and similar contingent benefits credited under other nonqualified deferred compensation plans) in excess of the limit with respect to elective deferrals under Code section 402(g)(1)(A), (B), and (C) in effect for the taxable year in which such
action or inaction occurs; and/or      (b) A Participant s action or inaction under the SIP with respect to Pre-Tax
Contributions under the SIP and After-Tax Contributions to the SIP by the Participant that affects the amounts that are credited as Matching Credits or other similar contingent benefits under this Plan and any other nonqualified deferred
compensation plan in which the Participant participates, provided that the total of such Matching Credits and other contingent benefits never exceeds 100% of the Matching Contributions that would be provided under the SIP absent any plan-based
restrictions in the SIP that reflect limits on qualified plan contributions under the Code.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      26   

VII. ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN.    
   A.  Administration  . The Savings Plan Committee shall administer this Plan. As Plan Administrator, the Savings Plan Committee
shall have full discretionary authority to answer all questions arising in connection with the Plan, including its interpretation, application and administration, may adopt procedural rules, and may employ and rely on such legal counsel, such
actuaries, such accountants and such agents as it may deem advisable to assist in the administration of the Plan. Any and all decisions of the Savings Plan Committee as to interpretation or application of this Plan shall be conclusive and binding on
all persons, shall be given full force and effect, and shall be reviewed by any court or arbitrator on an arbitrary and capricious standard, rather than a  de novo  standard.   
   B.  Delegation  . The Savings Plan Committee may (1) designate a person or persons and/or appoint an administrative
committee to carry out the day-to-day administration of the Plan, and (2) authorize any agent to execute or deliver any instrument or make any payment on the Savings Plan Committee s behalf or provide such services as the Savings Plan
Committee may require in carrying out the provisions of the Plan.       C.  Limitation of Liability  . Neither the
Savings Plan Committee nor any member of the Board of Directors nor any officer, employee or agent of the Company shall incur any liability individually or on behalf of any other individuals or on behalf of the Company for any act, or failure to
act, in relation to the Plan or the funds of the Plan unless such action or inaction is adjudged to be due to fraud. The Savings Plan Committee and each member of the Board of Directors shall be entitled, in good faith, to rely or act upon any
report or other information furnished to him by any other officer or other employee of the Company, the Company s independent certified public accountants, or any executive compensation consultant, legal counsel or other professional retained
by the Company. None of the Savings Plan Committee, the Compensation Committee or any member of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to act on or decide any matter relating solely to himself or any of his rights or benefits under the Plan.
      D.  Indemnification  . The Savings Plan Committee, each member of the Board of Directors and their delegates, and
the officers, employees and agents of the Company shall be indemnified by the Company, to the extent permitted by the Company s certificate of incorporation or by the Company s bylaws, against any and all liabilities arising by reason of
any act, or failure to act, in relation to the Plan or the funds of the Plan, including, without limitation, expenses incurred in the defense of any claim relating to the Plan or the funds of the Plan, and amounts paid in any compromise or
settlement relating to the Plan or the funds of the Plan, unless such action or inaction is adjudged to be due to fraud.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      27   

E.  Claims Procedure  . All claims for benefits under the Plan shall be submitted
and reviewed in accordance with the Claims Appeal Guidelines (attached hereto). No claimant shall institute any action or proceeding in any state or federal court of law or equity or before any administrative tribunal or arbitrator for a claim of
benefits under the Plan until the claimant has first exhausted the Plan s review procedures set forth in the Claims Appeal Guidelines. Any and all decisions of the Company pursuant to the Claims Appeal Guidelines shall be conclusive and binding
on all persons, shall be given full force and effect, and shall be reviewed by any court or arbitrator on an arbitrary and capricious standard, rather than a  de   novo  standard.   
   F.  Statute of Limitations  . A claimant may not bring a lawsuit to recover benefits under the Plan until he has exhausted the
internal administrative process established pursuant to this Section VII. No legal action may be commenced at all unless commenced no later than three (3) years following the issuance of a final decision on the claim for benefits, or the
expiration of the final appeal decision period if no decision is issued. This three-year statute of limitations on suits for all benefits shall apply in any forum where the claimant may initiate such suit.   
   G.  Expense  . Expenses of the Savings Plan Committee attributable to the administration of the Plan shall be paid directly by
the Company.       VIII. GENERAL PROVISIONS.        A.  Termination of the Plan  . The Board of Directors of the Company reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time, and the Company or any other Participating Employer may terminate this
Plan with respect to its Employees who participate in the SIP;  provided ,  however , that no such termination shall be effective retroactively. As of the effective date of termination of the Plan:   
  1. The rights of a Participant to his Plan Account established under this Plan shall become non-forfeitable.   
  2. The Account Balance of any Participant (or his Beneficiary) whose Account Balance payments have commenced shall continue to be paid;
     3. No further amounts may be credited to the Plan Account of a Participant whose Account Balance payments have not commenced
and such Participant (or his Beneficiary) shall retain the right to an Account Balance hereunder; and   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      28   

4. Account Balance payments that have not commenced as of the Plan termination date may be
accelerated provided that (a) the Company s termination and liquidation of the Plan does not occur proximate to a downturn in the financial health of the Company, (b) no payment of Account Balances are made earlier than 12 months
after all action necessary to irrevocably terminate and liquidate the Plan has been completed other than payments that would be payable under the terms of the Plan if the action to terminate and liquidate the Plan had not occurred, (c) all
payment of Account Balances are completed within 24 months thereafter, (d) all other nonqualified account balance plans maintained by the Company that would be aggregated with the Plan under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(c) are
terminated with respect to all participants in such plans, and (e) the Company does not adopt a new plan that would be aggregated with any terminated plan under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(c) if the Participant participated in both
plans, at any time within three years following the date the Company takes all necessary action to irrevocably terminate and liquidate the Plan, and (f) the conditions of Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(ix)(C) are satisfied.   
   B.  Plan Not a Contract of Employment  . Nothing in this Plan shall be construed as giving any Employee the right to be
retained in the employ of any Participating Employer. Each Participating Employer in the Plan expressly reserves the right to dismiss any Employee at any time without regard to the effect which such dismissal might have upon him under the Plan.
      C.  Amendment  . This Plan may be amended at any time by the Compensation Committee or by the Savings Plan
Committee at any time in accordance with the materiality guidelines regarding modifications to employee benefit plans established by the Compensation Committee, except that no such amendment shall deprive any Participant of the amount then credited
to his Plan Account and vested at the time of such amendment.       D.  Funding  . All amounts payable in accordance
with this Plan shall constitute a general unsecured obligation of the Company and the other Participating Employers. Benefits payable under this Plan, as well as any administrative costs related to the Plan, shall not be funded and shall be made out
of the general assets of the Company and the other Participating Employers or any grantor trust established for this purpose.   
  The Company may, in its discretion, establish a grantor trust for the benefit of the Participants of the Plan. The assets placed in such
trust shall be held separate and apart from other Company funds and shall be used exclusively for the purposes set forth in the Plan and the applicable trust agreement, subject to the following conditions:   
  1. the creation of said trust shall not cause the Plan to be other than  unfunded  for purposes of Title I of ERISA;
  
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      29   

2. the Company shall be treated as  grantor  of said trust for purposes of section
677 of the Code;      3. the agreement of such trust shall provide that its assets may be used upon the insolvency or bankruptcy
of the Company to satisfy claims of the Company s general creditors and that the rights of such general creditors are enforceable by them under federal and state law;      4. the trust shall not be established as an offshore trust; and      5. the trust
shall not provide that its assets will become restricted to the payment of the Account Balances in the event of a change in the financial health of the Company.      To the extent that a grantor trust is established by the Company, the Savings Plan Committee may from time to time reserve unto itself the right to vote any shares of equity securities held in a trust
fund or may permit such other committee, or investment manager or managers as it may designate to exercise such responsibility.   
  No Participant or Beneficiary shall have any right, title or interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company may make to
aid the Company in meeting its obligation hereunder or assets held by any trust. Nothing contained in this Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship,
between the Company and any Participant or Beneficiary. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company hereunder, such rights are no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company.
      E.  Facility of Payment  . In the event that the Company shall find that a Participant or Beneficiary is unable to
care for his affairs because of illness or accident, or because such individual is a minor or has died, the Company may, unless a claim shall have been made therefore by a duly appointed legal representative, direct that any benefit payment due to
him pursuant to this Plan, to the extent not payable from a grantor trust, be paid on his behalf to his spouse, a child, a parent or other blood relative, or to a person with whom he resides, and any such payment so made shall be a complete
discharge of the liabilities of the Company and the Plan therefor.       F.  Withholding Taxes  . The Company shall
deduct from any payment made under the Plan the amount of withholding taxes due any federal, state or local authority in respect of such payment and take such other action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy all obligations
for payment of such withholding, including, without limitation, satisfaction of the obligation to pay Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) taxes imposed under the Code and/or to pay state, local or foreign tax obligations arising from
participation in the plan in accordance with Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(vi) or (xi).   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      30   

G.  Compliance with Code Section 409A  .   
  1. It is intended that the terms of the Plan and Participant and Beneficiary rights hereunder meet applicable requirements of Code
section 409A and the final Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder so that a Participant or Beneficiary is not deemed to be in constructive receipt of compensation until such time as benefits are actually paid. The Plan shall be interpreted and
administered to the extent possible in a manner consistent with the foregoing statement of intent.      2. In each case where the
Plan provides for the payment of post-409A Account Balances within a fixed period of time after Separation From Service (e.g., within 60 days after Separation From Service) and such period beings and ends in different calendar years, the exact
payment date within such range shall be determined by the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, and the Participant shall have no right to designate the year in which the payment shall be made.   
  3. In each case where the Plan provides for the payment of amounts on a specified date (for example, February 1 or the first day of
the year following the year in which a Participant or Beneficiary dies), such amounts shall be treated as distributed on that date if they are distributed no earlier than 30 days before such date and no later than the last day of the calendar year
in which such date occurs, or, if later, by the 15th day of the third calendar month after such date occurs, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(d), including without limitation the requirement
that the employee shall in no event have the right directly or indirectly to influence or designate the taxable year of payment.      4. In no event whatsoever shall the Company be liable for any additional tax interest or penalties that may be imposed on the Participant (or his Beneficiary) as a result of Code section 409A or any
damages for failing to comply with Code section 409A.       H.  Construction  .   
  1. This Plan shall be construed, regulated, administered and enforced under the laws of the State of New York, without regard to its
conflict of laws provisions, to the extent such laws are not superseded by applicable federal law.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      31   

2. Whenever appropriate, words used herein in the singular may be read in the plural, or
words used herein in the plural may be read in the singular; the masculine may be read to include the feminine and the feminine may be read to include the masculine.      3. The illegality of any particular provision of this document shall not affect the other provisions and the document shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid provision were omitted.
     4. Headings and subheadings in the Plan are for reference only, and if there is any conflict between such headings or
subheadings and the text of the Plan, the text shall control.       I.  Successors and Assigns  . The Plan shall be
binding on the Company s successors and assigns. No right, title or interest of any kind in the Plan or any benefit under the Plan shall be (1) transferable or assignable by a Participant (or his Beneficiary), (2) be subject to
alienation, anticipation, sale, pledge, encumbrance, garnishment, attachment, levy, execution or other legal or equitable process, or (3) be subject to debts, contracts, liabilities or engagements, torts of any Participant (or his Beneficiary),
pre-nuptial agreement, divorce decree or agreement in relation to a divorce decree, other equitable property distribution incident to divorce or other dissolution of marriage, or court order including but not limited to a domestic relations order
and/or a qualified domestic relations order under the SIP. Any attempt to alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, garnish, attach or take any other action subject to legal or equitable process or encumber or dispose of any interest in the Plan
shall be void.       IX. EFFECTIVE DATE.       This amended and restated Plan shall be effective as of January 1, 2012, except as otherwise specified herein.       X. SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE SPIN-OFF OF U.S. MEAD JOHNSON TRANSFERRED EMPLOYEES.        A.  Introduction  . Pursuant to that certain Separation Agreement by and among the Company, Mead Johnson Nutrition Company, and MJN Restructuring Holdco, Inc., dated January 31, 2009 (the
 Separation Agreement ), the business of the Company was separated, effective as of the Separation Date (as defined below), into two independent businesses, the  Company Business  and the  Mead Johnson Business,  and
the assets and liabilities of the Mead Johnson Business were transferred to MJN Restructuring Holdco., Inc. and members of the  Mead Johnson Group  as that term is defined in Section 1.49 of that certain Employee Matters Agreement by
and between BMS and MJN Restructuring Holdco., Inc., dated   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      32   

January 31, 2009, (collectively referred to herein as  Mead Johnson ). Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, the Company and MJN Restructuring Holdco, Inc., entered into that
certain Employee Matters Agreement, dated January 31, 2009 (the  Employee Matters Agreement ), which allocated between them the assets, liabilities and responsibilities with respect to, among other things, certain employee benefit
plans and programs. Pursuant to the Employee Matters Agreement, and that certain Plan Transfer Agreement by and between the Company and MJN Restructuring Holdco, Inc., dated January 31, 2009 (the  Plan Transfer Agreement ), and
notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, and as outlined in more detail in this Section X and subject to all of the provisions contained herein, (1) effective on the Separation Date, Mead Johnson adopted the Mead Johnson Benefit
Equalization Plan-Retirement Savings Plan (the  Mead Johnson Plan ) and ceased to be a Participating Employer in the Plan, and each Participant who is a  US Mead Johnson Transferred Employee,  as defined in the Employee Matters
Agreement, ceased accruing benefits under this Plan, (2) all benefit obligations accrued pursuant to the Plan of the US Mead Johnson Transferred Employees were assigned to and assumed by Mead Johnson pursuant to the Mead Johnson Plan, and
(3) on and after the Separation Date, no employee of Mead Johnson shall be eligible to become a Participant in, or accrue or receive any benefit under, the Plan. This Section X is intended to provide provisions required to effectuate the
foregoing.       B.  Effective Date  . This Section X shall be effective as of February 9, 2009 (the
 Separation Date ).       C.  Applicability  . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the
provisions of this Section X modify and shall supersede any provision of the Plan to the contrary. Each provision of the Plan other than those of this Section X, shall be subject to this Section X, and in the event of any inconsistency between such
provision and Section X, the provisions of this Section X shall govern.       D.  Plan Spin-off  . Notwithstanding
anything in this Plan to the contrary, and as provided in more detail in this Section X, effective as of the Separation Date:   
  1. Mead Johnson ceased to be a Participating Employer in the Plan;   
  2. Each Participant who is a  US Mead Johnson Transferred Employee  (as defined in the Employee Matters Agreement) ceased
accruing benefits under this Plan;      3. The liability for all benefits under the Plan of the US Mead Johnson Transferred
Employees (including, without limitation, all accrued benefits as of the Separation Date, and all related benefits, rights and features, ancillary   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      33   

benefits, and optional forms of distribution) ( Mead Johnson Liabilities ) were assigned to and assumed by Mead Johnson pursuant to the Mead Johnson Plan (such assignment and assumption
of Mead Johnson Liabilities being referred to as the  Spin-off  and      4. On and after the Separation Date, no
employee of Mead Johnson shall be eligible to become a Participant in, or accrue or receive a benefit under, the Plan.       E.
 Eligibility to Participate in the Plan  . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, including, without limitation, the provisions of Section II, effective on and after the Separation Date, no employee of Mead Johnson shall
become a Participant in, or accrue benefits under, the Plan during any period in which he is employed by Mead Johnson. In the case of an individual who was a Participant in the Plan prior to the Separation Date, who became a US Mead Johnson
Transferred Employee on that date, and whose accrued benefit was transferred to the Mead Johnson Plan, such individual shall no longer be eligible to participate in the Plan, to accrue any benefit under the Plan, or to receive any benefit under the
Plan.       F.  No Benefit Payable Hereunder  . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, from and after the
Separation Date, the Mead Johnson Plan shall be solely responsible for, and the Plan, the fiduciaries with respect to the Plan, and the Company shall not have any liability for, any of the Mead Johnson Liabilities. Subject to Section G, below,
(1) in no event shall any benefit be payable under the Plan to a US Mead Johnson Transferred Employee; and (2) any additional service or compensation earned by such individual on or after the Separation Date shall not be taken account
under this Plan for any purpose, and shall have no effect on, or cause any benefit to be payable under, this Plan.       G.
 Rehires  . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the case of a US Mead Johnson Transferred Employee who, prior to the Separation Date, was a Participant in the Plan and whose benefits under the Plan were transferred as of that
date to the Mead Johnson Plan, and who later terminates employment with Mead Johnson and is reemployed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (or one of its affiliates other than Mead Johnson and its subsidiaries) ( BMS ) and becomes a
Participant in the Plan upon the satisfaction of the conditions of Section III, his Hours of Service and Years of Service shall be taken into account, in accordance with the terms of the Plan other than those of this Section X, for purposes of
determining his eligibility for and the vested status of any benefit to which he may become entitled under the Plan on account of his period of reemployment, and otherwise to the extent that such Hours of Service and Years of Service would be
recognized with respect to a rehired employee under the terms of the Plan other than those of this Section X.   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      34   

H.  No Separation from Service  . The Spin-off shall in no event be construed to
give rise to a Separation from Service under the Plan that would entitle a Participant to a distribution, and in no event shall any US Mead Johnson Transferred Employee be entitled to a distribution of any benefit hereunder as a result of the
Spin-off. The right of a US Mead Johnson Transferred Employee to a distribution under the Mead Johnson Plan shall be determined under the terms of that Plan.      *        *        *        *   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      35   

EXHIBIT A       CLAIMS APPEAL GUIDELINES      (Attached)   
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      36   

EXHIBIT B        TABLE I        Elections in Effect Made Prior to 2006   General Rules

Form of Payment Elected for   
   Pre-409A Account Balance    

Post-409A Account Balance Paid       in Post-2007 Default Form    

If Participant Makes an Election After 2006 Under BEP-SIP     

Lump Sum 1 year after Separation From Service  
     
    Lump Sum upon Separation     From Service   
      
        1.  Entire
Account Balance becomes subject to Code section 409A.         2.  Entire Account Balance distributed at same time and in same form.      
  3.  Available Options: Lump sum or up to 15 annual installments.  
      4.  MUST defer payment of lump
sum or commencement of installments 5 more years in addition to existing 1 year.         5.  Lump sum may not be made or installments may not commence any later than 10 years after Separation From Service.          
 
    Lump Sum upon Separation From Service      
  No election         Five annual installments beginning immediately after Separation From Service   

1.  Entire Account Balance becomes subject to Code section
409A.         2.  Entire
Account Balance distributed at same time and in same form.         3.  Available Options: Lump sum or up to 15 annual installments.      
  4.  MUST defer payment of lump sum or commencement of installments at least 5 years from Separation
From Service.         5.  Lump
sum may not be made or installments may not commence any later than 10 years after Separation From Service.    

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      B - 1   

TABLE II        Elections in Effect Made Prior to 2006   by Participant        

Participant    
      
     Grandfathered Election for   
   Payment of Pre-409A       Account Balance    
      
     Form of Payment for Post-   
   409A Account Balance       (Default)    

If Participant Makes an Election After 2006 Under BEP-SIP     

PG  
      
  Lump Sum 1 year after Separation From Service  
      
    Lump Sum upon Separation     From
Service   
      
        1.  Entire
Account Balance becomes subject to Code section 409A.         2.  Entire Account Balance distributed at same time and in same form.      
  3.  Available Options: Lump sum or up to 15 annual installments.  
      4.  MUST defer payment of lump
sum or commencement of installments 5 more years in addition to existing 1 year.         5.  Lump sum may not be made or installments may not commence any later than 10 years after Separation From Service.    
 
        JF  
          HB  
           
  RM   
      
        No election, so immediate lump Sum under
default         Five annual installments beginning immediately after Separation
From Service         Lump Sum upon Separation From Service   

1.  Entire Account Balance becomes subject to Code section 409A.  
      2.  Entire Account Balance
distributed at same time and in same form.         3.  Available Options: Lump sum or up to 15 annual installments.      
  4.  MUST defer payment of lump sum or commencement of installments at least 5 years from Separation
From Service.         5.  Lump
sum may not be made or installments may not commence any later than 10 years after Separation From Service.    

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      B - 2   

TABLE III        Split Elections   General Rules        

Grandfathered Election Applicable   
   to Pre-409A Account Balance    
      
     Election Applicable to Post-409A   
   Account Balance    

If Participant Makes an Election After 2006 Under BEP-SIP     

Five annual installments commencing 1 year 3 months after Separation From Service  
      
  Two annual installments commencing five years after Separation From Service  
      
    1.  Entire Account Balance becomes subject to Code section
409A.         2.  Entire
Account Balance distributed at same time and in same form.         3.  Available Options: Lump sum or up to 15 annual installments.      
  4.  MUST defer payment of lump sum or commencement of installments at least 5 more years from date
already applicable to post-2004 accruals.         5.  Lump sum may not be made or installments may not commence any later than 10 years after Separation From Service.    
 
  Lump Sum 6 months after Separation From Service  
      
  Lump Sum 5 years after Separation From Service  

None  
      
  Lump Sum 5 years after Separation From Service  

Lump Sum 3 months after Separation From Service  
      
  Lump Sum 5 years after Separation From Service  

Lump Sum 1 year after Separation From Service  
      
  Lump Sum 5 years after Separation From Service  

Lump Sum 5 years after Separation From Service  
      
  Lump Sum 5 years after Separation From Service  

Lump Sum 5 years after Separation From Service  
      
  Ten annual installments commencing 6 years after Separation From Service  
      
        1.  Entire
Account Balance becomes subject to Code section 409A.         2.  Entire Account Balance distributed at same time and in same form.      
  3.  Available Options: Lump sum or up to 15 annual installments.  
      4.  MUST defer payment of lump
sum or commencement of installments at least and not more than 5 more years from date already applicable to post-2004 accruals.    
 
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      B - 3   

TABLE IV        Split Elections   by Participant        

Participant    
     
     Grandfathered Election Applicable to Pre- 409A Account
Balance    
     
     Election Applicable to Post-   
   409A Account Balance    

If Participant Makes an Election After 2006 Under BEP-SIP     

CY  
     
  No election, so lump sum upon Separation From Service  
     
  No election, so lump sum upon Separation From Service  
     
    1.  Entire Account Balance becomes subject to Code section
409A.         2.  Entire
Account Balance distributed at same time and in same form.         3.  Available Options: Lump sum or up to 15 annual installments.      
  4.  MUST defer payment of lump sum or commencement of installments at least 5 more years from date
already applicable to post-2004 accruals.         5.  Lump sum may not be made or installments may not commence any later than 10 years after Separation From Service.          
 
  RM  
     
  Lump Sum 3 months after Separation From Service  
     
  Lump Sum 5 years after Separation From Service  

BC  
     
  Lump Sum 6 months after Separation From Service  
     
  Lump Sum 5 years after Separation From Service  

AC  

Lump Sum 5 years after Separation From Service  

EF  

Lump Sum 5 years after Separation From Service  

JC  
     
  Five annual installments beginning 1 Year 3 months after Separation From Service  
     
  Two annual installments beginning 5 years after Separation From Service  

FP  
     
  Lump Sum 1 year after Separation From Service  
     
  Lump Sum 5 years after Separation From Service  

MP  
     
  Lump Sum 5 years after Separation From Service  
     
  Lump Sum 5 years after Separation From Service  

JS  
     
  Lump Sum 5 years after Separation From Service  
     
  Ten annual installments beginning 6 ears after Separation From Service  
     
    1.  Entire Account Balance becomes subject to Code section 409A.  
      2.  Entire Account Balance
distributed at same time and in same form.         3.  Available Options: Lump sum or up to 15 annual installments.      
  4.  MUST defer payment of lump sum or commencement of installments at least and not more than 5 more
years from date already applicable to post-2004 accruals.    
 
         Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     Benefit Equalization Plan   Savings and Investment Program      (Effective as of January 1, 2012)      B - 4   

</EX-10.XX>

<EX-12>
 21
 d450621dex12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

EXHIBIT 12.        Computation of Earnings to Fixed Charges        Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges:

(1)  
  Rents included in the computation consist of one-third of rental expense which the Company believes to be a reasonable estimate of an interest factor in its leases.
    
         E-12-1

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 22
 d450621dex21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

EXHIBIT 21.         Subsidiaries of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company        345 Park Corporation   
  A.G. Medical Services, P.A.      Adnexus, a
Bristol-Myers Squibb R D Company      Allard Labs Acquisition G.P.      Amira Pharmaceuticals, Inc.      Amylin Investments LLC   
  Amylin Ohio LLC      Amylin Pharmaceuticals, LLC
     Apothecon, Inc.      Blisa Acquisition
G.P.      BMS Benelux Holdings B.V.      BMS
Bermuda Nominees L.L.C.      BMS Data Acquisition Company LLC      BMS Forex Company      B-MS GeneRx      BMS Holdco, Inc.      BMS Holdings      BMS Holdings Spain, S.L.      BMS International Insurance Company Limited   
  BMS Investco SAS      BMS Korea Holdings L.L.C.
     BMS Latin American Nominees L.L.C.   
  BMS Luxembourg Partners, L.L.C.      BMS Omega
Bermuda Holdings Finance Ltd.      BMS Pharmaceutical Korea Limited      BMS Pharmaceuticals Germany Holdings B.V.      BMS Pharmaceuticals International Holdings Netherlands
B.V.      BMS Pharmaceuticals Korea Holdings B.V.      BMS Pharmaceuticals Mexico Holdings B.V.      BMS Pharmaceuticals Netherlands Holdings B.V.
     BMS Real Estate LLC      BMS Spain
Investments, Inc.      Bristol (Iran) S.A.   
  Bristol Iran Private Company Limited      Bristol
Laboratories Inc.      Bristol Laboratories International, S.A.      Bristol Laboratories Medical Information Systems Inc.      Bristol-Myers (Andes) L.L.C.   
  Bristol-Myers (Private) Limited      Bristol-Myers
de Venezuela S.C.A.      Bristol-Myers K.K.      Bristol-Myers Middle East S.A.L.      Bristol-Myers Overseas Corporation   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC      Bristol-Myers Squibb (China) Investment Co., Ltd.      Bristol-Myers Squibb (Israel) Ltd.   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb (NZ) Limited      Bristol-Myers
Squibb (Proprietary) Limited      Bristol-Myers Squibb (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd.      Bristol-Myers Squibb (Singapore) Pte. Limited      Bristol-Myers Squibb (Taiwan) Ltd.   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb (West Indies) Ltd.   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb A.E.      
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Aktiebolag      Bristol-Myers
Squibb and Gilead Sciences Limited      Bristol-Myers Squibb Argentina S. R. L.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Australia Pty. Ltd.      Bristol-Myers Squibb B.V.   
         E-21-1

Bristol-Myers Squibb Belgium S.A.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Bulgaria EOOD      Bristol-Myers Squibb Business Services Limited   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Canada Co.      Bristol-Myers
Squibb Canada International Limited      Bristol-Myers Squibb de Colombia S.A.      Bristol-Myers Squibb de Costa Rica Sociedad Anonima      Bristol-Myers Squibb de Guatemala, S.A.
     Bristol-Myers Squibb de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Delta Company Limited      Bristol-Myers Squibb Ecuador Cia. Ltd.   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Egypt, LLC      Bristol-Myers
Squibb EMEA Sarl      Bristol-Myers Squibb Epsilon Holdings      Bristol-Myers Squibb Farmaceutica Portuguesa S.A.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Farmaceutica S.A.
     Bristol-Myers Squibb GesmbH.   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb GmbH   Co. KGaA   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Holding Germany GmbH   Co. KG      Bristol-Myers Squibb Holdings 2002 Limited      Bristol-Myers Squibb Holdings Germany Verwaltungs Gmbh
     Bristol-Myers Squibb Holdings Ireland   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Holdings Limited   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Holdings Pharma Ltd. Liability Company      Bristol-Myers Squibb Ilaclari, Inc.      Bristol-Myers Squibb India Pvt. Ltd.   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb International Company   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb International Corporation   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Investco, L.L.C.   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Luxembourg International S.C.A.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Luxembourg S.a.r.l.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Manufacturing Company   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Marketing Services S.R.L.   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb MEA GmbH      Bristol-Myers
Squibb Middle East   Africa FZ-LLC      Bristol-Myers Squibb Norway Ltd.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Nutricionales de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Peru S.A.
     Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma (HK) Ltd   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma (Thailand) Limited   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Company   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG      Bristol-Myers
Squibb Pharma Holding Company, LLC      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Ventures Corporation      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Trading Kft      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceuticals   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceuticals Limited   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Polska Sp. z o.o.   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Products S.A.   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Puerto Rico, Inc.   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Puerto Rico/Sanofi Pharmaceutical Partnership Puerto Rico      Bristol-Myers Squibb S.r.l.      Bristol-Myers Squibb SA (Baar)   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership      Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi-Synthelabo Puerto Rico      Bristol-Myers Squibb Sarl (France)   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Service Ltd.      
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Services Sp. z o.o.   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Sp. z o.o.      Bristol-Myers
Squibb spol. s r.o.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Superannuation Plan Pty. Ltd.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Trustees Ltd.   
         E-21-1

Bristol-Myers Squibb Verwaltungs GmbH      Bristol-Myers Squibb, S.A.      Bristol-Myers Squibb/Astrazeneca EEIG   
  Bristol-Myers Squibb/Pfizer EEIG      Bristol-Myers
Squibb/Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Partnership      Compania Bristol-Myers Squibb de Centro America   
  Convatec-Produtos Medicos, Limitada      E. R.
Squibb   Sons Inter-American Corporation      E. R. Squibb   Sons Limited   
  E. R. Squibb   Sons, L.L.C.      EWI
Corporation      FermaVir Pharmaceuticals, L.L.C.      FermaVir Research, L.L.C.      GenPharm International, L.L.C.   
  Grove Insurance Company Ltd.      Heyden
Farmaceutica Portugesa Limitada      Inhibitex, L.L.C.      Kosan Biosciences Incorporated      Lawrence Laboratories   
  Linson Investments Limited      Little Sycamore
Limited      Mead Johnson (Manufacturing) Jamaica Limited      Mead Johnson Farmaceutica Limitada      Mead Johnson Jamaica Ltd.   
  Medarex, L.L.C.      O.o.o. Bristol-Myers Squibb
     O.o.o. Bristol-Myers Squibb Manufacturing      Oy Bristol-Myers Squibb (Finland) AB      Princeton Pharmaceutical Products, Inc.   
  Princeton-Produtos Farmaceuticos, LDA      Route 22
Real Estate Holding Corporation      Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC      Sino-American Shanghai Squibb Pharmaceuticals Limited      Societe Francaise de Complements
Alimentaires(S.O.F.C.A.)      Squibb Farmaceutica Portuguesa, Limitada      Squibb Manufacturing Company      Squibb Middle East S.A. (Panama)   
  Swords Laboratories      Tri-Supply Limited
     Unterstutzungskasse Bristol-Myers Squibb GmbH      Westwood-Intrafin, S.A.      Westwood-Squibb Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   
  ZymoGenetics Paymaster, LLC      ZymoGenetics, Inc.
     ZymoGenetics, LLC   
         E-21-1

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 23
 d450621dex23.htm
 EX-23

EX-23 

EXHIBIT 23.       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM      We consent to the
incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 33-33682, 33-62496, 333-114107, 333-117818, 333-150471 and 333-182852 on Form S-3, and Nos. 33-30856, 33-38411, 33-38587, 33-44788, 333-47403, 33-52691, 33-30756-02, 33-58187, 333-02873,
333-65424, 333-107414 and 333-182405 on Form S-8 of our reports dated February 15, 2013, relating to the consolidated financial statements of Bristol-Myers Squib Company and subsidiaries (the  Company ) and the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2012.       /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP       Parsippany, New Jersey   
  February 15, 2013   
         E-23-1

</EX-23>

<EX-31.A>
 24
 d450621dex31a.htm
 EX-31.A

EX-31.a 

EXHIBIT 31a.        CERTIFICATION BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER        PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Lamberto Andreotti, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company;      2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;      3. Based on
my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this annual report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:       

a.  
  designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;     

b.  
  designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c.  
  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d.  
  disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
       5. The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):   

a.  
  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting that are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b.  
  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 15, 2013       

/s/ LAMBERTO ANDREOTTI    
 
  Lamberto Andreotti   
 
  Chief Executive Officer   
 
         E-31-1

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 25
 d450621dex31b.htm
 EX-31.B

EX-31.b 

EXHIBIT 31b.        CERTIFICATION BY THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER        PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Charles Bancroft, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company;      2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;      3. Based on
my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this annual report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:       

a.  
  designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;     

b.  
  designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c.  
  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d.  
  disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
       5. The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):   

a.  
  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting that are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b.  
  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 15, 2013       

/s/ CHARLES BANCROFT    
 
  Charles Bancroft   
 
  Chief Financial Officer   
 
         E-31-2

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32.A>
 26
 d450621dex32a.htm
 EX-32.A

EX-32.a 

EXHIBIT 32a.        Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, as        Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    
  Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, I, Lamberto Andreotti, hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (the Report), as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 15, 2013, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.

/s/ LAMBERTO ANDREOTTI    
 
  Lamberto Andreotti   
 
    Chief Executive Officer     February 15, 2013    
 
         E-32-1

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 27
 d450621dex32b.htm
 EX-32.B

EX-32.b 

EXHIBIT 32b.        Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, as        Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    
  Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, I, Charles Bancroft, hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (the Report), as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 15, 2013, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.

/s/ CHARLES BANCROFT    
 
  Charles Bancroft   
 
    Chief Financial Officer     February 15, 2013    
 
         E-32-2

</EX-32.B>

<EX-101.INS>
 28
 bmy-20121231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 29
 bmy-20121231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 30
 bmy-20121231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 31
 bmy-20121231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 32
 bmy-20121231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 33
 bmy-20121231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

