<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20160212_10-K_edgar_data_14272_0000014272-16-000288_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>26043517</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1083129</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>1030849</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>9909623</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>10539828</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2975232</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>125</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>18</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000014272-16-000288.hdr.sgml : 20160212
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20160212080237
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000014272-16-000288
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		126
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20151231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20160212
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20160212

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BRISTOL MYERS SQUIBB CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000014272
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				220790350
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-01136
		FILM NUMBER:		161414272

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		345 PARK AVE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10154
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2125464000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		345 PARK AVE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10154

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BRISTOL MYERS CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19891012

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000014272-16-000288.txt : 20160212

10-K
 1
 bmy-20151231x10xk.htm
 10-K

10-K 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 
  _______________ 
  FORM 10-K 
  _______________ 
    
  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
    
  For the fiscal year ended December 31,   2015 
  Commission File Number 1-1136 
  _______________ 
  BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
  ________________ 
                   Delaware 
      
    22-0790350 
      (State or other jurisdiction of 
  incorporation or organization) 
      
    (IRS Employer 
  Identification No.) 

345 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10154 
  (Address of principal executive offices) 
  Telephone: (212) 546-4000 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  
               Title of each class 
      $2 Convertible Preferred Stock, $1 Par Value 

_________________ 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes    x      No      
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes           No    x 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes    x      No      
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes    x    No      
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.      
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  
                           Large accelerated filer    x 
       
    Accelerated filer      
       
    Non-accelerated filer      
       
    Smaller reporting company      

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes           No    x 
  The aggregate market value of the 1,665,867,299 shares of voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 30,   2015  ) was approximately $110,846,810,075. Bristol-Myers Squibb has no non-voting common equity. At February 1,   2016  , there were 1,669,459,090 shares of common stock outstanding. 
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: Portions of the Proxy Statement for the registrant s Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held May 3, 2016, to be filed within 120 days after the conclusion of the registrant's fiscal year ended December 31,   2015  , are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

PART I 
                   Item 1. 
    BUSINESS. 

General 
    
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, the Company, we, our or us) was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in August 1933 under the name Bristol-Myers Company, as successor to a New York business started in 1887. In 1989, Bristol-Myers Company changed its name to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company as a result of a merger. We are engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of biopharmaceutical products on a global basis. 
    
  We operate in one segment BioPharmaceuticals. For additional information about business segments, refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   2  . Business Segment Information.  
    
  We compete with other worldwide research-based drug companies, smaller research companies and generic drug manufacturers. Our products are sold worldwide, primarily to wholesalers, retail pharmacies, hospitals, government entities and the medical profession. We manufacture products in the United States (U.S.), Puerto Rico and in six foreign countries. 
    
  The percentage of revenues by significant region/country were as follows: 

Acquisitions and Divestitures 
    
  We have transitioned BMS into a leading-edge specialty biopharmaceutical company focused exclusively on discovering, developing, and delivering innovative medicines that address serious unmet medical needs. This transition has encompassed all areas of our business and operations. As part of this strategy, we have divested our diabetes and non-pharmaceutical businesses, restructured our alliances to divest certain mature brand products, implemented our acquisition and licensing strategy and executed our productivity transformation initiative. Significant divestitures include the anticipated divestiture of the investigational HIV medicines in the first half of 2016,   Erbitux*   in North America in 2015, our diabetes business in 2014 and Mead Johnson in 2009. As part of our acquisition and licensing strategy, we acquired Cardioxyl Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Cardioxyl) and Flexus Biosciences, Inc. (Flexus) in 2015, iPierian, Inc. (iPierian) in 2014, Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amylin) and Inhibitex, Inc. (Inhibitex) in 2012 and Amira Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amira) in 2011 and entered into several license and other collaboration arrangements. These transactions have allowed, and continue to allow, us to focus our resources behind growth opportunities which drive the greatest long-term value. From a disease standpoint, we are focused on the following core therapeutic areas: oncology, immuno-oncology, immunoscience, cardiovascular disease, fibrosis and genetically defined diseases. 
    
  Products 
    
  Our pharmaceutical products include chemically-synthesized drugs, or small molecules, and an increasing portion of products produced from biological processes (typically involving recombinant DNA technology), called  biologics.  Small molecule drugs are typically administered orally, e.g., in the form of a pill or tablet, although other drug delivery mechanisms are used as well. Biologics are typically administered to patients through injections or by infusion. Most of our revenues come from products in the following therapeutic classes: virology, including HIV infection; oncology; immunoscience; cardiovascular; and neuroscience. 
    
    2 

In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. Our business is focused on innovative biopharmaceutical products, and we rely on patent rights and various forms of regulatory protection to maintain the market exclusivity of our products. In the U.S., the European Union (EU) and some other countries, when these patent rights and other forms of exclusivity expire and generic versions of a medicine are approved and marketed, there are often substantial and rapid declines in the sales of the original innovative product. For further discussion of patent rights and regulatory forms of exclusivity, refer to   Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity  below. For further discussion of the impact of generic competition on our business, refer to     Generic Competition    below. 
    
  The following chart shows our key products together with the year in which the earliest basic exclusivity loss (patent rights or data exclusivity) occurred or is currently estimated to occur in the U.S., the EU, Japan and China. We also sell our pharmaceutical products in other countries; however, data is not provided on a country-by-country basis because individual country revenues are not significant outside the U.S., the EU, Japan and China. In many instances, the basic exclusivity loss date listed below is the expiration date of the patent that claims the active ingredient of the drug or the method of using the drug for the approved indication, if there is only one approved indication. In some instances, the basic exclusivity loss date listed in the chart is the expiration date of the data exclusivity period. In situations where there is only data exclusivity without patent protection, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical trial data to obtain marketing approval prior to the expiration of data exclusivity. 
    
  We estimate the market exclusivity period for each of our products for the purpose of business planning only. The length of market exclusivity for any of our products is impossible to predict with certainty because of the complex interaction between patent and regulatory forms of exclusivity and the inherent uncertainties regarding patent litigation. There can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in the estimate or that the exclusivity will be limited to the estimate. 
  The following schedule presents revenues of our key products and estimated basic exclusivity loss in the U.S., EU, Japan and China: 

Note: The currently estimated earliest year of basic exclusivity loss includes any statutory extensions of exclusivity that have been granted. In some instances, we may be able to obtain an additional six months exclusivity for a product based on the pediatric extension. In certain other instances, there may be later-expiring patents that cover particular forms or compositions of the drug, as well as methods of manufacturing or methods of using the drug. Such patents may sometimes result in a favorable market position for our products, but product exclusivity cannot be predicted or assured. Under the U.S. healthcare law enacted in 2010, qualifying biologic products will receive 12 years of data exclusivity before a biosimilar can enter the market, as described in more detail in   Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity  below. 
  *    Indicates brand names of products which are trademarks not owned by BMS. Specific trademark ownership information is included in the Exhibit Index. 
  ++    We do not currently market the product in the country or region indicated. 
  --    There is uncertainty about China's exclusivity laws which has resulted in generic competition in the China market. 
  ^    There is uncertainty about China's exclusivity laws. 
           ^^ 
    In May 2013, Apotex Inc., Actavis Group PTC ehf, Generics [UK] Limited (Mylan) and an unnamed company filed oppositions in the European Patent Office (EPO) seeking revocation of European Patent No. 1169038 (the '038 patent) covering dasatinib, the active ingredient in   Sprycel  . The  038 patent is scheduled to expire in April 2020 (excluding potential term extensions). On January 20, 2016, the Opposition Division of the EPO revoked the  038 patent. The Company will appeal the EPO s decision to the EPO Board of Appeal. The  038 patent will remain in force pending the outcome of our appeal of the EPO s decision, and we intend to pursue legal options to defend our intellectual property rights from any future infringement. Refer to  Note 22. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  for more information. 
              (a) 
    References to the EU throughout this Form 10-K include all member states of the European Union during the year ended December 31, 2015. Basic patent applications have not been filed in all current member states for all of the listed products. In some instances, the date of basic exclusivity loss will be different in various EU member states. For those EU countries where the basic patent was not obtained, there may be data protection available. 
       
    3 

(b) 
    Baraclude   U.S.: In September 2014, Teva Pharmaceuticals launched a generic version of   Baraclude   and we have experienced a negative impact on U.S. net product sales of   Baraclude   beginning in the fourth quarter of 2014. These actions follow a decision in June 2014 by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit to uphold a lower court decision invalidating   Baraclude   s patent in February 2013. In May 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court denied the Company's petition for a   writ of certiorari  . Accordingly, this case is now concluded. For more information about this patent litigation matter, refer to "Item 8. Financial Statements Note   22  . Legal Proceedings and Contingencies." 
               (d) 
    Exclusivity period relates to the   Daklinza   brand.  
              (e) 
    The composition of matter covering daclatasvir in Japan expires in 2028 including granted patent term extension. 
               (g) 
    Sustiva   U.S.: Exclusivity period relates to the   Sustiva   brand and does not include exclusivity related to any combination therapy. The composition of matter patent for efavirenz in the U.S. expired in 2013 and the method of use patent for the treatment of HIV infection expired in September 2014. Pediatric exclusivity has been granted, which provides an additional six month period of exclusivity added to the term of the patents listed in the Orange Book. In October 2014, the Company announced that it has successfully resolved all outstanding U.S. patent litigation relating to efavirenz and that loss of exclusivity in the U.S. for efavirenz is not expected to occur until December 2017. 
              (h) 
    Sustiva   EU: Exclusivity period relates to the   Sustiva   brand and does not include exclusivity related to any combination therapy. Market exclusivity for   Sustiva   expired in November 2013 in countries in the EU. Data exclusivity for   Sustiva   expired in the EU in 2009. 
              (i) 
    Empliciti  : We have a commercialization agreement with AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie) for   Empliciti  . For more information about our arrangement with AbbVie, refer to   Alliances  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   3  . Alliances.  AbbVie owns a patent covering elotuzumab as a composition of matter that expires in 2026 in the U.S. (excluding potential patent term extension) and 2024 in the EU, Japan and China (excluding potential patent term extensions in the EU and Japan). 
              (j) 
    Erbitux*   U.S.: Biologic product approved under a Biologics License Application (BLA). Data exclusivity in the U.S. expires in 2016. There is no patent that specifically claims the composition of matter of cetuximab, the active ingredient in   Erbitux*  . In 2015, the Company transferred its rights, including full commercialization and manufacturing responsibilities of   Erbitux*   in North America to Lilly in return for sales-based royalties. For more information about our arrangement with Lilly, refer to " Alliances" below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   3  . Alliances.  
              (k) 
    Erbitux*   Japan: Exclusivity period is based on regulatory data protection. BMS transferred its co-commercialization rights in Japan to Merck KgaA in 2015 in exchange for sales-based royalties. 
              (l) 
    Opdivo  : We jointly own a patent with Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Ono) covering      nivolumab as a composition of matter that expires in 2027 in the U.S. (excluding potential patent term extension) and 2026 in the EU (excluding potential patent term extensions). The composition of matter patent covering nivolumab in Japan expires in 2031 including granted patent term extension. 
              (m) 
    Sprycel  : A patent term extension has been granted in the U.S. extending the term on the basic composition of matter patent covering dasatinib until June 2020. In 2013, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with Apotex regarding a patent infringement suit covering the monohydrate form of dasatinib whereby Apotex can launch its generic dasatinib monohydrate abbreviated New Drug Application product in September 2024, or earlier in certain circumstances. In the U.S., orphan drug exclusivity expired in 2013. 
              (n) 
    Yervoy   U.S.: Exclusivity period is based on regulatory data protection. Data exclusivity expires in the U.S. in 2023. We own a patent covering ipilimumab as a composition of matter that currently expires in 2022 in the U.S. (excluding potential patent term extension).  
              (o) 
    Yervoy   EU: Exclusivity period is based on regulatory data protection. Data exclusivity expires in the EU in 2021. We own a patent covering ipilimumab as a composition of matter that currently expires in 2020 in the EU (excluding potential patent term extensions). 
              (p) 
    Yervoy   Japan: Exclusivity period is based on regulatory data protection. We own a patent covering ipilimumab as a composition of matter that currently expires in 2020 in Japan (excluding potential patent term extension). 
              (q) 
    Abilify*  : Our commercialization rights of   Abilify*   terminated in April 2015 in the U.S. and in June 2014 in the EU. 
              (r) 
    Orencia   U.S.: We have a series of patents covering abatacept and its method of use. In the U.S., a patent term extension has been granted for one of the composition of matter patents, extending the term of the U.S. patent to 2019. Data exclusivity expires in the U.S. in 2017 and the method of use patent expires in 2021. 
              (s) 
    Orencia   EU: In the EU, the composition of matter patent covering abatacept expired in 2012. In the majority of the EU countries, we have applied for supplementary protection certificates and also pediatric extension of the supplementary protection certificates for protection until 2017. Most of these protection certificates have been granted. Data exclusivity expires in the EU in 2017 and the method of use patent expires in 2021. 
              (t) 
    Orencia   Japan: Exclusivity period is based on regulatory data protection. 
              (u) 
    Eliquis   U.S.: The composition of matter patent covering apixaban in the U.S. expires in February 2023 (excluding potential patent term extension). In August 2015, we received a Petition for Inter Partes Review of the composition of matter patent covering apixaban filed at the United States Patent and Trademark Office by the Coalition for Affordable Drugs. For more information about this patent litigation matter, refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   22  . Legal Proceedings and Contingencies." 
              (v) 
    Eliquis   EU and Japan: The composition of matter patent covering apixaban in the EU expires in 2022. We have applied for supplementary protection certificates. Some of these supplementary protection certificates have been granted and expire in 2026. Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2021. The composition of matter covering apixaban in Japan expires in 2026 including granted patent term extension. 
       
  Below is a summary of the indication, product partner, if any, and third-party manufacturing arrangements, if any, for each of the above products in the U.S. and, where applicable, the EU and Japan. 
           Baraclude 
    Baraclude   is a potent and selective inhibitor of hepatitis B virus that was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus infection.   Baraclude   was discovered and developed internally. 
     Bulk active entecavir is manufactured by both the company and a third party. The product is then finished in our facilities. 
           Hepatitis C Franchise 
    Daklinza   (daclatasvir (DCV)) is an oral small molecule NS5A replication complex inhibitor for the treatment of hepatitis C virus infection (HCV) and was approved by the FDA for use with Gilead Sciences, Inc.'s (Gilead) sofosbuvir for genotype 3. 
     Sunvepra   (asunaprevir (ASV)) is an oral small molecule NS3 protease inhibitor for the treatment of HCV and is part of the dual regimen of DCV+ASV in Japan. 
  We manufacture our bulk requirements of daclatasvir and finish the product in our facilities. We obtain bulk requirements for asunaprevir from a third-party manufacturer and finish the product at a third-party facility. 
    4 

Reyataz Franchise 
    Reyataz   is a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV. The   Reyataz Franchise   includes   Reyataz   and combination therapy   Evotaz (  atazanavir 300 mg and cobicistat 150 mg), a once-daily single tablet two drug regimen combining   Reyataz   and Gilead's   Tybost*   (cobicistat) for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults. 
     We developed atazanavir under a worldwide license from Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation (Novartis) for which a royalty is paid based on a percentage of net product sales. We are entitled to promote   Reyataz   for use in combination with   Norvir*   (ritonavir) under a non-exclusive license agreement with AbbVie, as amended, for which a royalty is paid based on a percentage of net product sales. We have a licensing agreement with Gilead for   Evotaz  , which was approved in the U.S. in January 2015 and in the EU in July 2015. 
  We manufacture our bulk requirements for atazanavir and finish the product in our facilities. 
           Sustiva Franchise 
    Sustiva   is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV. The   Sustiva Franchise   includes   Sustiva  , an antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV, as well as bulk efavirenz which is included in the combination therapy   Atripla*   (efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), a once-daily single tablet three-drug regimen combining our   Sustiva   and Gilead s   Truvada*   (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate). For more information about our arrangement with Gilead, refer to   Alliances  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   3  . Alliances.  
     Rights to market efavirenz in the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom (UK), France, Germany, Ireland, Italy and Spain are licensed from Merck   Co., Inc. (Merck) for a royalty based on a percentage of revenues. Efavirenz is marketed by another company in Japan. 
  We obtain our bulk requirements for efavirenz from third parties and produce finished goods in our facilities. We supply our third parties  bulk efavirenz to Gilead, who is responsible for producing the finished   Atripla*   product. 
           Empliciti 
    Empliciti   is a humanized monoclonal antibody which was approved by the FDA as a treatment for multiple myeloma and is part of our alliance with AbbVie. Under the terms of the alliance, we were granted exclusive global rights to co-develop and commercialize   Empliciti  . In November 2015, the FDA approved   Empliciti   for the treatment of multiple myeloma as combination therapy with   Revlimid*   and dexamethasone in patients who have received one to three prior therapies.   Revlimid*   is a product of Celgene Corporation. In January 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) adopted a positive opinion recommending that   Empliciti   be granted approval for the treatment of multiple myeloma. We manufacture the bulk requirement for elotuzumab and finish the product in our facilities. 
              Erbitux* 
    Erbitux*  , a biological product,     is an IgG1 monoclonal antibody designed to exclusively target and block the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR), which is expressed on the surface of certain cancer cells in multiple tumor types as well as some normal cells.   Erbitux*   is approved in combination with irinotecan for the treatment of patients with EGFR-expressing metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) who have failed an irinotecan-based regimen and as monotherapy for patients who are intolerant of irinotecan. The FDA approved Erbitux* for use in combination with radiation therapy, for the treatment of locally or regionally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck and, as a single agent, for the treatment of patients with recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck for whom prior platinum-based therapy has failed. The FDA also approved Erbitux* for first-line recurrent locoregional or metastatic head and neck cancer in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy with 5-Fluorouracil. 
     Exclusive distribution rights in North America for cetuximab were granted to the Company by ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone), the predecessor company of ImClone LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly) and is part of our alliance with Lilly. In October 2015, we transferred our   Erbitux*   rights in North America to Lilly, including full commercialization and manufacturing responsibilities in return for sales-based royalties. For more information about our arrangement with Lilly, refer to " Alliances" below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   3  . Alliances.  
           Opdivo 
    Opdivo,   a biological product, is a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds to the programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1) on T and natural killer T (NKT) cells. In 2015, the FDA approved   Opdivo   for previously untreated patients with metastatic melanoma, previously treated patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma,  and previously treated non-squamous (NSQ) and squamous (SQ) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). In 2015,   Opdivo   received approval in the EU for previously treated SQ NSCLC and first-line and previously treated unresectable or metastatic melanoma. The   Opdivo  +  Yervoy   (ipilimumab) regimen was also approved by the FDA in 2015 for the treatment of BRAF V600 wild-type unresectable or metastatic melanoma. There are several ongoing potentially registrational trials for   Opdivo   in head and neck cancer, hodgkin and non-hodgkin lymphoma and bladder cancer, among other tumor types. Refer to " Alliances" below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   3  . Alliances  for further discussion of our arrangement with Ono for   Opdivo   in Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. 
     We obtain our bulk requirements for   Opdivo   from a third party and finish the product in our facilities. 
    5 

Sprycel 
    Sprycel   is a multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved for the first-line treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia in chronic phase and the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including   Gleevec*   (imatinib mesylate).   Gleevec*   is a trademark of Novartis. 
     Sprycel   was internally discovered and is part of our alliance with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka). For more information about our alliance with Otsuka, refer to   Alliances  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   3  . Alliances.  
  We manufacture our bulk requirements for dasatinib and finish the product in our facilities. 
           Yervoy 
    Yervoy,   a biological product, is a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with unresectable  or metastatic melanoma.   Yervoy   was approved in the U.S. and the EU in 2011 and in Japan in 2015. In 2015, the FDA approved   Yervoy   for the adjuvant treatment of patients with cutaneous melanoma. For more information, about research and development of   Yervoy  , refer to   Research and Development  below. 
     Yervoy   was discovered by Medarex and co-developed by the Company and Medarex, which is now our subsidiary.  
  Bulk ipilimumab is manufactured by both the Company and a third party. The product is finished both in our facilities and at a third-party facility. 
           Abilify* 
    Abilify*   is an atypical antipsychotic agent for adult patients with schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and major depressive disorder.   Abilify*   also has pediatric uses in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, among others. 
     BMS's rights to   Abilify*   expired in the U.S. in April 2015 and in all EU countries in June 2014. For more information about our arrangement with Otsuka, refer to   Alliances  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   3  . Alliances.  
           Orencia 
    Orencia  , a biological product, is a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity targeted initially at adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who have had an inadequate response to certain currently available treatments.   Orencia   is available in both an intravenous and subcutaneous formulation in the U.S., Europe and Japan. Refer to " Alliances" below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   3  . Alliances  for further discussion of our collaborations with Ono for   Orencia   in Japan. 
     Bulk abatacept is manufactured by both the Company and a third party. We finish both formulations of the product in our own facilities. 
           Eliquis 
    Eliquis   is an oral Factor Xa inhibitor targeted at stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation and the prevention and treatment of venous thromboembolic (VTE) disorders. Apixaban was discovered internally and is part of our alliance with Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer). For more information about our alliance with Pfizer, refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   3  . Alliances.  
     Apixaban is manufactured by both the Company and a third party. The product is then finished in our facilities. 
      
  Research and Development 
    
  We invest heavily in research and development (R D) because we believe it is critical to our long-term competitiveness. We have major R D facilities in New Jersey, and are expanding our existing California-based research facility and have announced future plans for the opening of a new R D site in Massachusetts. Research activities at our Connecticut facility will be phased out in the next few years. Research and development is also carried out at various other facilities throughout the world, including in Belgium, the UK, India, Japan and other sites in the U.S. We supplement our internal drug discovery and development programs with alliances and collaborative agreements which help us bring new products into the pipeline. In drug development, we engage the services of physicians, hospitals, medical schools and other research organizations worldwide to conduct clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of new products. Management continues to emphasize leadership, innovation, productivity and quality as strategies for success in our research and development activities. 
    
  We concentrate our research and development efforts in the following disease areas with significant unmet medical needs: immuno-oncology, oncology, immunoscience, cardiovascular, fibrotic diseases and genetically defined diseases. We also continue to analyze and may selectively pursue promising leads in other areas. In addition to discovering and developing new molecular entities, we look for ways to expand the value of existing products through new indications and formulations that can provide additional benefits to patients. 
    
    6 

In order for a new drug to reach the market, industry practice and government regulations in the U.S., the EU and most foreign countries provide for the determination of a drug s effectiveness and safety through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. The clinical development of a potential new drug includes Phase I, Phase II and Phase III clinical trials that have been designed specifically to support a new drug application for a particular indication, assuming the trials are successful. 
    
  Phase I clinical trials involve a small number of healthy volunteers or patients suffering from the indicated disease to test for safety and proper dosing. Phase II clinical trials involve a larger patient population to investigate side effects, efficacy, and optimal dosage of the drug candidate. Phase III clinical trials are conducted to confirm Phase II results in a significantly larger patient population over a longer term and to provide reliable and conclusive data regarding the safety and efficacy of a drug candidate. 
    
  The R D process typically takes about fourteen years, with approximately three years often spent in Phase III, or late-stage, development. We consider our R D programs in Phase III to be our significant R D programs. These programs include both investigational compounds in Phase III development for initial indications and marketed products that are in Phase III development for additional indications or formulations. 
    
  Drug development is time consuming, expensive and risky. On average, only about one in 10,000 chemical compounds discovered by pharmaceutical industry researchers proves to be both medically effective and safe enough to become an approved medicine. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and even late-stage product candidates sometimes fail to receive regulatory approval. According to the KMR Group, based on industry success rates from 2010-2014, approximately 92% of the compounds that enter Phase I development fail to achieve regulatory approval. The failure rate for compounds that enter Phase II development is approximately 83% and for compounds that enter Phase III development, it is approximately 39%. 
    
  Total research and development expenses include the costs of discovery research, preclinical development, early- and late-stage clinical development and drug formulation, as well as post-commercialization and medical support of marketed products, proportionate allocations of enterprise-wide costs, and other appropriate costs. Research and development spending was   $5.9 billion   in   2015  ,   $4.5 billion   in   2014   and   $3.7 billion   in   2013   and includes payments under third-party collaborations and contracts. At the end of   2015  , we employed approximately 8,500 people in R D activities, including a substantial number of physicians, scientists holding graduate or postgraduate degrees and higher-skilled technical personnel. 
    
  We manage our R D programs on a portfolio basis, investing resources in each stage of research and development from early discovery through late-stage development. We continually evaluate our portfolio of R D assets to ensure that there is an appropriate balance of early-stage and late-stage programs to support the future growth of the Company. Spending on our late-stage development programs represented approximately 30-45% of our annual R D expenses in the last three years. No individual investigational compound or marketed product represented 10% or more of our R D expenses in any of the last three years, except for   Opdivo   in 2015. 
    
    7 

Listed below are the investigational compounds that we have in Phase I, II and III clinical trials. Whether or not any of these or our other investigational compounds ultimately becomes one of our marketed products depends on the results of clinical studies, the competitive landscape of the potential product s market and the manufacturing processes necessary to produce the potential product on a commercial scale, among other factors. There can be no assurance that we will seek regulatory approval of any of these compounds or that, if such approval is sought, it will be obtained. There is also no assurance that a compound that is approved will be commercially successful. At this stage of development, we cannot determine all intellectual property issues or all the patent protection that may, or may not, be available for these investigational compounds. The data is as of January 1, 2016. 
                                       Immuno-Oncology 
      
    Oncology 
      
    Immunoscience 
      
    Cardiovascular 
      
    Fibrotic Diseases 
      
    Genetically Defined Diseases 
      
    Virology 
      Phase I 
      
    Phase I 
      
    Phase I 
      
    Phase I 
      
    Phase I 
      
    Phase I 

Anti-CSF 1R   (a)  
      
    Anti-Fucosyl GM1 
      
    Anti-CD40 
      
    Factor XIa Inhibitors 
      
    Galectin-3 Inhibitor   (f)  
      
    Anti-eTau   (j)  

Anti-GITR 
      
    Anti-HER2   (d)  
      
    Anti-CD40L 
      
    PAR4 Antagonist 
      
    PEG-FGF21 
      
    Anti-Myostatin 

Anti-LAG3 
      
    BET Inhibitor 
      
    BTK Inhibitor 

Lirilumab 
      (Anti-KIR)   (b)  
      
    Mesothelin-ADC 
      
    TYK2 Inhibitor 

Urelumab  
  (Anti-CD137) 
      
    Ulocuplumab  
  (Anti-CXCR4) 
      
    Anti-PD-L1 

Phase II 
      
    Phase II 
      
    Phase II 

Phase II 

Lulizumab  
  (Anti-CD28) 
      
    IKur Inhibitor 
      
    BMS-986020   
  (LPA1 Antagonist)   (g)  

BMS-955176  
  (HIV Maturation Inhibitor)   (k)  

Nitroxyl Donor   (e)  
      
    PEG-FGF21   (h)  

Pentraxin-2   (i)  

Phase III 

Phase III 
      Prostvac*   (c)  

Beclabuvir 

BMS-663068 
  (HIV Attachment Inhibitor)   (k)  

(a) 
    Exclusively licensed from Five Prime Therapeutics, Inc. 
              (b) 
    Exclusively licensed from Innate Pharma S.A. 
              (c) 
    Obtained through an exclusive option to license from Bavarian Nordic A/S. 
              (d) 
    Obtained through an exclusive license to acquire F-Star Alpha Ltd. 
              (e) 
    Obtained through acquisition of Cardioxyl Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
              (f) 
    Obtained through an exclusive option to acquire Galecto Biotech AB. 
              (g) 
    Obtained through the acquisition of Amira Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  
     Refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   14  . Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" for additional information. 
           (h) 
    Exclusively licensed from Ambrx, Inc. 
              (i) 
    Obtained through an exclusive warrant to acquire Promedior, Inc. 
              (j) 
    Obtained through acquisition of iPierian, Inc. 
              (k) 
    Pending sale to ViiV Healthcare. 
       
  Additional information on our late-stage investigational compounds that we have in Phase III clinical trials or under regulatory review for at least one potential indication is below. The patent coverage highlighted below includes patent terms and patent term extensions that have been granted.  
                   Beclabuvir 
      
    Beclabuvir is an oral small molecule non-nucleoside NS5B inhibitor in regulatory review in Japan for use in combination with DCV and ASV for the treatment of HCV. We own a patent covering Beclabuvir as a composition of matter that expires in 2027 in the U.S. 

BMS-663068 
      
    BMS-663068 is an investigational compound being studied in HIV-1 which has shown antiviral activity in HIV-1 infected individuals. Attachment inhibitors have a distinct mode of action from other entry inhibitors, which prevent entry of HIV-1 into the host cell following attachment. BMS-663068 is a prodrug which is metabolized to the active basic compound. We hold a patent covering BMS-663068 as a composition of matter that expires in November 2027 in the U.S. BMS-663068 is expected to be sold to ViiV Healthcare in the first half of 2016. 

Prostvac* 
      
    Prostvac*   is Bavarian Nordic's investigational Phase III prostate-specific antigen (PSA)-targeting cancer immunotherapy in development for the treatment of asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. BMS has an exclusive option to license and commercialize   Prostvac*  . 

8 

The following table lists potential additional indications and/or formulations of key marketed products that are in potentially registrational trials or currently under regulatory review: 
                   Key marketed product 
       
    Potential indication and/or formulation 

Hepatitis C Franchise 
      
    Combination with other antivirals for the treatment of HCV 

Empliciti 
       
    Additional indication in first-line multiple myeloma 

Opdivo 
       
    Additional indications in melanoma, renal cell carcinoma (RCC), lung cancer, hodgkin and non-hodgkin lymphoma, head and neck cancer, bladder cancer, glioblastoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, gastric cancer, esophageal cancer in monotherapy and/or in combination with   Yervoy 

Orencia 
       
    Additional indications in lupus nephritis, psoriatic arthritis, early RA and auto-injector device 

Eliquis 
      
    Pediatric VTE treatment 

The following key developments are currently expected to occur during   2016   with respect to our significant pipeline programs. The outcome and timing of these expected developments are dependent upon a number of factors including, among other things, the availability of data, the outcome of certain clinical trials, acceptance of presentations at certain medical meetings and/or actions by health authorities. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update this information, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 
                   Hepatitis C Franchise 
       
    Data available from clinical trials Potential approvals for additional indications 

Empliciti 
       
    Potential approval in multiple myeloma in the EU and Japan 
  Data available from Phase III study in first-line multiple myeloma 

Opdivo 
      
    Potential approval in the EU for NSQ NSCLC,   Opdivo  +  Yervoy   combination in melanoma and RCC 
  Data available from potentially registrational clinical trials in hodgkin and non-hodgkin lymphoma, head and neck cancer, bladder cancer, glioblastoma and lung cancer  
  Potential submissions in various tumors based on registrational trials. 

Alliances 
    
  We enter into alliances with third parties that transfer rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products that are owned by other parties. These alliances include licensing arrangements, co-development and co-marketing agreements, co-promotion arrangements and joint ventures. When such alliances involve sharing research and development costs, the risk of incurring all research and development expenses for compounds that do not lead to revenue-generating products is reduced. However, profitability on alliance products is generally lower because profits from alliance products are shared with our alliance partners. We actively pursue such arrangements and view alliances as an important complement to our own discovery, development and commercialization activities. 
    
  Each of our alliances with third parties who own the rights to manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products contain customary early termination provisions typically found in agreements of this kind and are generally based on the material breach of the agreement by a party, or bankruptcy (voluntary or involuntary) of a party or product safety concerns. The amount of notice required for early termination generally ranges from immediately upon notice to 180 days after receipt of notice. Termination immediately upon notice is generally available where the other party files a voluntary bankruptcy petition or if a material safety issue arises with a product such that the medical risk/benefit is incompatible with the welfare of patients to continue to develop or commercialize the product. Termination with a notice period is generally available where an involuntary bankruptcy petition has been filed (and has not been dismissed) or a material breach by a party has occurred (and not been cured). Most of our alliance agreements also permit us to terminate without cause, which is typically exercisable with substantial advance written notice and is sometimes exercisable only after a specified period of time has elapsed after the alliance agreement is signed. Our alliances typically do not otherwise contain provisions that provide the other party the right to terminate the alliance. 
    
  In general, we do not retain any rights to a product brought to an alliance by another party or to the other party s intellectual property after an alliance terminates. The loss of rights to one or more products that are marketed and sold by us pursuant to an alliance could be material to our results of operations and cash flows could be material to our financial condition and liquidity. As is customary in the pharmaceutical industry, the terms of our alliances generally are co-extensive with the exclusivity period and may vary on a country-by-country basis. 
    
  Our most significant current alliances for both currently marketed products and investigational compounds are described below. Refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   3  . Alliances  for additional information on our alliance agreements. 
    9 

Otsuka 
    
  We maintain a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka to co-develop and co-promote   Abilify*  , excluding certain Asian countries. The U.S. portion of the agreement expired in April 2015. The agreement expired in all EU countries in June 2014 and in each other non-U.S. country where we have the exclusive right to sell   Abilify*  , the agreement expires on the later of April 20, 2015 or loss of exclusivity in any such country. BMS received a share of U.S. net sales of   Abilify*   based on a tiered structure.  
    
  BMS and Otsuka also have an alliance for   Sprycel   in the U.S., Japan and the EU (the Oncology Territory). In February 2015, the co-promotion agreement with Otsuka was terminated in Japan.   Ixempra*   (ixabepilone) was included in the above alliance prior to BMS's divestiture of that business in 2015. A fee is paid to Otsuka based on the combined annual net sales of   Sprycel and Ixempra*   in the Oncology Territory (including post divestiture   Ixempra*   sales). 
    
  Gilead 
    
  We have joint ventures with Gilead to develop and commercialize   Atripla*   in the U.S., Canada and in Europe. The Company and Gilead share responsibility for certain activities related to the commercialization of   Atripla*   in the U.S., Canada, throughout the EU and certain other European countries. Gilead recognizes 100% of   Atripla*   revenues in the U.S., Canada and most countries in Europe. Alliance and other revenues recognized for   Atripla*   include only the bulk efavirenz component of   Atripla*   which is calculated differently in the EU and the U.S. following the loss of exclusivity of   Sustiva   in the EU in 2013. The alliance and other revenues are deferred and the related alliance receivable is not recognized until   Atripla*   is sold to third-party customers.  
    
  The collaboration agreement governing the commercialization of   Atripla*   in the U.S. and Canada will continue until terminated by mutual agreement of the parties or otherwise as described below. In the event of a material breach by one party of the collaboration agreement, the non-breaching party may terminate the agreement only if the breaching party does not cure the material breach and both parties agree that it is both desirable and practicable to withdraw the combination product from the markets where it is commercialized.  At such time as one or more generic versions of a party s component product(s) are launched in the U.S., the other party will have the right to terminate the collaboration agreement and be in control of the joint venture and the commercialization of  the combination product, both in the U.S. and Canada; however, for three years the terminated party will continue to receive a percentage of the net product sales-based on the contribution of bulk components to   Atripla*  , and otherwise retains all rights to its own products. 
    
  In Europe, following the 2013 loss of exclusivity of   Sustiva   and effective January 1, 2014, the percentage of   Atripla  * net sales in Europe recognized by BMS is equal to the difference between the average net selling prices of   Atripla*   and   Truvada*  . This alliance will continue in Europe until either party terminates the arrangement or the last patent expiration occurs for   Atripla*  ,   Truvada*  , or   Sustiva. 
    
  In 2011, we entered into a licensing agreement with Gilead to develop and commercialize a fixed-dose combination containing   Reyataz   and Gilead s cobicistat, a pharmacoenhancing or  boosting  agent that increases blood levels of certain HIV medicines to potentially allow for one pill once daily dosing.   Evotaz   was approved by the FDA in January 2015 and the European Commission (EC) in July 2015. 
    
  Lilly 
    
  BMS had a commercialization agreement with Lilly through Lilly s subsidiary ImClone for the co-development and promotion of   Erbitux  * in the U.S., Canada and Japan. In October 2015, BMS transferred its rights to   Erbitux*   in North America to Lilly in exchange for sales-based royalties. The transferred rights include, but are not limited to, full commercialization and manufacturing responsibilities.  
    
  BMS shared rights to   Erbitux*   in Japan under an agreement with Lilly and Merck KGaA and received 50% of the pretax profit from Merck KGaA s net sales of   Erbitux*   in Japan which was further shared equally with Lilly. BMS transferred its co-commercialization rights in Japan to Merck KGaA in 2015 in exchange for sales-based royalties through 2032. 
    
  AbbVie 
    
  BMS and AbbVie have an alliance for   Empliciti  . Under the terms of the alliance, BMS was granted exclusive global rights to co-develop and commercialize   Empliciti   from PDL BioPharma, Inc. (now part of AbbVie). Both parties are co-developing the product and AbbVie funds 20% of global development costs. BMS is solely responsible for supply, distribution and sales and marketing activities within the alliance and is the principal in the end customer product sales. AbbVie shares 30% of all profits and losses in the U.S. and will be paid tiered royalties on net sales of   Empliciti   outside of the U.S. In addition, AbbVie is entitled to receive milestone payments from BMS if certain regulatory events and sales thresholds are achieved. 
    
    10 

AstraZeneca    
    
  In February 2014, we sold to AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca) our diabetes business that was comprised of the global alliance with them, including all rights and ownership to   Onglyza*  ,   Farxiga*  ,   Bydureon*  ,   Byetta*  ,   Symlin*   and   Myalept*  . We and AstraZeneca terminated our existing alliance agreements in connection with the sale and entered into several new agreements, including a transitional services agreement, a supply agreement and a development agreement. Under the supply agreement, we continue to have some manufacturing responsibilities for   Onglyza*, Kombiglyze*   and   Farxiga*.  
    
  Pfizer 
    
  The Company and Pfizer are parties to a worldwide co-development and co-commercialization agreement for   Eliquis.   Pfizer funds between 50% and 60% of all development costs depending on the study. The companies share commercialization expenses and profits and losses equally on a global basis except for in certain countries where Pfizer commercializes   Eliquis   and pays BMS compensation based on a percentage of net sales. 
    
  Ono 
    
  BMS is the principal in the end customer product sales and has the exclusive right to develop, manufacture and commercialize   Opdivo   in all territories worldwide except Japan, South Korea and Taiwan (where Ono was responsible for all development and commercialization prior to the arrangement described below). Ono is entitled to receive royalties following regulatory approvals in all territories excluding the three countries listed above. Royalty rates on net sales are 4% in North America and 15% in all other applicable territories, subject to customary adjustments. 
    
  The alliance arrangement was expanded in July 2014 to establish collaboration activities in Japan, South Korea and Taiwan pertaining to   Opdivo   and several BMS compounds including   Yervoy  , lirilumab, urelumab and BMS-986016 (anti-LAG3). Both parties have the right and obligation to jointly develop and commercialize the compounds. BMS is responsible for supply of the products. Profits, losses and development costs are shared equally for all combination therapies involving compounds of both parties. Otherwise, sharing is 80% and 20% for activities involving only one of the party s compounds.  
    
  BMS and Ono also have an alliance to co-develop and co-commercialize   Orencia   in Japan. BMS is responsible for the order fulfillment and distribution of the intravenous formulation and Ono is responsible for the subcutaneous formulation. Both formulations are jointly promoted by both parties with assigned customer accounts and BMS is responsible for the product supply. A co-promotion fee of 60% is paid to the other party when a sale is made to that other party s assigned customer. 
    
  Other Alliances 
    
  In May 2013, BMS and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc (Reckitt) started a three-year alliance regarding several over-the-counter-products sold primarily in Mexico and Brazil. Reckitt received the right to sell, distribute and market the products through May 2016. BMS also granted Reckitt an option to acquire the trademarks, inventory and certain other assets exclusively related to the products at the end of the alliance period, including a BMS manufacturing facility located in Mexico, at a price determined primarily based on a multiple of net sales from May 2014 through May 2016. In July 2015, Reckitt notified BMS that it was exercising its option. Substantially all employees at the facility are expected to be transferred to Reckitt. The closing is expected to occur in May 2016.  
    
  Other Licensing Arrangements 
    
  In addition to the alliances described above, we have other in-licensing and out-licensing arrangements. With respect to in-licenses, we have agreements with Novartis for   Reyataz   and with Merck for efavirenz, among others. We also own certain compounds out-licensed to third parties for development and commercialization, including those obtained from our acquisitions. We are entitled to receive milestone payments as these compounds move through the regulatory process and royalties based on net product sales, if and when the products are commercialized. 
    11 

Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity 
    
  We own or license a number of patents in the U.S. and foreign countries primarily covering our products. We have also developed many brand names and trademarks for our products. We consider the overall protection of our patents, trademarks, licenses and other intellectual property rights to be of material value and act to protect these rights from infringement. 
    
  In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. A product s market exclusivity is generally determined by two forms of intellectual property: patent rights held by the innovator company and any regulatory forms of exclusivity to which the innovative drug is entitled. 
    
  Patents are a key determinant of market exclusivity for most branded pharmaceuticals. Patents provide the innovator with the right to exclude others from practicing an invention related to the medicine. Patents may cover, among other things, the active ingredient(s), various uses of a drug product, pharmaceutical formulations, drug delivery mechanisms and processes for (or intermediates useful in) the manufacture of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the expiration dates of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, its scope of coverage and the availability of meaningful legal remedies in the country. 
    
  Market exclusivity is also sometimes influenced by regulatory intellectual property rights. Many developed countries provide certain non-patent incentives for the development of medicines. For example, in the U.S., the EU, Japan, and certain other countries, regulatory intellectual property rights are offered as incentives for research on medicines for rare diseases, or orphan drugs, and on medicines useful in treating pediatric patients. These incentives can extend the market exclusivity period on a product beyond the patent term. 
    
  The U.S., EU, Japan and China also each provide for a minimum period of time after the approval of a new drug during which the regulatory agency may not rely upon the innovator s data to approve a competitor s generic copy, or data protection. In some regions such as China, however, it is questionable whether such data protection laws are enforceable. In certain markets where patent protection and other forms of market exclusivity may have expired, data protection can be of particular importance. However, most regulatory forms of exclusivity do not prevent a competitor from gaining regulatory approval prior to the expiration of regulatory data exclusivity on the basis of the competitor s own safety and efficacy data on its drug, even when that drug is identical to that marketed by the innovator. 
    
  Specific aspects of the law governing market exclusivity and data protection for pharmaceuticals vary from country to country. The following summarizes key exclusivity rules in markets representing significant sales: 
    
  United States 
    
  In the U.S., most of our key products are protected by patents with varying terms depending on the type of patent and the filing date. A significant portion of a product s patent life, however, is lost during the time it takes an innovative company to develop and obtain regulatory approval of a new drug. As compensation at least in part for the lost patent term, the innovator may, depending on a number of factors, extend the expiration date of one patent up to a maximum term of five years, provided that the extension cannot cause the patent to be in effect for more than 14 years from the date of drug approval. 
    
  A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical in the U.S. must submit a complete set of safety and efficacy data to the FDA. If the innovative pharmaceutical is a chemical, the company files a New Drug Application (NDA). If the medicine is a biological product, a BLA is filed. The type of application filed affects regulatory exclusivity rights. 
    
  Chemical products 
    
  A competitor seeking to launch a generic substitute of a chemical innovative drug in the U.S. must file an abbreviated New Drug Application (aNDA) with the FDA. In the aNDA, the generic manufacturer needs to demonstrate only  bioequivalence  between the generic substitute and the approved NDA drug. The aNDA relies upon the safety and efficacy data previously filed by the innovator in its NDA. 
    
  An innovator company is required to list certain of its patents covering the medicine with the FDA in what is commonly known as the Orange Book. Absent a successful patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an aNDA until after the innovator s listed patents expire. However, after the innovator has marketed its product for four years, a generic manufacturer may file an aNDA and allege that one or more of the patents listed in the Orange Book under an innovator s NDA is either invalid or not infringed. This allegation is commonly known as a Paragraph IV certification. The innovator then must decide whether to file a patent infringement suit against the generic manufacturer. From time to time, aNDAs, including Paragraph IV certifications, are filed with respect to certain of our products. We evaluate these aNDAs on a case-by-case basis and, where warranted, file suit against the generic manufacturer to protect our patent rights. 
    
    12 

In addition to benefiting from patent protection, certain innovative pharmaceutical products can receive periods of regulatory exclusivity. An NDA that is designated as an orphan drug can receive seven years of exclusivity for the orphan indication. During this time period, neither NDAs nor aNDAs for the same drug product can be approved for the same orphan use. A company may also earn six months of additional exclusivity for a drug where specific clinical trials are conducted at the written request of the FDA to study the use of the medicine to treat pediatric patients, and submission to the FDA is made prior to the loss of basic exclusivity. 
    
  Medicines approved under an NDA can also receive several types of regulatory data protection. An innovative chemical pharmaceutical is entitled to five years of regulatory data protection in the U.S., during which competitors cannot file with the FDA for approval of generic substitutes. If an innovator s patent is challenged, as described above, a generic manufacturer may file its aNDA after the fourth year of the five-year data protection period. A pharmaceutical drug product that contains an active ingredient that has been previously approved in an NDA, but is approved in a new formulation, but not for the drug itself, or for a new indication on the basis of new clinical trials, receives three years of data protection for that formulation or indication. 
    
  Biologic products 
    
  The U.S. healthcare legislation enacted in 2010 created an approval pathway for biosimilar versions of innovative biological products that did not previously exist. Prior to that time, innovative biologics had essentially unlimited regulatory exclusivity. Under the new regulatory mechanism, the FDA can approve products that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative biologics on the basis of less extensive data than is required by a full BLA. After an innovator has marketed its product for four years, any manufacturer may file an application for approval of a  biosimilar  version of the innovator product. However, although an application for approval of a biosimilar may be filed four years after approval of the innovator product, qualified innovative biological products will receive 12 years of regulatory exclusivity, meaning that the FDA may not approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative biological product was first approved by the FDA. The law also provides a mechanism for innovators to enforce the patents that protect innovative biological products and for biosimilar applicants to challenge the patents. Such patent litigation may begin as early as four years after the innovative biological product is first approved by the FDA. 
    
  In the U.S., the increased likelihood of generic and biosimilar challenges to innovators  intellectual property has increased the risk of loss of innovators  market exclusivity. First, generic companies have increasingly sought to challenge innovators  basic patents covering major pharmaceutical products. Second, statutory and regulatory provisions in the U.S. limit the ability of an innovator company to prevent generic and biosimilar drugs from being approved and launched while patent litigation is ongoing. As a result of all of these developments, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for a particular product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity. 
    
  European Union 
    
  Patents on pharmaceutical products are generally enforceable in the EU and, as in the U.S., may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process. Such extensions are granted on a country-by-country basis. 
    
  The primary route we use to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the EU is through the  centralized procedure.  This procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a MAA with the EMA. After the EMA evaluates the MAA, it provides a recommendation to the EC and the EC then approves or denies the MAA. It is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the EU through a  mutual recognition procedure,  in which an application is made to a single member state, and if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, then the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states. 
    
  After obtaining marketing authorization approval, a company must obtain pricing and reimbursement for the pharmaceutical product, which is typically subject to member state law. In certain EU countries, this process can take place simultaneously while the product is marketed but in other EU countries, this process must be completed before the company can market the new product. The pricing and reimbursement procedure can take months and sometimes years to complete. 
    
  Throughout the EU, all products for which marketing authorizations have been filed after October/November 2005 are subject to an  8+2+1  regime. Eight years after the innovator has received its first community authorization for a medicinal product, a generic company may file a marketing authorization application for that product with the health authorities. If the marketing authorization application is approved, the generic company may not commercialize the product until after either 10 or 11 years have elapsed from the initial marketing authorization granted to the innovator. The possible extension to 11 years is available if the innovator, during the first eight years of the marketing authorization, obtains an additional indication that is of significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing treatments. For products that were filed prior to October/November 2005, there is a 10-year period of data protection under the centralized procedures and a period of either six or 10 years under the mutual recognition procedure (depending on the member state). 
    13 

In contrast to the U.S., patents in the EU are not listed with regulatory authorities. Generic versions of pharmaceutical products can be approved after data protection expires, regardless of whether the innovator holds patents covering its drug. Thus, it is possible that an innovator may be seeking to enforce its patents against a generic competitor that is already marketing its product. Also, the European patent system has an opposition procedure in which generic manufacturers may challenge the validity of patents covering innovator products within nine months of grant. 
    
  In general, EU law treats chemically-synthesized drugs and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and data protection. In addition to the relevant legislation and annexes related to biologic medicinal products, the EMA has issued guidelines that outline the additional information to be provided for biosimilar products, also known as generic biologics, in order to review an application for marketing approval. 
    
  Japan 
    
  In Japan, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded eight years of data exclusivity for approved indications and dosage. Patents on pharmaceutical products are enforceable. Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after data exclusivity and patent expirations. As in the U.S., patents in Japan may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process. 
    
  In general, Japanese law treats chemically-synthesized and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity. 
    
  China 
    
  In China, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded six years of data exclusivity for approved indications and dosage. There is uncertainty about China s exclusivity laws which has resulted in generic competition in the China market. Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after data exclusivity and patent expirations. Currently, unlike the U.S., China has no patent term restoration to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory process. 
    
  In general, Chinese law treats chemically-synthesized and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity. 
    
  Rest of the World 
    
  In countries outside of the U.S., the EU, Japan and China, there is a wide variety of legal systems with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity of pharmaceuticals. Most other developed countries utilize systems similar to either the U.S. or the EU. Among developing countries, some have adopted patent laws and/or regulatory exclusivity laws, while others have not. Some developing countries have formally adopted laws in order to comply with World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments, but have not taken steps to implement these laws in a meaningful way. Enforcement of WTO actions is a long process between governments, and there is no assurance of the outcome. Thus, in assessing the likely future market exclusivity of our innovative drugs in developing countries, we take into account not only formal legal rights but political and other factors as well. 
      
  Marketing, Distribution and Customers 
    
  We promote the appropriate use of our products directly to healthcare professionals and providers such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, technologists, hospitals, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) and Managed Care Organizations (MCOs). We also provide information about the appropriate use of our products to consumers in the U.S. through direct-to-consumer print, radio, television, and digital advertising and promotion. In addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public about our innovative medical research and corporate mission. For a discussion of the regulation of promotion and marketing of pharmaceuticals, refer to   Government Regulation and Price Constraints  below. 
    
  Through our field sales and medical organizations, we explain the risks and benefits of the approved uses of our products to medical professionals. We work to gain access for our products on formularies and reimbursement plans (lists of recommended or approved medicines and other products), including Medicare Part D plans, by providing information about the clinical profiles of our products. Our marketing and sales of prescription pharmaceuticals is limited to the approved uses of the particular product, but we continue to develop scientific data and other information about our products and provide such information in response to unsolicited inquiries from doctors, other medical professionals and managed care organizations. 
    
    14 

Our operations include several marketing and sales organizations. Each product marketing organization is supported by a sales force, which may be responsible for selling one or more products. We also have marketing organizations that focus on certain classes of customers such as managed care entities or certain types of marketing tools, such as digital or consumer communications. Our sales forces focus on communicating information about new products or new uses, as well as established products, and promotion to physicians is increasingly targeted at physician specialists who treat the patients in need of our medicines. 
    
  Our products are sold principally to wholesalers, and to a lesser extent, directly to distributors, retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies. Gross revenues to the three largest pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. as a percentage of our global gross revenues were as follows: 

Our U.S. business has Inventory Management Agreements (IMAs) with substantially all of our direct wholesaler and distributor customers that allow us to monitor U.S. wholesaler inventory levels and requires those wholesalers and distributors to maintain inventory levels that are no more than one month of their demand. The IMAs, including those with our three largest wholesalers, expire in December 2017 subject to certain termination provisions. 
    
  In a number of defined countries outside of the U.S., we have established a full scale distributor model to make medically necessary drugs available to patients. We continue to own the marketing authorization and trademarks for these products, but have contracted the services of a full-service distributor to provide distribution and logistics; regulatory and pharmacovigilance; and sales, advertising and promotion for certain products. Sales in these distributor-based countries represented approximately 2% of the Company s total revenues in   2015  . 
      
  Competition 
    
  The markets in which we compete are generally broad based and highly competitive. We compete with other worldwide research-based drug companies, many smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus and generic drug manufacturers. Important competitive factors include product efficacy, safety and ease of use, price and demonstrated cost-effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, product labeling, customer service and research and development of new products and processes. Sales of our products can be impacted by new studies that indicate a competitor s product is safer or more effective for treating a disease or particular form of disease than one of our products. Our revenues also can be impacted by additional labeling requirements relating to safety or convenience that may be imposed on products by the FDA or by similar regulatory agencies in different countries. If competitors introduce new products and processes with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products can be subject to progressive price reductions or decreased volume of sales, or both. 
    
  Generic Competition 
    
  One of the biggest competitive challenges that we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. In the U.S. and the EU, the regulatory approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy of the innovator product. As a result, generic pharmaceutical manufacturers typically invest far less in research and development than research-based pharmaceutical companies and therefore can price their products significantly lower than branded products. Accordingly, when a branded product loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the product. Upon the expiration or loss of market exclusivity on a product, we can lose the major portion of revenues of that product in a very short period of time. 
    
  The rate of revenues decline of a product after the expiration of exclusivity varies by country. In general, the decline in the U.S. market is more rapid than in most other developed countries, though we have observed rapid declines in a number of EU countries as well. Also, the declines in developed countries tend to be more rapid than in developing countries. The rate of revenues decline after the expiration of exclusivity has also historically been influenced by product characteristics. For example, drugs that are used in a large patient population (e.g., those prescribed by key primary care physicians) tend to experience more rapid declines than drugs in specialized areas of medicine (e.g., oncology). Drugs that are more complex to manufacture (e.g., sterile injectable products) usually experience a slower decline than those that are simpler to manufacture. 
    
  In certain countries outside the U.S., patent protection is weak or nonexistent and we must compete with generic versions shortly after we launch our innovative products. In addition, generic pharmaceutical companies may introduce a generic product before exclusivity has expired, and before the resolution of any related patent litigation. For more information about market exclusivity, refer to   Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity  above. 
    15 

We believe our long-term competitive position depends upon our success in discovering and developing innovative, cost-effective products that serve unmet medical needs, together with our ability to manufacture products efficiently and to market them effectively in a highly competitive environment. 
      
  Managed Care Organizations 
    
  The growth of MCOs in the U.S. is also a major factor in the healthcare marketplace. Over half of the U.S. population now participates in some version of managed care. MCOs can include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health-maintenance organizations, Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, alliances of hospitals and physicians and other physician organizations. Those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, larger entities, thus enhancing their purchasing strength and importance to us. 
    
  To successfully compete for business with MCOs, we must often demonstrate that our products offer not only medical benefits but also cost advantages as compared with other forms of care. Most new products that we introduce compete with other products already on the market or products that are later developed by competitors. As noted above, generic drugs are exempt from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy and, as such, often have lower costs than brand-name drugs. MCOs that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics for this reason. Many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in many cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be essentially equivalent to a brand-name drug. The substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. 
    
  Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the MCO patient population. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete aggressively to have their products included. Where possible, companies compete for inclusion based upon unique features of their products, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use or fewer side effects. A lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. Products that demonstrate fewer therapeutic advantages must compete for inclusion based primarily on price. We have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on MCO formularies. 
      
  Government Regulation and Price Constraints 
    
  The pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive global regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDC Act), other Federal statutes and regulations, various state statutes and regulations, and laws and regulations of foreign governments govern to varying degrees the testing, approval, production, labeling, distribution, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information, and promotion of our products. The lengthy process of laboratory and clinical testing, data analysis, manufacturing, development, and regulatory review necessary for required governmental approvals is extremely costly and can significantly delay product introductions in a given market. Promotion, marketing, manufacturing and distribution of pharmaceutical products are extensively regulated in all major world markets. In addition, our operations are subject to complex Federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations. We anticipate that the laws and regulations affecting the manufacture and sale of current products and the introduction of new products will continue to require substantial scientific and technical effort, time and expense as well as significant capital investments. 
    
  Of particular importance is the FDA in the U.S. It has jurisdiction over virtually all of our activities and imposes requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of our products. In many cases, the FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the U.S. 
    
  The FDA mandates that drugs be manufactured, packaged and labeled in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) established by the FDA. In complying with cGMP regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in production, recordkeeping and quality control to ensure that products meet applicable specifications and other requirements to ensure product safety and efficacy. The FDA periodically inspects our drug manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with applicable cGMP requirements. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements subjects us to possible legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product or voluntary recall of a product. Adverse experiences with the use of products must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of market restrictions through labeling changes or product removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy occur following approval. 
    
  The Federal government has extensive enforcement powers over the activities of pharmaceutical manufacturers, including authority to withdraw or delay product approvals, commence actions to seize and prohibit the sale of unapproved or non-complying products, to halt manufacturing operations that are not in compliance with cGMPs, and to impose or seek injunctions, voluntary recalls, civil, monetary and criminal penalties. Such a restriction or prohibition on sales or withdrawal of approval of products marketed by us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. 
    
    16 

Marketing authorization for our products is subject to revocation by the applicable governmental agencies. In addition, modifications or enhancements of approved products or changes in manufacturing locations are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals, which may or may not be received and which may be subject to a lengthy application process. 
    
  The distribution of pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act (PDMA) as part of the FDC Act, which regulates such activities at both the Federal and state level. Under the PDMA and its implementing regulations, states are permitted to require registration of manufacturers and distributors who provide pharmaceuticals even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. States are also permitted to adopt regulations limiting the distribution of product samples to licensed practitioners. The PDMA also imposes extensive licensing, personnel recordkeeping, packaging, quantity, labeling, product handling and facility storage and security requirements intended to prevent the sale of pharmaceutical product samples or other product diversions. 
    
  Our medicines are priced based on a number of factors, including the value of scientific innovation for patients and society in the context of overall health care spend, economic factors impacting health care systems  ability to provide appropriate and sustainable access and the necessity to sustain our investment in innovation platforms to address serious unmet medical needs. Central to price is the clinical value that this innovation brings to the market, the current landscape of alternative treatment options, the goal of ensuring appropriate patient access to this innovation and sustaining investment in innovative platforms. We continue to explore innovative pricing approaches to ensure that patients have access to our medicines. Enhancing patient access to medicines is a priority for us. We are focused on offering creative tiered pricing, voluntary licensing, reimbursement support and patient assistance programs to optimize access while protecting innovation; advocating for sustainable healthcare policies and infrastructure, leveraging advocacy/payer s input and utilizing partnerships as appropriate; and improving access to care and supportive services for vulnerable patients through partnerships and demonstration projects. 
    
  The FDA Amendments Act of 2007 imposed additional obligations on pharmaceutical companies and delegated more enforcement authority to the FDA in the area of drug safety. Key elements of this legislation give the FDA authority to (1) require that companies conduct post-marketing safety studies of drugs, (2) impose certain drug labeling changes relating to safety, (3) mandate risk mitigation measures such as the education of healthcare providers and the restricted distribution of medicines, (4) require companies to publicly disclose data from clinical trials and (5) pre-review television advertisements. 
    
  The marketing practices of all U.S. pharmaceutical manufacturers are subject to Federal and state healthcare laws that are used to protect the integrity of government healthcare programs. The Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (OIG) oversees compliance with applicable Federal laws, in connection with the payment for products by government funded programs (primarily Medicaid and Medicare). These laws include the Federal anti-kickback statute, which criminalizes the offering of something of value to induce the recommendation, order or purchase of products or services reimbursed under a government healthcare program. The OIG has issued a series of Guidances to segments of the healthcare industry, including the 2003 Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers (the OIG Guidance), which includes a recommendation that pharmaceutical manufacturers, at a minimum, adhere to the PhRMA Code, a voluntary industry code of marketing practices. We subscribe to the PhRMA Code, and have implemented a compliance program to address the requirements set forth in the OIG Guidance and our compliance with the healthcare laws. Failure to comply with these healthcare laws could subject us to administrative and legal proceedings, including actions by Federal and state government agencies. Such actions could result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and injunctive remedies, the impact of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. 
    
  We are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal and state regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services in the U.S. We are also licensed by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency to procure and produce controlled substances. We are, therefore, subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these organizations. Such actions may result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies. 
    
  Our activities outside the U.S. are also subject to regulatory requirements governing the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products. These regulatory requirements vary from country to country. Whether or not FDA approval or approval of the EC has been obtained for a product, approval of the product by comparable regulatory authorities of countries outside of the U.S. or the EU, as the case may be, must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those countries. The approval process may be more or less rigorous from country to country, and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the U.S. Approval in one country does not assure that a product will be approved in another country. 
    
  In many markets outside the U.S., we operate in an environment of government-mandated, cost-containment programs. Several governments have placed restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic drugs and/or enacted across-the-board price cuts as methods of cost control. In most EU countries, for example, the government regulates pricing of a new product at launch often through direct price controls, international price comparisons, controlling profits and/or reference pricing. In other markets, such as the UK and Germany, the government does not set pricing restrictions at launch, but pricing freedom  
    17 

is subsequently limited, such as by the operation of a profit and price control plan in the UK and by the operation of a reference price system in Germany. Companies also face significant delays in market access for new products, mainly in France, Spain, Italy and Belgium, and more than two years can elapse before new medicines become available on some national markets. Additionally, member states of the EU have regularly imposed new or additional cost containment measures for pharmaceuticals such as volume discounts, cost caps, cost sharing for increases in excess of prior year costs for individual products or aggregated market level spending, outcome-based pricing schemes and free products for a portion of the expected therapy period. In recent years, Italy, for example, has imposed mandatory price decreases. The existence of price differentials within the EU due to the different national pricing and reimbursement laws leads to significant parallel trade flows. 
    
  The U.S. healthcare industry is subject to various government-imposed regulations authorizing prices or price controls that have and will continue to have an impact on our total revenues. We participate in state government Medicaid programs, as well as certain other qualifying Federal and state government programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to participating state and local government entities. We also participate in government programs that specify discounts to certain government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. These entities receive minimum discounts based off a defined  non-federal average manufacturer price  for purchases. As a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (HR 3590) and the reconciliation bill containing a package of changes to the healthcare bill, we have experienced and will continue to experience additional financial costs and certain other changes to our business. For example, minimum rebates on our Medicaid drug sales have increased from 15.1 percent to 23.1 percent and Medicaid rebates have also been extended to drugs used in risk-based Medicaid managed care plans. In addition, we extend discounts to certain critical access hospitals, cancer hospitals and other covered entities as required by the expansion of the 340B Drug Pricing Program under the Public Health Service Act. 
    
  We are required to provide a 50 percent discount on our brand-name drugs to patients who fall within the Medicare Part D coverage gap, also referred to as the  donut hole  and pay an annual non-tax-deductible fee to the federal government based on an allocation of our market share of branded drug sales to certain government programs including Medicare, Medicaid, Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense and TRICARE. 
    
  For further discussion of these rebates and programs, refer to  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Total Revenues  and   Critical Accounting Policies.  
      
  Sources and Availability of Raw Materials 
    
  In general, we purchase our raw materials and supplies required for the production of our products in the open market. For some products, we purchase our raw materials and supplies from one source (the only source available to us) or a single source (the only approved source among many available to us), thereby requiring us to obtain such raw materials and supplies from that particular source. We attempt, if possible, to mitigate our raw material supply risks, through inventory management and alternative sourcing strategies. For further discussion of sourcing, refer to   Manufacturing and Quality Assurance  below and discussions of particular products. 
      
  Manufacturing and Quality Assurance 
    
  We operate and manage our manufacturing network in a manner that permits us to improve efficiency while maintaining flexibility to reallocate manufacturing capacity. Pharmaceutical production processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely from product to product. Given that shifting or adding manufacturing capacity can be a lengthy process requiring significant capital and other expenditures as well as regulatory approvals, we maintain and operate our flexible manufacturing network, consisting of internal and external resources that minimize unnecessary product transfers and inefficient uses of manufacturing capacity. For further discussion of the regulatory impact on our manufacturing, refer to   Government Regulation and Price Constraints  above. 
    
  Our pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities are located in the U.S., Puerto Rico, France, Italy, Ireland, Japan, Mexico and China and require significant ongoing capital investment for both maintenance and compliance with increasing regulatory requirements. In addition, as our product line changes over the next several years, we expect to continue modification of our existing manufacturing network to meet complex processing standards that may be required for newly introduced products, including biologics. Biologics manufacturing involves more complex processes than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. The FDA approved our large scale multi-product bulk biologics manufacturing facility in Devens, Massachusetts in May 2012 and we continue to make capital investments in this facility. We are building a new large-scale biologics manufacturing facility in Cruiserath, Ireland. 
    
  We rely on third parties to manufacture or supply us with all or a portion of the active ingredients necessary for us to manufacture various products, including   Baraclude  , the   Sustiva   Franchise,   Yervoy, Opdivo  ,   Reyataz  ,   Orencia   and   Eliquis.   Beginning in October 2015, following the transfer of our rights to   Erbitux*   in North America to Lilly, Lilly assumed manufacturing responsibilities for   Erbitux*  .     To maintain a stable supply of these products, we take a variety of actions including inventory management and maintenance of additional quantities of materials, when possible, designed to provide for a reasonable level of these ingredients to be held by the third-party supplier, us or both, so that our manufacturing operations are not interrupted. As an additional protection, in some cases, we take steps to maintain an  
    18 

approved back-up source where available. For example, we will rely on the capacity of our Devens, Massachusetts facility and the capacity available at our third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture   Orencia  . 
    
  If we or any third-party manufacturer that we rely on for existing or future products is unable to maintain a stable supply of products, operate at sufficient capacity to meet our order requirements, comply with government regulations for manufacturing pharmaceuticals or meet the complex processing requirements for biologics, our business performance and prospects could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if we or any of our third-party suppliers were to experience extended plant shutdowns or substantial unplanned increases in demand or suspension of manufacturing for regulatory reasons, we could experience an interruption in supply of certain products or product shortages until production could be resumed or expanded. 
    
  In connection with divestitures, licensing arrangements or distribution agreements of certain of our products, or in certain other circumstances, we have entered into agreements under which we have agreed to supply such products to third parties. In addition to liabilities that could arise from our failure to supply such products under the agreements, these arrangements could require us to invest in facilities for the production of non-strategic products, result in additional regulatory filings and obligations or cause an interruption in the manufacturing of our own products. 
    
  Our success depends in great measure upon customer confidence in the quality of our products and in the integrity of the data that support their safety and effectiveness. Product quality arises from a total commitment to quality in all parts of our operations, including research and development, purchasing, facilities planning, manufacturing, and distribution. We maintain quality-assurance procedures relating to the quality and integrity of technical information and production processes. 
    
  Control of production processes involves detailed specifications for ingredients, equipment and facilities, manufacturing methods, processes, packaging materials and labeling. We perform tests at various stages of production processes and on the final product to ensure that the product meets regulatory requirements and our standards. These tests may involve chemical and physical chemical analyses, microbiological testing, or a combination of these along with other analyses. Quality control is provided by business unit/site quality assurance groups that monitor existing manufacturing procedures and systems used by us, our subsidiaries and third-party suppliers. 
      
  Environmental Regulation 
    
  Our facilities and operations are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water; the use, management and disposal of hazardous, radioactive and biological materials and wastes; and the cleanup of contamination. Pollution controls and permits are required for many of our operations, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal or revocation by the issuing authorities. 
    
  Our environment, health and safety group monitors our operations around the world, providing us with an overview of regulatory requirements and overseeing the implementation of our standards for compliance. We also incur operating and capital costs for such matters on an ongoing basis. We expended approximately $18 million in   2015  ,  $18 million in   2014   and $19 million in   2013   on capital projects undertaken specifically to meet environmental requirements. In addition, we invested in projects that reduce resource use of energy and water. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements and the permits required for our operations, we nevertheless could incur additional costs, including civil or criminal fines or penalties, clean-up costs, or third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, for violations or liabilities under these laws. 
    
  Many of our current and former facilities have been in operation for many years, and over time, we and other operators of those facilities have generated, used, stored or disposed of substances or wastes that are considered hazardous under Federal, state and/or foreign environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA). As a result, the soil and groundwater at or under certain of these facilities is or may be contaminated, and we may be required to make significant expenditures to investigate, control and remediate such contamination, and in some cases to provide compensation and/or restoration for damages to natural resources. Currently, we are involved in investigation and remediation at 17 current or former facilities. We have also been identified as a  potentially responsible party  (PRP) under applicable laws for environmental conditions at approximately 21 former waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third parties at which investigation and/or remediation activities are ongoing. 
    
  We may face liability under CERCLA and other Federal, state and foreign laws for the entire cost of investigation or remediation of contaminated sites, or for natural resource damages, regardless of fault or ownership at the time of the disposal or release. In addition, at certain sites we bear remediation responsibility pursuant to contractual obligations. Generally, at third-party operator sites involving multiple PRPs, liability has been or is expected to be apportioned based on the nature and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable PRPs. For additional information about these matters, refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   22  . Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.  
      
  Employees 
    
  As of December 31,   2015  , we employed approximately 25,000 people.  
    19 

Foreign Operations 
    
  We have significant operations outside the U.S. They are conducted both through our subsidiaries and through distributors. 
    
  For further discussion of our total revenues by geographic area refer to  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Total Revenues.  
    
  International operations are subject to certain risks, which are inherent in conducting business abroad, including, but not limited to, currency fluctuations, possible nationalization or expropriation, price and exchange controls, counterfeit products, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises and other restrictive governmental actions. Our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws on pricing or reimbursement for use of products. 
    
  Depending on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. The change in foreign exchange rates had a net unfavorable impact on the growth rate of revenues in   2015  . While we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on the growth rate of revenues, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments. Refer to the discussions under  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   10  . Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements.  
      
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Website 
    
  Our internet website address is   www.bms.com  . On our website, we make available, free of charge, our annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
    
  Information relating to corporate governance at Bristol-Myers Squibb, including our Principles of Integrity, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, (collectively, the  Codes ), Corporate Governance Guidelines, and information concerning our Executive Committee, Board of Directors, including Board Committees and Committee charters, and transactions in Bristol-Myers Squibb securities by directors and executive officers, is available on our website under the  Investors Corporate Governance  caption and in print to any stockholder upon request. Any waivers to the Codes by directors or executive officers and any material amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers will be posted promptly on our website. Information relating to stockholder services, including our Dividend Reinvestment Plan and direct deposit of dividends, is available on our website under the  Investors Stockholder Services  caption. In addition, information about our Sustainability programs is available on our website under the "Responsibility" caption. 
    
  We incorporate by reference certain information from parts of our proxy statement for the   2015   Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our proxy statement for the   2016   Annual Meeting of Stockholders and   2015   Annual Report will be available on our website under the  Investors SEC Filings  caption on or about   March 21, 2016  . 
                   Item 1A. 
    RISK FACTORS. 

Any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results, or credit ratings, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, could also impair our operations or financial condition. 
    
  We face intense competition from other manufacturers, including for both innovative medicines and lower-priced generic products. 
  BMS is dependent on the market access, uptake and expansion for marketed brands, new product introductions, new indications, product extensions and co-promotional activities with alliance partners, to deliver future growth. Competition is keen and includes (i) lower-priced generics and increasingly aggressive generic commercialization tactics, (ii) lower prices for other companies' products, real or perceived superior efficacy (benefit) or safety (risk) profiles, or other differentiating factors, (iii) technological advances and patents attained by our competitors, (iv) clinical study results from our products or a competitor s products that affect the value proposition for our products, (v) business combinations among our competitors and major third-party payers, and (vi) competing interests for external partnerships to develop and bring new products to markets.  
    
  We could lose market exclusivity of a product earlier than expected. 
  In the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product s commercial value is realized during its market exclusivity period. In the U.S. and in some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions are approved and marketed or when biosimilars are introduced (even if only for a competing product), there are usually very substantial and rapid declines in a product s revenues. 
    20 

Market exclusivity for our products is based upon patent rights and certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. The scope of our patent rights varies from country to country and may also be dependent on the availability of meaningful legal remedies in a country. The failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use or loss of such rights, could be material to us. In some countries, including certain EU member states, basic patent protections for our products may not exist because certain countries did not historically offer the right to obtain specific types of patents and/or we (or our licensors) did not file in those countries. In addition, the patent environment can be unpredictable and the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Absent relevant patent protection for a product, once the data exclusivity period expires, generic versions can be approved and marketed.  
    
  Generic and biosimilar product manufacturers as well as other groups seeking financial gain are also increasingly seeking to challenge patents before they expire, and we could face earlier-than-expected competition for any products at any time. Patents covering our key products have been and are likely to continue to be subject to patent litigation. In some cases, manufacturers may seek regulatory approval by submitting their own clinical trial data to obtain marketing approval or choose to launch a generic product  at risk  before the expiration of the applicable patent(s) and/or before the final resolution of related patent litigation. There is no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full time period that appears in the estimates disclosed in this Form 10-K. In addition, some countries, such as India, are allowing competitors to manufacture and sell competing generic products, which negatively impacts the protections afforded the Company. Lower-priced biosimilars for BMS biologic products or competing biologics could negatively impact our volumes and prices. 
    
  Increased pricing pressure and other restrictions in the U.S. and abroad from managed care organizations, institutional purchasers, and government agencies and programs, among others, could negatively affect our revenues and profit margins. 
  Our products continue to be subject to increasing pressures across the portfolio from market access, pricing and discounting and other restrictions in the U.S., the EU and other regions around the world, including from (i) rules and practices of managed care organizations and institutional and governmental purchasers; (ii) judicial decisions and changes in laws and regulations for federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid as well as U.S. healthcare reform, and other government actions and inquiries; (iii) the potential impact of changes to pharmaceutical reimbursement, and increased pricing pressure from Medicare Part D formularies, Medicare Part B reimbursement rates as well as commercial formularies in general; (iv) reimbursement delays; (v) government price erosion mechanisms across Europe and in other countries, resulting in deflation for pharmaceutical product pricing; (vi) collection delays in government-funded public hospitals outside the U.S. (vii) the impact on pricing from parallel trade across borders; (viii) other developments in technology and/or industry practices that could impact the reimbursement policies and practices of third-party payers; and (ix) inhibited market access due to real or perceived differences in value propositions for our products compared to competing products. 
    
  Third-party royalties represent a significant percentage of our pretax income and operating cash flow. 
  We have entered into several arrangements which entitle us to potential royalties from third parties for out-licensed intellectual property, commercialization rights and sales-based contingent proceeds related to the divestiture of businesses. In many of these arrangements we have minimal, if any, continuing involvement that contribute to the financial success of those activities. Royalties have continued to represent a significant percentage of our pretax income, including royalties related to our Sanofi alliance,     out-licensed intellectual property and contingent proceeds resulting from the divestiture of the diabetes and Erbitux* businesses. Pretax income generated from royalties were approximately $675 million in 2015. Our pretax income could be adversely affected if the royalty streams decline in future periods. 
    
  Failure to execute our business strategy could adversely impact our growth and profitability. 
  We may not be able to consistently maintain a rich pipeline, through internal R D programs or transactions with third parties, to support future revenue growth. Competition among pharmaceutical companies for acquisition and product licensing opportunities is intense, and we may not be able to locate suitable acquisition targets or licensing partners at reasonable prices, or successfully execute such transactions. We also may not be able to successfully realize the expected efficiencies and effectiveness from changes in our structure and operations to further our diversified specialty biopharmaceuticals strategy. If we are unable to support and grow our marketed products, successfully execute the launches of newly approved products, advance our late-stage pipeline, manage change and transformational issues, and manage our costs effectively, our operating results and financial condition could be negatively impacted.  
    
  Failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could affect our ability to successfully develop and commercialize products. 
  Our success is largely dependent on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical research and development, governmental regulation and commercialization. Competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense. We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain quality personnel or that the costs of doing so will not materially increase. 
    
    21 

The public announcement of data from our clinical studies, or those of our competitors, or news of any developments related to our, or our competitors', immuno-oncology products or late-stage compounds may cause significant volatility in our stock price.  If the development of any of our key immuno-oncology compounds, whether alone or as part of a combination therapy, is delayed or discontinued, our stock price could decline significantly. 
  We are focusing our efforts and resources in certain disease areas. With our more focused portfolio, investors are placing heightened scrutiny on some of our products or late-stage compounds. In particular, Opdivo is an important asset in our immuno-oncology portfolio. During 2015, we announced multiple regulatory milestones for Opdivo, a fully human monoclonal antibody that was approved as an anticancer treatment in non-small cell lung cancer, renal cell cancer and melanoma, and being investigated for other tumor types, alone or in combination with other approved cancer products such as Yervoy. In 2016, we expect to receive further news from ongoing clinical trials and health authorities. 
    
  The announcement of data from our clinical studies, or those of our competitors, or news of any developments related to our, or our competitors', immuno-oncology products or late-stage compounds, such as Opdivo, may cause significant volatility in our stock price. Furthermore, the announcement of any negative or unexpected data or the discontinuation of development of any of our key immuno-oncology compounds, whether alone or as part of a combination therapy, any delay in our anticipated timelines for filing for regulatory approval, or a significant advancement of a competitor, will likely cause our stock price to decline significantly. There is no assurance that data from our clinical studies will support a filing for regulatory approval or even if approved, that any of our key immuno-oncology compounds will become commercially successful for all approved indications. 
    
  We may experience difficulties or delays in the development and commercialization of new products. 
  Compounds or products may appear promising in development but fail to reach market within the expected or optimal timeframe, or at all. In addition, product extensions or additional indications may not be approved. Developing and commercializing new compounds and products include inherent risks and uncertainties, including (i) due to efficacy and safety concerns, delayed or denied regulatory approvals, delays or challenges with producing products on a commercial scale or excessive costs to manufacture them; (ii) failure to enter into or implement optimal alliances for the development and/or commercialization of new products; (iii) failure to maintain a consistent scope and variety of promising late-stage products; (iv) failure of one or more of our products to achieve or maintain commercial viability, (v) changes in regulatory approval processes may cause delays or denials of new product approvals. 
    
  Regulatory approval delays are especially common when a product is expected to have a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, as required by the FDA to address significant risk/benefit issues. The inability to bring a product to market or a significant delay in the expected approval and related launch date of a new product could negatively impact our revenues and earnings. In addition, if certain acquired pipeline programs (including in-process research and development (IPR D)) are canceled or we believe their commercial prospects have been reduced, we may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs. For example, in 2015, we recognized a $160 million IPRD impairment charge for an LPA1 antagonist and in 2014, we recognized a $310 million IPRD impairment charge for peginterferon lambda. Finally, losing key molecules and intermediaries or our compound library through a natural or man-made disaster or act of sabotage could negatively impact the product development cycle. 
    
  Any businesses or assets we acquire in the future may underperform, and we may not be able to successfully integrate them into our existing business. 
  We may continue to support our pipeline with compounds or products obtained through licensing and acquisitions. Future revenues, profits and cash flows of an acquired company s products, technologies and pipeline candidates, may not materialize due to lower product uptake, delayed or missed pipeline opportunities, the inability to capture expected synergies, increased competition, safety concerns, regulatory issues, supply chain problems or other factors beyond our control. Substantial difficulties, costs and delays could result from integrating our acquisitions, including for (i) R D, manufacturing, distribution, sales, marketing, promotion and information technology activities; (ii) policies, procedures, processes, controls and compliance; (iii) company cultures; (iv) compensation structures and other human resource activities; and (v) tax considerations. 
    
  We depend on several key products for most of our revenues, cash flows and earnings. 
  We have historically derived a majority of our revenue and earnings from several key products and while we are not as heavily dependent on one or two products as in past years, our dependence on the profitability of certain products is likely to continue. For instance, in 2015, Orencia, Eliquis, Sprycel and the Hepatitis C Franchise each represented approximately 10% or greater of consolidated revenues. We expect that growth products such as Opdivo and Eliquis will become an increasingly important part of our revenue base. A reduction in revenues from one or more of these products could significantly negatively impact our revenues, cash flows and earnings. 
    
  We could experience difficulties and delays in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products. 
  Our product supply and related patient access could be negatively impacted by, among other things: (i) product seizures or recalls or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (ii) our failure, or the failure of any of our suppliers, to comply with Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable regulations or quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing; (iii) manufacturing, quality assurance/quality control, supply problems or governmental approval delays; (iv) the failure of a sole source or single source supplier to provide us with the necessary raw materials, supplies or finished  
    22 

goods within a reasonable timeframe; (v) the failure of a third-party manufacturer to supply us with bulk active or finished product on time; (vi) construction or regulatory approval delays for new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for our biologics products, such as Opdivo; (vii) the failure to meet new and emerging regulations requiring products to be tracked throughout the distribution channels using unique identifiers to verify their authenticity in the supply chain; (viii) other manufacturing or distribution issues, including limits to manufacturing capacity and changes in the types of products produced, such as biologics, physical limitations or other business interruptions and (ix) disruption in supply chain continuity including from natural or man-made disasters at one of our facilities or at a critical supplier. 
    
  Changes in U.S. or foreign laws and regulations may negatively affect our revenues and profit margins. 
  We could become subject to new government laws and regulations, which could negatively affect our business, our operating results and the financial condition of our Company, such as (i) additional healthcare reform initiatives in the U.S. or in other countries, including additional mandatory discounts or fees; (ii) increasing tax revenues in the U.S. or other countries as a means to reduce debt by changing tax rates; limiting, phasing-out or eliminating deductions or tax credits; modifying tax collection processes; taxing certain tax havens; taxing certain excess income from intellectual property; changing rules for earnings repatriations; and changing other tax laws; (iii) new laws, regulations and judicial or other governmental decisions affecting pricing, drug reimbursement, receivable payments, and access or marketing within or across jurisdictions; (iv) changes in intellectual property law; (v) changes in accounting standards; (vi) increasing data privacy regulations and enforcement; (vii) emerging and new global regulatory requirements for reporting payments and other value transfers to healthcare professionals, and (viii) the potential impact of importation restrictions, legislative and/or other regulatory changes. 
    
  Product labeling changes for our marketed products could result in a negative impact on revenues and profit margins. 
  We or regulatory authorities may need to change the labeling for any pharmaceutical product, including after a product has been marketed for several years. These changes are often the result of additional data from post-marketing studies, head-to-head trials, adverse events reports, studies that identify biomarkers (objective characteristics that can indicate a particular response to a product or therapy) or other studies or post-marketing experience that produce important additional information about a product. New information added to a product s label can affect its risk-benefit profile, leading to potential recalls, withdrawals, or declining revenue, as well as product liability claims. Sometimes additional information from these studies identifies a portion of the patient population that may be non-responsive to a medicine or would be at higher risk of adverse reactions and labeling changes based on such studies may limit the patient population. The studies providing such additional information may be sponsored by us, but they could also be sponsored by competitors, insurance companies, government institutions, managed care organizations, scientists, investigators, or other interested parties. While additional safety and efficacy information from such studies assist us and healthcare providers in identifying the best patient population for each product, it can also negatively impact our revenues due to inventory returns and a more limited patient population going forward. Additionally, certain study results, especially from head-to-head trials, could affect a product s formulary listing, which could also adversely affect revenues. 
    
  Adverse outcomes in legal matters could negatively affect our business. 
  Current or future lawsuits, claims, proceedings and government investigations could preclude or delay the commercialization of our products or could adversely affect our operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition, after any possible insurance recoveries, where available. Such legal matters include (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) adverse decisions in litigation, including product liability and commercial cases; (iii) anti-bribery regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practice Act or UK Bribery Act, including compliance with ongoing reporting obligations to the government resulting from any settlements such as the civil settlement reached by the Company with the SEC in October 2015, (iv) recalls or withdrawals of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (v) the failure to fulfill obligations under supply contracts with the government and other customers; (vi) product pricing and promotional matters; (vii) lawsuits and claims asserting, or investigations into, violations of securities, antitrust, Federal and state pricing, consumer protection, data privacy and other laws; (viii) environmental, health, safety and sustainability matters; and (iv) tax liabilities. 
    
  We depend on third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations. 
  We rely on suppliers, vendors, outsourcing partners, alliance partners and other third parties to research, develop, manufacture, commercialize, co-promote and sell our products, manage certain marketing, selling, human resource, finance, information technology and other business unit and functional services, and meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations. Some third parties are located in markets subject to political and social risk, corruption, infrastructure problems and natural disasters, in addition to country specific privacy and data security risk given current legal and regulatory environments. The failure of any critical third party to meet its obligations, including for future royalty and milestone payments; adequately deploy business continuity plans in the event of a crisis; and/or satisfactorily resolve significant disagreements with us or address other factors, could have a material adverse impact on the Company s operations and results. In addition, if these third parties violate, or are alleged to have violated, any laws or regulations, including the local pharmaceutical code, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, U.K. Bribery Act and other similar laws and regulations, during the performance of their obligations for us, it is possible that we could suffer financial and reputational harm or other negative outcomes, including possible legal consequences. 
    
    23 

The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or stolen products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. 
  Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet our rigorous manufacturing and testing standards. A patient who receives a counterfeit drug may be at risk for a number of dangerous health consequences. Our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit drugs sold under our brand name. In addition, thefts of inventory at warehouses, plants or while in-transit, which are then not properly stored and are later sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation and our business. 
    
  We are increasingly dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including from cyber security and data leakage. 
  A significant breakdown, invasion, corruption, destruction or interruption of critical information technology systems or infrastructure, by our workforce, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. The ever-increasing use and evolution of technology, including cloud-based computing, creates opportunities for the unintentional dissemination or intentional destruction of confidential information stored in our systems, in non-encrypted portable media or storage devices. We could also experience a business interruption, theft of confidential information, or reputational damage from industrial espionage attacks, malware or other cyber-attacks, which may compromise our system infrastructure or lead to data leakage, either internally or at our third-party providers. Although the aggregate impact on our operations and financial condition has not been material to date, we have been the target of events of this nature and expect them to continue and possibly increase in frequency. We have invested in industry appropriate protections and monitoring practices of our data and information technology to reduce these risks and continue to monitor our systems on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats. There can be no assurance, however, that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches to our or our third-party providers  databases or systems that could adversely affect our business. 
    
  Social media platforms present risks and challenges. 
  The inappropriate and/or unauthorized use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications, including from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information from employees, patients, healthcare professionals or other stakeholders. In addition, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us on any social networking website could damage our reputation, brand image and goodwill. Further, the disclosure of non-public Company-sensitive information  by our workforce or others through external media channels could lead to information loss. Identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand presents new challenges. 
    
  Adverse changes in U.S., global, regional or local economic conditions could adversely affect our profitability. 
  Global economic risks pose significant challenges to a company s growth and profitability and are difficult to mitigate. The world s major economies hold historically-high debt levels and many are experiencing slow growth and high unemployment rates. Several risks lie ahead, including the management of the U.S. debt and the European sovereign debt. We have significant operations in Europe, including for manufacturing. We have exposure to customer credit risks in Europe, South America and other markets including from government-guaranteed hospital receivables in markets where payments are not received on time. In addition, future pension plan funding requirements continue to be sensitive to global economic conditions and the related impact on equity markets. We are also exposed to other commercial risks and economic factors over which we do not have any control, which could pose significant challenges to our underlying profitability. 
    
  Changes in foreign currency exchange, interest and tax rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and liquidity. 
  We have significant operations outside of the U.S. generating approximately   51%   of our revenues in 2015. As such, our revenues, earnings and cash flow are exposed to risk from a strengthening U.S. dollar against the euro, Japanese yen, Chinese renminbi, Canadian dollar and South Korean won, among others, which can be difficult to mitigate. Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge certain, but not all, underlying economic exposures. All of the financial instruments used, including derivatives, are subject to counterparty credit risk. In addition, the results of our operations could be negatively impacted by any member country exiting the eurozone monetary union or EU. We are also exposed to changes in interest rates. Our ability to access money markets and/or capital markets could be impeded if adverse liquidity market conditions occur. Debt ratings would be pressured if financial and clinical expectations are not met. 
    24 

Item 1B. 
    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. 

None. 
      
                 Item 2. 
    PROPERTIES. 

Our principal executive offices are located at 345 Park Avenue, New York, NY, where we lease approximately 81,000 square feet of floor space. We own or lease approximately 182 properties in 49 countries. 
  We manufacture products at 10 worldwide locations, all of which are owned by us. Our manufacturing locations and aggregate square feet of floor space by geographic area were as follows at December 31,   2015  : 

Portions of these manufacturing locations and the other properties owned or leased by us in the U.S. and elsewhere are used for research and development, administration, storage and distribution. For further information about our properties, refer to  Item 1. Business Manufacturing and Quality Assurance." 
      
                 Item 3. 
    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. 

Information pertaining to legal proceedings can be found in  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   22  . Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  and is incorporated by reference herein. 
      
                 Item 4. 
    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES. 

Not applicable. 
    25 

PART IA 
  Executive Officers of the Registrant 
  Listed below is information on our executive officers as of   February 12, 2016  . Executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors for an initial term, which continues until the first Board meeting following the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders, and thereafter, are elected for a one-year term or until their successors have been elected. All executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.                         Name and Current Position 
      
    Age 
      
    Employment History for the Past 5 Years 
      Giovanni Caforio, M.D.  
  Chief Executive Officer and Director 
  Member of the Leadership Team 
      
    51 

2010 to 2011   Senior Vice President, Oncology and Immunology, Global Commercialization 
  2011 to 2013   President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals 
  2013 to 2014   Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer 
  2014 to 2015   Chief Operating Officer and Director of the Company 
  2015 to present   Chief Executive Officer and Director of the Company 
      Charles Bancroft  
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
  Member of the Leadership Team 
      
    56 

2010 to 2011   Chief Financial Officer of the Company 
  2011 to present   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company 
      Emmanuel Blin  
  Senior Vice President and Head of Commercialization, Policy and Operations  
  Member of the Leadership Team 
      
    46 

2010 to 2013   President   General Manager, Japan 
  2013 to 2015   President, Global Commercialization 
  2015 to present   Senior Vice President, Head of Commercialization, Policy and Operations 
      Joseph C. Caldarella 
  Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller 
      
    60 

2010 to present   Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller 
    
      Francis Cuss, MB BChir, FRCP  
  Executive Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer 
  Member of the Leadership Team 
      
    61 

2010 to 2013   Senior Vice President, Research 
  2013 to present   Executive Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer 
      John E. Elicker 
  Senior Vice President, Public Affairs and Investor Relations 
  Member of the Leadership Team 
      
    56 

2010 to 2012   Senior Vice President, Investor Relations 
  2012 to present   Senior Vice President, Public Affairs and Investor Relations 
      Murdo Gordon 
  Senior Vice President and Head of Worldwide Markets 
  Member of the Leadership Team 
      
    49 

2010 to 2011   Senior Vice President, Access 
  2011 to 2013   Senior Vice President, Oncology and Immunology 
  2013 to 2015   President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals 
  2015 to present   Senior Vice President, Head of Worldwide Markets 
      Ann Powell Judge 
  Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources 
  Member of the Leadership Team 
      
    50 

2009 to 2013   Chief Human Resources Officer, Shire Pharmaceuticals 
  2013 to present   Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources 
      Sandra Leung  
  Executive Vice President and General Counsel 
  Member of the Leadership Team 
      
    55 

2007 to 2014   General Counsel and Corporate Secretary 
  2014 to 2015   Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary 
  2015 to present   Executive Vice President and General Counsel 
    
      Anne Nielsen 
  Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer Member of the Leadership Team 
      
    55 

2009 to 2013   Vice President and Associate General Counsel 2013 to 2013   Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel 2013 to present   Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer 
      Louis S. Schmukler 
  President, Global Manufacturing and Supply 
  Member of the Leadership Team 
      
    60 

2009 to 2011   Senior Vice President, Specialty/Biotechnology Operating Unit, Pfizer 
  2011 to present   President, Global Manufacturing and Supply 
      Paul von Autenried 
  Senior Vice President, Enterprise Services and Chief Information Officer 
  Member of the Leadership Team 
      
    54 

2007 to 2011   Vice President and Chief Information Officer 
  2011 to 2012   Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer 
  2012 to present   Senior Vice President, Enterprise Services and Chief Information Officer 

26 

PART II 
    
                   Item 5. 
    MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON STOCK AND OTHER STOCKHOLDER MATTERS. 

Market Prices 
  Bristol-Myers Squibb common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) (Symbol: BMY). A quarterly summary of the high and low market prices is presented below: 

Holders of Common Stock 
    
  The number of record holders of common stock at December 31,   2015   was 45,942. 
  The number of record holders is based upon the actual number of holders registered on our books at such date and does not include holders of shares in  street names  or persons, partnerships, associations, corporations or other entities identified in security position listings maintained by depository trust companies. 
  Dividends 
  Our Board of Directors declared the following quarterly dividends per share, which were paid in the periods indicated below: 

In December   2015  , our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.38 per share on our common stock which was paid on February 1, 2016 to shareholders of record as of January 4, 2016. The Board of Directors also declared a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share on our preferred stock, payable on March 1, 2016 to shareholders of record as of February 5, 2016. 
    
    27 

UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 
    
  The following table summarizes the surrenders of our equity securities during the 12 month period ended December 31,   2015  : 

(a) 
    Reflects the shares of common stock surrendered to the Company to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of awards under our long-term incentive program. 
              (b) 
    In May 2010, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $3.0 billion of common stock. In June 2012, the Board of Directors increased its authorization for the repurchase of common stock by an additional $3.0 billion. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date and we may consider future repurchases. 
       28 

Item 6. 
    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. 

Five Year Financial Summary 

(a) 
    For a discussion of items that affected the comparability of results for the years   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , refer to  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measures.  
              (b) 
    Includes current and non-current portion. 
       29 

Item 7.        MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 
      
  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
    
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, the Company, we, our or us) is a global specialty biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. 
    
  Our revenues increased by   4%   in 2015 as a result of recently launched products such as our Hepatitis C Franchise (including previously deferred revenue in France) and   Opdivo   (nivolumab) and continued sales growth in   Eliquis   (apixaban). These impacts were partially offset by the changes in foreign currency rates, expiration of our U.S. and European Union (EU) commercialization rights to   Abilify*   (aripiprazole), competitive pressures resulting from exclusivity losses and other factors for   Baraclude   (entecavir),   Reyataz   (atazanavir sulfate) and   Sustiva   (efavirenz) in certain markets and the expiration/transfer of certain licensing and royalty rights. 
    
  The decrease in GAAP earnings per share (EPS) from   $1.20   in 2014 to   $0.93   in 2015 was due to higher research and development expenses as a result of upfront payments for licensing and asset acquisitions of investigational compounds. The tax impact of specified items contributed to the changes in the effective tax rate, including the non-tax-deductible research and development charges for the acquisitions of Flexus Biosciences, Inc. (Flexus) and Cardioxyl Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Cardioxyl). After adjusting for specified items, the increase in non-GAAP EPS from   $1.85   in 2014 to   $2.01   in 2015 was primarily due to higher revenues. 
    
  Highlights 
  The following table summarizes our financial information: 

Our non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings and related EPS information, are adjusted to exclude specified items which represent certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other items impacting the comparability of financial results. For a detailed listing of all specified items and further information and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures refer to   Non-GAAP Financial Measures." 
    30 

Significant Product and Pipeline Approvals 
    
  We received over 100 approvals for new medicines and additional indications and formulations of currently marketed medicines including over 20 in major markets (the U.S., EU and Japan). The following is a summary of some of the more significant approvals received in 2015. 
                   Product 
    Date 
    Approvals 
      Opdivo 
    December 2015 
    Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare manufacturing and marketing approval for patients with unresectable, advanced or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), received by Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Ono). 
      November 2015 
    U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval as a single agent for the treatment of previously untreated patients with BRAF V600 wild-type unresectable or metastatic melanoma 
      November 2015 
    FDA approval for the treatment of previously treated patients with advanced (metastatic) renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
      October 2015 
    FDA approval for the treatment of previously treated patients with non-squamous (NSQ) NSCLC 
      July 2015 
    EU approval for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic squamous (SQ) NSCLC after prior chemotherapy 
      June 2015 
    EU approval for the treatment of both first-line and previously treated unresectable or metastatic melanoma patients, regardless of BRAF status 
      March 2015 
    FDA approval for the treatment of patients with advanced SQ NSCLC with progression on or after platinum-based chemotherapy 
      Opdivo  + 
  Yervoy   (ipilimumab) 
    September 2015 
    FDA approval for the treatment of patients with BRAF V600 wild-type unresectable or metastatic melanoma 
      Yervoy 
    October 2015 
    FDA approval for the adjuvant treatment of patients with cutaneous melanoma 
      July 2015 
    Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approval for first and second line treatment for unresectable malignant melanoma 
      Empliciti   (elotuzumab) 
    November 2015 
    FDA approval for the treatment of multiple myeloma as combination therapy with   Revlimid*   and dexamethasone in patients who have received one to three prior therapies 
      Hepatitis C Portfolio -   Daklinza   (daclatasvir) 
    July 2015 
    FDA approval for use with sofosbuvir for the treatment of patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype 3 

Refer to " Product and Pipeline Developments" for all of the developments in our marketed products and late-stage pipeline in 2015.  
      
  Strategy 
    
  We have transitioned to a specialty biopharmaceutical company, with a strategy designed to leverage both the reach and resources of a major pharmaceutical company as well as the entrepreneurial spirit and agility of a biotech firm. We are focused on discovering, developing and delivering innovative medicines that address serious unmet medical needs. Our four strategic priorities are to drive business performance, maintain our leadership in immuno-oncology, maintain a diversified portfolio both within and outside of immuno-oncology, and continue our disciplined approach to capital allocation, with business development as a top priority. 
    
  We are developing new medicines in the following core therapeutic areas: oncology, immuno-oncology, immunoscience, cardiovascular diseases, fibrosis and genetically defined diseases. We are pioneering innovative medicines in the area of immuno-oncology which unlock the body s own immune system to battle cancer.   Yervoy  , our first immuno-oncology agent, was introduced in 2011 for the treatment of metastatic melanoma. During 2015, we announced several significant clinical and regulatory milestones in the U.S. and EU for   Opdivo  , a programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1) immune checkpoint inhibitor. Within 12 months of   Opdivo's   first approval in the U.S. for metastatic melanoma in late December 2014, we worked with unprecedented speed with the FDA and received five additional U.S. approvals for indications across three different tumor types, transforming cancer care in advanced NSCLC, melanoma and RCC. As of the end of 2015,   Opdivo   was approved in 43 countries. We continue to invest significantly in our deep pipeline of innovative medicines covering a broad array of cancers and have entered into several collaboration agreements to research and develop   Opdivo   and other approved or investigational oncology agents in combination regimens. Additionally in 2015, we enhanced our portfolio by acquiring rights to novel assets across several therapeutic areas including cardiovascular diseases and fibrosis. 
    
  We are evolving our commercial model and growing our marketed product portfolio in a manner consistent with our overall strategy. In oncology, we are building on the rapid commercial acceptance of   Opdivo  , which had revenues of approximately $900 million, and the continued success of   Yervoy   and   Sprycel   (dasatinib). Beyond oncology, we remain strongly committed to   Orencia   (abatacept) and   Eliquis  , each with revenues of approximately $1.9 billion in 2015. In 2015, we received U.S. approval for   Daklinza   for use with sofosbuvir for  
    31 

the treatment of patients with chronic HCV genotype 3. We also continue to support key brands in our virology franchise such as   Reyataz,     Baraclude   and the   Sustiva Franchise  . 
    
  In December 2015, we announced the divestiture of our pipeline of investigational human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) medicines to ViiV Healthcare, a global specialist company exclusively dedicated to finding new medicines for people living with HIV. This transaction will allow us to focus on therapeutic areas which are a priority and will drive the greatest long-term value to us.   
    
  Looking ahead, we will continue to implement our biopharma strategy by driving the growth of key brands, executing new product launches, investing in our diverse and innovative pipeline, including through business development, focusing on prioritized markets, increasing investments in our biologics manufacturing capabilities and maintaining a culture of continuous improvement. 
      
  Acquisition and Licensing Arrangements 
  Acquisition and licensing transactions allow us to focus our resources behind our growth opportunities that drive the greatest long-term value. We are focused on the following core therapeutic areas: oncology, immuno-oncology, immunoscience, cardiovascular diseases, fibrosis and genetically defined diseases. Significant transactions entered into in 2015 are summarized below:  
    
  Kyorin Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Kyorin) 
  In December 2015, BMS and Kyorin entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement granting BMS the right to develop, manufacture and commercialize Kyorin's FPR2 agonist program. Kyorin will have an option to collaborate with BMS in the development and commercialization in Japan. 
    
  Cardioxyl 
  In December 2015, BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of Cardioxyl, a privately held biotechnology company focused on the discovery and development of novel therapeutic agents for cardiovascular disease. The acquisition provided BMS with full rights to CXL-1427, a nitroxyl prodrug in Phase II development for acute decompensated heart failure. 
    
  Five Prime Therapeutics, Inc. (Five Prime) 
  In November 2015, BMS and Five Prime entered into an exclusive worldwide licensing and collaboration agreement for the development and commercialization of Five Prime s colony stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) antibody program, including FPA008 currently in Phase I development for immunology and oncology indications. BMS will be responsible for the development, manufacturing and commercialization of FPA008, subject to Five Prime s option to conduct certain studies at its cost to develop FPA008 in pigmented vilonodular synovitis (PVNS) and in combination with its own internal oncology pipeline assets. Five Prime also retained an option to co-promote in the U.S. The agreement replaces a previous clinical collaboration agreement between the two parties. 
    
  Promedior, Inc. (Promedior) 
  In September 2015, the Company purchased a warrant that gives BMS the exclusive right to acquire Promedior and gain worldwide rights to its lead asset, PRM-151, a recombinant form of human pentraxin-2 protein in Phase II development for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and myelofibrosis (MF). PRM-151 has been granted Fast Track designation in the U.S. and Orphan designation in the U.S. and Europe for the treatment of MF. In addition, PRM-151 has been granted Orphan Designation in the U.S. and Europe for the treatment of IPF. 
    
  uniQure N.V. (uniQure) 
  In May 2015, the Company entered into a collaboration and license agreement with uniQure granting BMS an exclusive license to uniQure s gene therapy technology platform for specific collaboration targets. The potential gene therapy products for such collaboration targets developed with uniQure s platform may be developed for any disease, although the parties intend to focus initially on cardiovascular diseases. The collaboration includes uniQure s proprietary gene therapy program for congestive heart failure that is intended to restore the heart s ability to synthesize S100A1, a calcium sensor and master regulator of heart function, and thereby improve clinical outcomes for patients with reduced ejection fraction.  In total, the companies may collaborate on 10 targets, including S100A1. BMS will be solely responsible for global commercialization of all products from the collaboration. In August 2015, the Company selected three additional collaboration targets. 
  In 2015, the Company acquired  2.4 million shares of uniQure in two separate tranches, or 9.9% of uniQure's outstanding shares immediately following the second of the two acquisitions. The Company also has been granted two warrants under which the Company has the right to purchase additional shares that, together with the shares currently owned by BMS, would equal 19.9% of uniQure's oustanding shares immediately after such issuance. The exercise of each warrant is conditioned upon the designation by BMS of a certain number of additional collaboration targets and the payment by BMS to uniQure of related fees under the collaboration and license agreement. 
    32 

Flexus 
  In April 2015, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Flexus, a privately held biotechnology company focused on discovering and developing novel anti-cancer therapeutics. The acquisition provided BMS with full rights to F001287, a preclinical small molecule IDO1-inhibitor targeted immunotherapy with potential to be used in combination with BMS's immuno-oncology portfolio. In addition, the transaction included Flexus's IDO/TDO discovery program which includes its IDO-selective, IDO/TDO dual and TDO-selective compounds.  
    
  Novo Nordisk A/S (Novo Nordisk) 
  In March 2015, the Company acquired an exclusive global license from Novo Nordisk to a discovery biologics research program focused on modulating the innate immune system as a therapy for autoimmune diseases.  
    
  Bavarian Nordic A/S (Bavarian Nordic) 
  In March 2015, the Company acquired an exclusive option to globally license and commercialize   Prostvac*  , Bavarian Nordic s investigational Phase III prostate-specific antigen-targeting cancer immunotherapy in development for the treatment of asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer.  
    
  Rigel Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Rigel) 
  In February 2015, the Company executed an agreement with Rigel for the discovery, development and global commercialization of cancer immunotherapies based on Rigel s extensive portfolio of small molecule TGF beta receptor kinase inhibitors. The collaboration will focus on developing a new class of therapeutics aimed at increasing the immune system s activity against various cancers either as monotherapy or in combination with immune checkpoint inhibitors, including   Opdivo   and   Yervoy  .  
    
  California Institute for Biomedical Research (Calibr) 
  In January 2015, the Company entered into a worldwide research collaboration with Calibr to develop novel small molecule anti-fibrotic therapies, and an exclusive global license agreement that allows the Company to develop, manufacture and commercialize Calibr's preclinical compounds resulting from the collaboration. 
      
  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
      
  Total Revenues 
  The composition of the changes in revenues was as follows: 

(a) 
    Other revenues include royalties and alliance-related revenues for products not sold by our regional commercial organizations. 
              (b) 
    Foreign exchange impacts were derived by applying the prior period average currency rates to the current period sales. 
       
  The increase in U.S. revenues in 2015 resulted from the launch of   Opdivo   and   Daklinza   and higher demand for   Eliquis   and   Sprycel   partially offset by the expiration of commercialization rights to   Abilify*   and the transfer of   Erbitux*   in North America. Average U.S. net selling prices increased by approximately 3%. Refer to " Product Sales Discussion" below for additional information. 
    
  The decrease in U.S. revenues in 2014 resulted from the diabetes business divestiture in February 2014 partially offset by higher demand for   Eliquis, Yervoy   and   Sprycel   and higher average net selling prices of approximately 3%. 
    
  The decrease in Europe revenues in 2015 resulted from unfavorable foreign exchange and the expiration of commercialization rights to   Abilify*   in the EU in June 2014 partially offset by the launch of   Daklinza   in certain EU countries in the third quarter of 2014 and higher demand for   Eliquis  . Revenues were also impacted by approximately $170 million of   Daklinza   net product sales for amounts previously deferred in 2014 until final pricing was obtained in France which occurred in 2015. Revenues continue to be negatively impacted in many European countries as healthcare payers, including government agencies, continued to reduce healthcare costs through actions that directly or indirectly impose additional price reductions.  
    33 

The decrease in Europe revenues in 2014 resulted from the expiration of EU commercialization rights to   Abilify*   in June 2014, the diabetes business divestiture and the loss of exclusivity of   Sustiva   in November 2013 partially offset by higher demand for   Eliquis,     Yervoy   and   Orencia   and the launch of   Daklinza   in certain EU countries in the third quarter of 2014. 
    
  The increase in Rest of the World revenues in 2015 resulted from the launch of the   Daklinza   and   Sunvepra   dual regimen in Japan in the third quarter of 2014 and higher demand for   Eliquis  , partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange (primarily in Japan).  
    
  The increase in Rest of the World revenues in 2014 resulted from higher demand for key products, particularly   Eliquis  ,   Yervoy, Sprycel   and the launch of the   Daklinza   and   Sunvepra   dual regimen     in Japan     in the third quarter of 2014 partially offset by the diabetes business divestiture and unfavorable foreign exchange (primarily in Japan). 
    
  The decrease in Other revenues in 2015 resulted from the expiration/transfer of certain licensing and royalty rights. The increase in Other revenues in 2014 resulted from higher royalties, mature brand and over-the-counter product alliances and diabetes product supply sales in 2014. Refer to "Item 8. Financial Statements Note   3  . Alliances" for further discussion of the alliances. 
    
  No single country outside the U.S. contributed more than 10% of total revenues in 2015, 2014 or 2013 except for Japan which contributed 10% of total revenues in 2015. 
      
  We recognize revenue net of gross-to-net adjustments that are further described in " Critical Accounting Policies". Our share of certain   Abilify*   and   Atripla*   revenues is reflected net of all gross-to-net adjustments in alliance and other revenues. Although not presented as a gross-to-net adjustment in the below tables, our share of   Abilify*   and   Atripla*   gross-to-net adjustments were approximately $1.1 billion in   2015  , $1.6 billion in   2014   and $1.3 billion in   2013  . These gross-to-net adjustments decreased in 2015 due to the expiration of our U.S. commercialization rights to   Abilify*   in April 2015. 
  The activities and ending reserve balances for each significant category of gross-to-net adjustments were as follows: 

34 

The reconciliation of gross product sales to net product sales (which excludes alliance and other revenues) by each significant category of gross-to-net adjustments was as follows: 

Gross-to-net adjustment rates are primarily a function of changes in revenue mix and contractual and legislative discounts and rebates. Gross-to-net adjustments increased in   2015   and   2014   due to: 
             
    Charge-backs and cash discounts increased in 2015 primarily due to higher product sales in the U.S., particularly regarding   Eliquis   and   Opdivo  .  
                
    Medicaid and Medicare rebates increased in 2015 primarily due to higher product sales and rebate rates in the U.S., particularly Medicare for   Eliquis.   Medicaid and Medicare rebates increased in 2014 primarily due to higher Medicare sales and rebate rates for   Eliquis  , and higher Medicaid rebates on virology products due to price increase limitations, partially offset by the diabetes business divestiture in February 2014.  
                
    The U.S. sales return reserve for   Plavix*   was reduced by $63 million in 2015, $30 million in 2014 and $22 million in 2013 after considering several factors including actual return experience and estimated inventory levels in the distribution channels. In accordance with Company policy, these products are eligible to be returned between six months prior to and twelve months after product expiration. The U.S. sales return reserve for   Plavix*   was not material at December 31, 2015.  
                
    Other rebates, discounts and adjustments increased in 2015 primarily due to additional rebates and discounts for   Daklinza   (including approximately $180 million upon obtaining final pricing in France for amounts deferred through March 31, 2015) and   Eliquis  . 
       35 

Product Revenues 

**    Change in excess of 100% 
    36 

Baraclude     an oral antiviral agent for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B. 
             
    U.S. revenues decreased in both periods following the loss of exclusivity in September 2014. 
                
    International revenues decreased in 2015 due to unfavorable foreign exchange partially offset by higher demand in certain countries. 
     Hepatitis C Franchise   Includes   Daklinza   - an NS5A replication complex inhibitor (revenues of   $1,315 million   in 2015 and   $201 million   in 2014) and   Sunvepra   (asunaprevir) - an NS3 protease inhibitor (revenues of   $288 million   in 2015 and   $55 million   in 2014). 
             
    Daklinza   was launched in the U.S. in July 2015. Additional competition is expected in the U.S. during 2016. 
                
    Daklinza   was launched in Germany and certain other EU countries in the third quarter of 2014 and subsequently approved in other international markets during 2015. The   Daklinza   and   Sunvepra   dual regimen was launched in Japan in the third quarter of 2014. International revenues also include $170 million of previously deferred revenue in France recognized in 2015. International revenues are expected to significantly decline in 2016 due to increased competition primarily in Japan. 
     Reyataz Franchise     a protease inhibitor for the treatment of the HIV, which includes   Reyataz   and is also included in the combination therapy,   Evotaz   (atazanavir 300 mg and cobicistat 150 mg). 
             
    U.S. revenues decreased in both periods due to lower demand resulting from increased competition. 
                
    International revenues decreased in both periods due to unfavorable foreign exchange and lower demand resulting from increased competition. 
     Sustiva Franchise     a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, which includes   Sustiva  , an antiretroviral drug, and bulk efavirenz, which is also included in the combination therapy,   Atripla*. 
             
    U.S. revenues decreased in 2015 due to lower demand resulting from increased competition partially offset by higher average net selling prices. U.S. revenues increased in 2014 due to higher average net selling prices partially offset by lower demand.  
                
    International revenues decreased in both periods due to   Sustiva's   loss of exclusivity in Europe in November 2013, which continues to negatively impact demand, average net selling prices and   Atripla*   revenue sharing.  
     Empliciti   - a humanized monoclonal antibody for the treatment of multiple myeloma.  
             
    Empliciti   was launched in the U.S. in December 2015. 
     Erbitux  *   a monoclonal antibody designed to exclusively target and block the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor, which is expressed on the surface of certain cancer cells in multiple tumor types as well as normal cells and is currently indicated for use in the treatment of patients with certain types of metastatic colorectal cancer and squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. 
             
    U.S. revenues decreased in 2015 due to BMS transferring its rights to   Erbitux*   in North America to Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly) in October 2015. Refer to "Item 8. Financial Statements Note   3  . Alliances  for further discussion. 
     Opdivo     a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds to the programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1) on T and natural killer T (NKT) cells that has been approved and continues to be investigated as an anti-cancer treatment. 
             
    U.S. revenues increased in 2015 due to the launch of   Opdivo   in December 2014 for the treatment of unresectable melanoma and subsequent approvals for additional indications in 2015, including in NSQ and SQ NSCLC and RCC, as well as the rapid commercial acceptance of   Opdivo   throughout the year. Refer to " Significant Product and Pipeline Highlights" for further discussion on the additional   Opdivo   approvals in 2015. 
                
    Opdivo   was launched in     Japan in September 2014 and was subsequently approved in the EU in June 2015 for the treatment of unresectable melanoma and in July 2015 for the treatment of advanced SQ NSCLC. Opdivo also was approved in other international markets in 2015. 
     Sprycel     an oral inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinases indicated for the first-line treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia in chronic phase and the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including   Gleevec*   (imatinib meslylate). 
             
    U.S. revenues increased in both periods primarily due to higher demand. 
                
    International revenues decreased in 2015 due to unfavorable foreign exchange partially offset by higher demand. International revenues increased in 2014 primarily due to higher demand partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange. 
       37 

Yervoy     a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. 
             
    U.S. revenues decreased in 2015 due to lower demand resulting from the introduction of other immuno-oncology products being used to treat patients with melanoma, including   Opdivo  . U.S. revenues increased in 2014 due to higher demand. 
                
    International revenues decreased in 2015 due to unfavorable foreign exchange. International revenues increased in 2014 due to higher demand. 
     Abilify*     an antipsychotic agent for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and major depressive disorder. 
              
    International revenues decreased in both periods following the expiration of our EU commercialization rights in June 2014 and Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. becoming the principal for the end customer sales in certain markets. 
     Orencia     a fusion protein indicated for adult patients with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and is also indicated for reducing signs and symptoms in certain pediatric patients with moderately to severely active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis. 
             
    U.S. revenues increased in both periods due to higher average net selling prices and demand. 
                
    International revenues increased in both periods primarily due to higher demand for the subcutaneous formulation partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange. 
     Eliquis     an oral Factor Xa inhibitor, targeted at stroke prevention in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF) and the prevention and treatment of venous thromboembolic (VTE) disorders. 
             
    U.S. and international revenues increased in both periods due to higher demand following the 2013 launches in most major markets for the reduction of the risk of stroke and systemic embolism for patients with NVAF and the treatment of VTE in 2014 in the U.S. and in 2015 in the EU. International revenues were also impacted by unfavorable foreign exchange. 
     Mature Products and All Other   includes all other products, including those which have lost exclusivity in major markets, the diabetes alliance products, over-the-counter brands and royalty revenue. 
             
    U.S. revenues decreased in both periods primarily due to the diabetes business divestiture in February 2014. 
                
    International revenues decreased in 2015 due to the expiration/transfer of certain licensing and royalty rights, the diabetes business divestiture in February 2014, unfavorable foreign exchange and continued generic erosion. International revenues decreased in 2014 due to the diabetes business divestiture and the continued generic erosion of other products partially offset by higher alliance revenues. 
         
  Estimated End-User Demand 
  Pursuant to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Consent Order described below under   SEC Consent Order , we monitor the level of inventory on hand in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel and outside of the U.S. in the direct customer distribution channel. We are obligated to disclose products with levels of inventory in excess of one month on hand or expected demand, subject to a de minimis exception. Estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel in excess of one month on hand for the following products were not material to our results of operations as of the dates indicated. No U.S. products had estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel in excess of one month on hand at December 31, 2015. Below are international products that had estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel in excess of one month on hand at September 30, 2015. 
  Dafalgan  , an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had 1.1 months of inventory on hand internationally at direct customers compared to 1.2 months of inventory on hand at June 30, 2015. The level of inventory on hand was primarily due to the ordering patterns of pharmacists in France. 
  Efferalgan  , an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had 1.4 months of inventory on hand internationally at direct customers at September 30, 2015 and June 30, 2015. The level of inventory on hand was primarily due to the ordering patterns of pharmacists in France and changes to our distribution model for over-the-counter products in Greece. 
  Fervex  , a cold and flu product, had 2.9 months of inventory on hand at direct customers compared to 3.1 months of inventory on hand at June 30, 2015. The level of inventory on hand was primarily in Russia and France to support product seasonality.  
  Donormyl  , a prescription sleeping aid, had 6.4 months of inventory on hand at direct customers compared to 4.8 months of inventory on hand at June 30, 2015. The level of inventory on hand was primarily in Russia and due to lower than expected demand from competitor pricing. 
    38 

In the U.S., we generally determine our months on hand estimates using inventory levels of product on hand and the amount of out-movement provided by our three largest wholesalers, which account for approximately 95% of total gross sales of U.S. products. Factors that may influence our estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, these estimates are calculated using third-party data, which may be impacted by their recordkeeping processes. 
    
  For our businesses outside of the U.S., we have significantly more direct customers. Limited information on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand information, where available, varies widely. When direct customer product level inventory, ultimate patient/consumer demand or out-movement data does not exist or is otherwise not available, we have developed a variety of other methodologies to estimate such data, including using such factors as historical sales made to direct customers and third-party market research data related to prescription trends and end-user demand. Accordingly, we rely on a variety of methods to estimate direct customer product level inventory and to calculate months on hand. Factors that may affect our estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations. As such, all of the information required to estimate months on hand in the direct customer distribution channel for non-U.S. business for the year ended December 31,   2015   is not available prior to the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K. We will disclose any product with levels of inventory in excess of one month on hand or expected demand, subject to a de minimis exception, in the next quarterly report on Form 10-Q. 
      
  Expenses 

**    Change in excess of 100% 
    
  Cost of products sold 
    
  Cost of products sold include material costs, internal labor and overhead from our owned manufacturing sites, third-party processing costs, other supply chain costs and the settlement of foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge forecasted intercompany inventory purchase transactions. Essentially all of these costs are managed by our global manufacturing and supply organization. Cost of products sold also includes royalties and profit sharing attributed to licensed products and alliances, amortization of acquired developed technology costs from business combinations and milestone payments that occur on or after regulatory approval. 
    
  Cost of products sold can vary between periods as a result of product mix and volume (particularly resulting from royalties and profit sharing expenses in connection with our alliances), changes in foreign currency, price, inflation and costs attributed to the rationalization of manufacturing sites resulting in accelerated depreciation, impairment charges and other stranded costs. 

Cost of products sold remained relatively flat in 2015 as higher profit sharing and royalties for alliances (primarily   Eliquis)   was  offset by favorable foreign exchange. 
                
    Cost of products sold decreased in 2014 primarily due to the diabetes business divestiture ($1.1 billion), partially offset by higher   Eliquis   profit sharing ($290 million) and accelerated depreciation for certain manufacturing facilities. 
       
  Marketing, selling and administrative 
    
  Marketing, selling and administrative expenses include salary and benefit costs, third-party professional and marketing fees, outsourcing fees, shipping and handling costs, advertising and product promotion and other expenses that are not attributed to product manufacturing costs or research and development expenses. Expenses are managed through regional commercialization organizations or global corporate organizations such as finance, legal, information technology and human resources. Certain expenses are shared with alliance partners based upon contractual agreements. 
             
    Marketing, selling and administrative expenses remained relatively flat in 2015 as increased sales-related activities supporting   Eliquis  ,   Opdivo   and the Hepatitis C Franchise were offset by favorable foreign exchange and $96 million of additional expenses related to the Branded Prescription Drug Fee in 2014 resulting from changes in IRS guidelines. 
       39 

Marketing, selling and administrative expenses remained relatively flat in 2014 as increased sales-related activities supporting   Eliquis  ,   Yervoy  ,   Opdivo   and the Hepatitis C Franchise, higher variable employee compensation and an additional Branded Prescription Drug Fee in 2014 were offset by lower expenses following the diabetes business divestiture ($500 million).  
                
    On July 28, 2014, the IRS issued final rules and regulations for the Branded Prescription Drug Fee, an annual non-tax-deductible fee payable to the federal government under the Affordable Care Act based on an allocation of a company s market share for branded prescription drugs sold to certain government programs in the prior year. The final rules accelerated BMS's and other industry participants' expense recognition criteria for the fee obligation from the year in which the fee is paid, to the year in which the market share used to allocate the fee is determined. As a result, an additional year of expense was recognized in the third quarter of 2014, including $96 million in marketing, selling and administrative expenses and $16 million in other expense. The final rules and regulations did not change the amount or timing of annual fees to be paid.  
       
  Research and development 
    
  Research and development activities include discovery research, preclinical and clinical development, drug formulation, as well as clinical trials and medical support of marketed products. Expenses include salary and benefit costs, third-party grants and fees paid to clinical research organizations, supplies, upfront and contingent milestone payments for licensing and asset acquisitions of investigational compounds, IPRD impairment charges and proportionate allocations of enterprise-wide costs. The allocations include facilities, information technology, employee stock compensation costs and other appropriate costs. Certain expenses are shared with alliance partners based upon contractual agreements. 
    
  Expenses can vary between periods for a number of reasons, including the timing of upfront and contingent milestone payments for licensing and asset acquisitions and IPRD impairment charges. 
             
    Research and development expenses increased in 2015 due to higher charges resulting from investigational compound acquisitions (including $800 million for Flexus and $167 million for Cardioxyl), upfront payments for new alliance and licensing agreements (including $350 million for Five Prime) and increased investments to accelerate and expand   Opdivo   development programs partially offset by lower IPRD impairment charges (including $160 million for LPA1 antagonist in 2015) and favorable foreign exchange.  
                
    Research and development expenses increased in 2014 due to   $343 million   IPRD impairment charges (including $310 million for peginterferon lambda), higher variable employee compensation and clinical development costs, a $148 million charge for the acquisition of iPierian, Inc. (iPierian) and upfront and contingent milestone payments for alliance and licensing agreements of $130 million in 2014. 
     Refer to "Item 8. Financial Statements Note   3  . Alliances, Note   4  . Acquisitions  and Other Divestitures and Note   14  . Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" for further information.  
      
  Other (income)/expense 

Litigation and other settlements includes an additional charge of   $90 million   for a contractual dispute related to a license subsequent to the Company's earnings release for the fourth quarter of 2015. 
                
    Gain on sale of businesses, product lines and assets primarily resulted from the sale of the   Ixempra*   business, Mount Vernon, Indiana manufacturing facility, certain mature and other over-the-counter product businesses and the transfer of   Erbitux*   in North America in 2015 and the diabetes business divestiture in 2014. Refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   3  . Alliances and Note   4  . Acquisitions and Other Divestitures  for further details. 
       
    40 

Other alliance and licensing income includes royalties, transitional services and other fees resulting from the diabetes and other business divestitures in 2015 and 2014 and income of $123 million resulting from the change in fair value of the written option liability attributed to the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc (Reckitt) alliance in 2015. Refer to "Item 8. Financial Statements Note   3  . Alliances" for further discussion. 
                
    Pension settlement charges were recognized after determining that the annual lump sum payments would exceed the annual interest and service costs for certain pension plans, including the primary U.S. pension plan in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  . The charges include the acceleration of a portion of unrecognized actuarial losses and will likely occur in the future. An additional pension settlement charge of $713 million was recognized in 2014 following the purchase of a group annuity contract from The Prudential Insurance Company of America in December 2014. Refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   19  . Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities  for further details. 
                
    The loss on debt redemption in 2015 resulted from the early redemption of euro notes and a tender offer for certain other debt securities. Refer to "Item 8. Financial Statements Note   10  . Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements" for further details.  
         
  Income Taxes 

Historically, the effective income tax rate is lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35% due to our decision to indefinitely reinvest the earnings for certain of our manufacturing operations in Switzerland, Ireland and Puerto Rico. BMS operates under a favorable tax grant in Puerto Rico not scheduled to expire prior to 2023. 
    
  The tax impact attributed to research and development charges, divestiture transactions and other specified items including additional transfer pricing reserves in 2014 increased the effective tax rate by 0.3% in 2015 and reduced the effective tax rate by 5.1% in 2014 and 4.6% in 2013. No tax benefits were attributed to the research and development charges resulting from the acquisitions of Flexus and Cardioxyl in 2015 and iPierian in 2014. Minimal income taxes were attributed to the diabetes business divestiture gain in 2014 because of the capital loss deduction on the sale of the Amylin shares and tax basis differences resulting primarily from allocated goodwill and Amylin deferred taxes. Earnings mix between high and low tax jurisdictions in all periods and the retroactive reinstatement of the 2012 research and development credit legislation in 2013 also impacted the effective tax rates. Refer to "Item 8. Financial Statements Note   8  . Income Taxes" for further information. 
      
  Non-GAAP Financial Measures 
    
  Our non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings and related EPS information, are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items that due to their significant and/or unusual nature are evaluated on an individual basis. Similar charges or gains for some of these items have been recognized in prior periods and it is reasonably possible that they could reoccur in future periods. Non-GAAP information is intended to portray the results of our baseline performance which include the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of pharmaceutical products on a global basis and to enhance an investor s overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings and EPS information is an indication of our baseline performance before items that are considered by us to not be reflective of our ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators we use as a basis for evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting for future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted EPS prepared in accordance with GAAP. 
    
    41 

Specified items were as follows: 

(a)    Includes $16 million of additional year of Branded Prescription Drug Fee in the third quarter of 2014. 
  (b)    The 2014 specified tax charge relates to transfer pricing matters. 
      
  The reconciliations from GAAP to Non-GAAP were as follows: 

42 

Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources 
      
  Our net cash position was as follows: 

Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held in the U.S. were approximately   $1.7 billion   at December 31,   2015  . Most of the remaining   $7.2 billion   is held primarily in low-tax jurisdictions and is attributable to earnings that are expected to be indefinitely reinvested offshore. Cash repatriations are subject to restrictions in certain jurisdictions and may be subject to withholding and additional U.S. income taxes. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities together with cash generated from operations and issuance of commercial paper in the U.S. will be sufficient to satisfy our normal cash requirements for at least the next few years, including dividends, capital expenditures, milestone payments and working capital. 
    
  Management continuously evaluates the Company s capital structure to ensure the Company is financed efficiently. This includes potential opportunities to repurchase certain debt securities, terminate certain interest rate swap contracts prior to their maturity and access the capital markets, subject to market conditions. For example, we issued senior unsecured notes in a registered public offering generating proceeds of $1.3 billion and redeemed/repurchased certain notes for nearly $2.0 billion during 2015. Refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 10. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements  for further details. We issued commercial paper to meet near-term domestic liquidity requirements during 2015. The average amount of commercial paper outstanding was   $254 million   at a weighted-average interest rate of   0.16%   during 2015. The maximum month end amount of commercial paper outstanding was   $755 million   with no outstanding borrowings at December 31,   2015  . 
    
  Dividend payments were   $2.5 billion   in   2015  , $2.4 billion in   2014   and $2.3 billion in   2013  . Dividend decisions are made on a quarterly basis by our Board of Directors. Capital expenditures were approximately $800 million in   2015   and approximately $500 million in   2014   and   2013   and are expected to be approximately $1.3 billion in 2016 and $1.0 billion in 2017. The higher spending is expected as a result of expanding our biologics manufacturing capabilities and other facility-related activities. For example, we are constructing a new large-scale biologics manufacturing facility in Ireland that will produce multiple therapies for our growing biologics portfolio when completed in 2019. 
    
  Our marketable securities portfolio is subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest rate fluctuations and other market factors, which may impact our results of operations. Our investment policy places limits on these investments and the amount and time to maturity of investments with any institution. The policy also requires that investments are only entered into with corporate and financial institutions that meet high credit quality standards. Refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   10  . Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements  for further details. 
    
  Two separate $1.5 billion five-year revolving credit facilities are maintained from a syndicate of lenders. The facilities provide for customary terms and conditions with no financial covenants and are extendable on any anniversary date with the consent of the lenders. No borrowings were outstanding under either revolving credit facility at December 31,   2015   or   2014  . 
    
  Additional regulations in the U.S. could be passed in the future which could negatively impact our results of operations, operating cash flow, liquidity and financial flexibility. We also continue to monitor the potential impact of the economic conditions in certain European countries and the related impact on prescription trends, pricing discounts, creditworthiness of our customers and our ability to collect outstanding receivables from our direct customers. Currently, we believe these economic conditions in the EU will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow or financial flexibility. 
    
  Our exposure with certain European government-backed entities have a higher risk of default. These government-backed entities are monitored through economic factors including credit ratings, credit-default swap rates and debt-to-gross domestic product ratios in addition to entity specific factors. We manage our exposure by factoring certain receivables, including receivables in Italy, Portugal and Spain as circumstances permit. Factoring of receivables in those countries were   $476 million   in   2015  ,   $454 million   in   2014   and   $509 million   in   2013  . Factoring of receivables in Japan were   $358 million   in   2014   and   $522 million   in   2013  . Our factoring agreements do not allow for recourse in the event of uncollectibility and we do not retain interest to the underlying assets once sold. 
    43 

Credit Ratings 
    
  BMS's long-term and short-term credit ratings assigned by Moody's Investors Service are A2 and Prime-1, respectively, and the long-term credit outlook was revised from negative to stable in April 2015. BMS's long-term and short-term credit ratings assigned by Standard   Poor's are A+ and A-1+, respectively, with a stable long-term credit outlook. BMS's long-term and short-term credit ratings assigned by Fitch are A- and F2, respectively, with a stable long-term credit outlook. Our long-term ratings reflect the agencies' opinion that we have a low default risk but are somewhat susceptible to adverse effects of changes in circumstances and economic conditions. Our short-term ratings reflect the agencies' opinion that we have good to extremely strong capacity for timely repayment. Any credit rating downgrade may affect the interest rate of any debt we may incur, the fair market value of existing debt and our ability to access the capital markets generally. 
      
  Cash Flows 
  The following is a discussion of cash flow activities: 

Operating Activities 
    
  Cash flow from operating activities represents the cash receipts and cash disbursements from all of our activities other than investing activities and financing activities. Operating cash flow is derived by adjusting net earnings for noncontrolling interest, non-cash operating items, gains and losses attributed to investing and financing activities and changes in operating assets and liabilities resulting from timing differences between the receipts and payments of cash and when the transactions are recognized in our results of operations. As a result, changes in cash from operating activities reflect the timing of cash collections from customers and alliance partners; payments to suppliers, alliance partners and employees; pension contributions; and tax payments in the ordinary course of business. 
    
  The   $1.3 billion   decrease in cash provided by operating activities in   2015   was primarily attributable to: 
             
    Timing of payments with alliance partners (approximately $700 million), particularly active product ingredient supply and Medicaid rebates for   Abilify*  ; 
                
    Higher upfront payments for new alliance and licensing agreements (approximately $600 million); and 
                
    Timing of customer collections resulting primarily from higher net product sales including those with extended payment terms for certain new products and less factoring (approximately $400 million). 
     Partially offset by: 
             
    The timing of other cash collections and payments in the ordinary course of business including among other items, changes in inventory levels, particularly those related to   Abilify*  . 
       
  The   $397 million   decrease in cash provided by operating activities in   2014   was primarily attributable to: 
             
    Lower upfront and contingent alliance proceeds of approximately $600 million (Reckitt alliance proceeds of $485 million in 2013); and 
                
    Additional net working capital requirements of approximately $400 million. 
     Partially offset by: 
             
    The timing of other cash collections and payments in the ordinary course of business including among other items, lower pension contributions, restructuring and annual bonus payments. 
       44 

Investing Activities 
    
  Cash requirements from investing activities include cash used for business and asset acquisitions, manufacturing and facility-related capital expenditures and purchase of marketable securities with maturities greater than 90 days reduced by proceeds from business divestitures and the sale and maturity of marketable securities. 
    
  The   $2.8 billion   decrease in cash provided by investing activities in   2015   was primarily attributable to: 
               
    Higher capital expenditures (approximately $300 million). 
     Partially offset by: 
      
  The   $1.8 billion   decrease in cash used in investing activities in   2014   was primarily attributable to: 
             
    Proceeds of $3.5 billion allocated to the diabetes business divestiture in 2014. 
     Partially offset by: 
             
    Higher net purchases of marketable securities (approximately   $1.6 billion  ); and 
        
  Financing Activities 
    
  Cash requirements from financing activities include cash used to pay dividends, repurchase common stock and repay long-term debt and other borrowings reduced by proceeds from the exercise of stock options and issuance of long-term debt and other borrowings. 
    
  The   $914 million   increase in cash used in financing activities in   2015   was primarily attributable to: 
             
    Lower short-term borrowings of approximately $700 million in 2015, consisting primarily of changes in bank overdrafts. 
       
  The   $1.4 billion   increase in cash used in financing activities in   2014   was primarily attributable to: 
    Partially offset by: 
       
  Contractual Obligations 
  Payments due by period for our contractual obligations at December 31,   2015   were as follows: 

(a)   
    Includes estimated future interest payments and periodic cash settlements of derivatives. 
              (b) 
    Includes only short-term uncertain tax benefits because of uncertainties regarding the timing of resolution. 
       45 

In addition to the above, we are committed to an aggregated $9.3 billion of potential future research and development milestone payments to third parties for in-licensing, asset acquisitions and development programs including early-stage milestones of $2.6 billion (milestones achieved through Phase III clinical trials) and late-stage milestones of $6.7 billion (milestones achieved post Phase III clinical trials). Payments generally are due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental and regulatory milestones for which the specific timing cannot be predicted. Some of these agreements also provide for sales-based milestones aggregating $2.3 billion that we would be obligated to pay to alliance partners upon achievement of certain sales levels in addition to royalties. We also have certain manufacturing, development and commercialization obligations in connection with alliance arrangements. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of these obligations. Refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   3  . Alliances  for further information regarding our alliances. 
  For a discussion of contractual obligations, refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 8. Income Taxes,    Note   10  . Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements,    Note   19  . Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities  and   Note   21  . Leases.  
      
  SEC Consent Order / FCPA Settlement 
    
  As previously disclosed, on August 4, 2004, we entered into a final settlement with the SEC, concluding an investigation concerning certain wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a Consent, a copy of which was attached as Exhibit 10 to our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004. 
    
  Under the terms of the Consent, we agreed, subject to certain defined exceptions, to limit sales of all products sold to our direct customers (including wholesalers, distributors, hospitals, retail outlets, pharmacies and government purchasers) based on expected demand or on amounts that do not exceed approximately one month of inventory on hand, without making a timely public disclosure of any change in practice. We also agreed in the Consent to certain measures that we have implemented including: (a) establishing a formal review and certification process of our annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC; (b) establishing a business risk and disclosure group; (c) retaining an outside consultant to comprehensively study and help re-engineer our accounting and financial reporting processes; (d) publicly disclosing any sales incentives offered to direct customers for the purpose of inducing them to purchase products in excess of expected demand; and (e) ensuring that our budget process gives appropriate weight to inputs that come from the bottom to the top, and not just from the top to the bottom, and adequately documenting that process. 
    
  We have established a company-wide policy to limit our sales to direct customers for the purpose of complying with the Consent. This policy includes the adoption of various procedures to monitor and limit sales to direct customers in accordance with the terms of the Consent. These procedures include a governance process to escalate to appropriate management levels potential questions or concerns regarding compliance with the policy and timely resolution of such questions or concerns. In addition, compliance with the policy is monitored on a regular basis. 
    
  We maintain inventory management agreements (IMAs) with our U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers, which account for nearly 100% of our gross U.S. revenues. Under the current terms of the IMAs, our wholesaler customers provide us with weekly information with respect to months on hand product-level inventories and the amount of out-movement of products. The three largest wholesalers currently account for approximately 95% of our gross U.S. revenues. The inventory information received from our wholesalers, together with our internal information, is used to estimate months on hand product level inventories at these wholesalers. We estimate months on hand product inventory levels for our U.S. business s wholesaler customers other than the three largest wholesalers by extrapolating from the months on hand calculated for the three largest wholesalers. In contrast, our non-U.S. business has significantly more direct customers, limited information on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand information, where available, varies widely. Accordingly, we rely on a variety of methods to estimate months on hand product level inventories for these business units. 
    
  We believe the above-described procedures provide a reasonable basis to ensure compliance with the Consent. 
    
  In addition, as previously disclosed, in October 2015, the Company reached a civil settlement with the SEC of alleged Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) violations in which the Company agreed to approximately $14.7 million in disgorgement, penalties and interest.  As part of the settlement, the Company also agreed to a two-year self-monitoring period of reporting to the government and is maintaining  procedures to ensure compliance. 
      
  Recently Issued Accounting Standards 
    
  For recently issued accounting standards, refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   1  . Accounting Policies Recently Issued Accounting Standards.  
    46 

Critical Accounting Policies 
    
  The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. Our critical accounting policies are those that significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Because of this uncertainty, actual results may vary from these estimates. These accounting policies were discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 
    
  Revenue Recognition 
    
  Our accounting policy for revenue recognition has a substantial impact on reported results and relies on certain estimates. Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the sales price is fixed or determinable, collectability is reasonably assured and title and substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred (generally upon shipment except in certain EU markets which does not occur until delivery of the products to the customer). In 2014, we deferred approximately $300 million invoiced for   Daklinza   under an early access program in France. A portion of this amount was recognized as revenue in 2015 when final pricing was obtained in France. Revenue is also reduced for gross-to-net sales adjustments discussed below, all of which involve significant estimates and judgment after considering legal interpretations of applicable laws and regulations, historical experience, payer channel mix (e.g. Medicare or Medicaid), current contract prices under applicable programs, unbilled claims and processing time lags and inventory levels in the distribution channel. Estimates are assessed each period and adjusted as required to revised information or actual experience.  
    
  In alliance arrangements involving the delivery of more than one element, each undelivered element is evaluated whether it qualifies as a separate unit of accounting. The consideration that is fixed or determinable is then allocated to each undelivered element and is recognized as the related goods or services are delivered, limited to the consideration that is not contingent upon future deliverables. Consideration associated with contingent milestones and royalties are allocated among the underlying elements if and when the amounts are determined to be payable to BMS. 
    
  Gross-to-Net Adjustments 
    
  The following categories of gross-to-net adjustments involve significant estimates, judgments and information obtained from external sources. Refer to   Total Revenues  above for further discussion and analysis of each significant category of gross-to-net sales adjustments. 
    
  Charge-backs and cash discounts 
    
  Our U.S. business participates in programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and other parties, including covered entities under the 340B Drug Pricing Program, whereby pricing on products is extended below wholesaler list price to participating entities. These entities purchase products through wholesalers at the lower program price and the wholesalers then charge us the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower program price. Accounts receivable is reduced for the estimated amount of unprocessed charge-back claims attributable to a sale (typically within a two to four week time lag). 
    
  In the U.S. and certain other countries, cash discounts are offered as an incentive for prompt payment, generally approximating 2% of the sales price. Accounts receivable is reduced for the estimated amount of unprocessed cash discounts (typically within a one month time lag). 
    
  Medicaid and Medicare rebates 
    
  Our U.S. business participates in state government Medicaid programs and other qualifying Federal and state government programs requiring discounts and rebates to participating state and local government entities. All discounts and rebates provided through these programs are included in our Medicaid rebate accrual. Medicaid rebates have also been extended to drugs used in managed Medicaid plans. The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates is presented as a liability. 
    
  Rebates and discounts are offered to managed healthcare organizations in the U.S. managing prescription drug programs and Medicare Advantage prescription drug plans covering the Medicare Part D drug benefit. We also pay a 50% point of service discount to the Centers for Medicare   Medicaid Services when the Medicare Part D beneficiaries are in the coverage gap ("donut hole"). The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates and discounts is presented as a liability.  
    
    47 

Sales returns 
    
  Products are typically eligible to be returned between six months prior to and twelve months after product expiration, in accordance with our policy. Estimated returns for established products are determined after considering historical experience and other factors including levels of inventory in the distribution channel, estimated shelf life, product recalls, product discontinuances, price changes of competitive products, introductions of generic products, introductions of competitive new products and lower demand following the loss of exclusivity. The estimated amount for product returns is presented as a liability. 
    
  Estimated returns for new products are determined after considering historical sales return experience of similar products, such as those within the same product line or similar therapeutic category. We defer recognition of revenue until the right of return expires or until sufficient historical experience to estimate sales returns is developed in limited circumstances. This typically occurs when the new product is not an extension of an existing line of product or when historical experience with products in a similar therapeutic category is lacking. Estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel and projected demand are also considered in estimating sales returns for new products. 
    
  Other rebates, discounts and adjustments 
    
  Other gross-to-net sales adjustments include all other programs based on applicable laws and regulations for individual non-U.S. countries as well as rebates offered to managed healthcare organizations in the U.S to a lesser extent. The non-U.S. programs include several different pricing schemes such as cost caps, volume discounts, outcome-based pricing schemes and pricing claw-backs that are based on sales of individual companies or an aggregation of all companies participating in a specific market. The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates and discounts is presented as a liability. 
  Use of information from external sources 
    
  Information from external sources is used to estimate gross-to-net adjustments. Our estimate of inventory at the wholesalers are based on the projected prescription demand-based sales for our products and historical inventory experience, as well as our analysis of third-party information, including written and oral information obtained from certain wholesalers with respect to their inventory levels and sell-through to customers and third-party market research data, and our internal information. The inventory information received from wholesalers is a product of their recordkeeping process and excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as retailers and hospitals. 
    
  We have also continued the practice of combining retail and mail prescription volume on a retail-equivalent basis. We use this methodology for internal demand forecasts. We also use information from external sources to identify prescription trends, patient demand and average selling prices. Our estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates that rely on third-party information, as certain third-party information was itself in the form of estimates, and reflect other limitations including lags between the date as of which third-party information is generated and the date on which we receive third-party information. 
    
  Retirement Benefits 
    
  Accounting for pension and postretirement benefit plans requires actuarial valuations based on significant assumptions for discount rates and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. In consultation with our actuaries, these significant assumptions and others such as salary growth, retirement, turnover, healthcare trends and mortality rates are evaluated and selected based on expectations or actual experience during each remeasurement date. Pension expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings, projected benefit obligations and future cash funding. Actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors. 
    
  The yield on high quality corporate bonds that coincides with the cash flows of the plans  estimated payouts is used in determining the discount rate. The Citigroup Pension Discount curve is used for the U.S. plans. The U.S. plans  pension expense for   2015   was determined using a 4.0% weighted-average discount rate. The present value of benefit obligations at December 31,   2015   for the U.S. pension plans was determined using a 4.2% discount rate. If the discount rate used in determining the U.S. plans  pension expense for   2015   was reduced by an additional 1%, such expense would increase by approximately $9 million. If the assumed discount rate used in determining the U.S. pension plans  projected benefit obligation at December 31,   2015   was reduced by an additional 1%, the projected benefit obligation would increase by approximately $1.0 billion. 
    
  New mortality tables (RP-2014) and mortality improvement scales (MP-2014) were issued by the Society of Actuaries in 2014 reflecting longer life expectancies than the previous tables. The new tables were used to measure the U.S. pension and post-retirement obligations beginning at September 30, 2014, resulting in an increase in the obligations of approximately $600 million. The revised mortality rates are not expected to materially impact pension expense in future periods. 
    
    48 

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is estimated considering expected returns for individual asset classes with input from external advisors. We also consider long-term historical returns including actual performance compared to benchmarks for similar investments. The U.S. plans  pension expense for   2015   was determined using an 7.8% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used in determining the U.S. plans  pension expense for   2015   was reduced by 1%, such expense would increase by $39 million. 
    
  For a more detailed discussion on retirement benefits, refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   19  . Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities.  
    
  Business Combinations and Divestitures 
    
  Goodwill and other intangible assets acquired in business combinations, licensing and other transactions were   $8.3 billion   (representing   26%   of total assets) at December 31,   2015  . 
    
  Accounting for transactions as business combinations and divestitures is significantly different than asset acquisitions and divestitures. For example, acquired IPRD is capitalized for business combinations and expensed for asset acquisitions and the fair value of contingent consideration and goodwill are only recognized in business combination transactions. Likewise, when a portion of a reporting unit that constitutes a business is divested, goodwill associated with that business is included in the carrying value of the business in determining the gain or loss. Derecognition of goodwill does not occur in asset dispositions. As a result, it is important to determine whether a business or an asset or group of assets is acquired or divested. A business is defined in ASC 805 - Business Combinations as an integrated set of inputs and processes that are capable of generating outputs that have the ability to provide a return to its investors or owners. Typical inputs include long-lived assets (including intangible assets or rights to use long-lived assets), intellectual property and the ability to obtain access to required resources. Typical processes include strategic, operational and resource management processes that are typically documented or evident through an organized workforce. 
    
  We consider all of the above factors when determining whether a business was acquired (or divested) as well as the compound's development phase if no commercial products are involved. For example, in evaluating our acquisitions of Cardioxyl and Flexus in 2015 and iPierian in 2014, we concluded that no significant processes were transferred to us, thus the transactions were accounted for as asset acquisitions. As a result, the amounts allocated to the lead investigational compounds were expensed and not capitalized. In addition, contingent consideration from potential development, regulatory, approval and sales-based milestones and sales-based royalties were not included in the purchase price. Refer to "Item 8. Financial Statements Note   4  . Acquisitions and Other Divestitures" for further discussion on our acquisitions.   
    
  Similarly, in evaluating our divestitures of   Erbitux*  ,   Ixempra*   and the businesses comprising the alliances with The Medicines Company and Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Inc. in 2015 and our diabetes business to AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca) in 2014 we concluded that all necessary inputs and processes were transferred, and consequently the transactions were accounted for as sales of businesses, which resulted in the allocation of goodwill ($73 million in 2015 and $600 million in 2014) to the carrying value of the businesses in determining the gain on sale. Contingent proceeds related to divestitures are not recognized until realized. 
    
  Valuation processes are also required for certain multiple element arrangements and include determination of judgmental and complex matters, discussed above. For example, BMS purchased a warrant in 2015 that gives BMS the exclusive right to acquire Promedior, which required the determination of the best estimated selling price of the two separate elements identified in the transaction (the warrant and the clinical development services). Similarly, the divestiture of the diabetes business to AstraZeneca in 2014 required the determination of the best estimated selling price of several elements including the business, supply and development agreements (including the appropriate mark-ups) and the estimated fair value of the manufacturing facility. Refer to "Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Alliances" for further discussion on both transactions. 
    
  Impairment 
    
  Other Intangible Assets, including IPRD 
    
  Other intangible assets were $  1.4 billion   at December 31,   2015  , including licenses (  $266 million  ), developed technology rights (  $758 million  ), capitalized software (  $275 million  ) and IPRD (  $120 million  ). Intangible assets are assessed for impairment whenever current facts or circumstances warrant a review, although IPRD is assessed at least annually. Intangible assets are highly vulnerable to impairment charges, particularly newly acquired assets for recently launched products or IPRD. These assets are initially measured at fair value and therefore any reduction in expectations used in the valuations could potentially lead to impairment. Some of the more common potential risks leading to impairment include competition, earlier than expected loss of exclusivity, pricing pressures, adverse regulatory changes or clinical trial results, delay or failure to obtain regulatory approval and additional development costs, inability to achieve expected synergies, higher operating costs, changes in tax laws and other macro-economic changes. The complexity in estimating the fair value of intangible assets in connection with an impairment test is similar to the initial valuation. 
    49 

Considering the high risk nature of research and development and the industry s success rate of bringing developmental compounds to market, IPRD impairment charges are likely to occur in future periods. We recognized a   $160 million   charge in 2015 for BMS-986020 which was in Phase II development for treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and   $343 million   in 2014, including a $310 million charge for peginterferon lambda which was in Phase III development for treatment of HCV. For discussion on IPRD impairments,  refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   14  . Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." 
    
  Property, Plant and Equipment 
    
  Property, plant and equipment is tested for impairment whenever current facts or circumstances warrant a review. Additionally, these long-lived assets are periodically reviewed to determine if any change in facts or circumstances would result in a change to the estimated useful life of the asset, possibly resulting in the acceleration of depreciation. If such circumstances exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows generated by the asset, or the appropriate grouping of assets, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists at its lowest level of identifiable cash flows. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset s fair value and its carrying value. Expectations of future cash flows are subject to change based upon the near and long-term production volumes and margins generated by the asset as well as any potential alternative future use. Accelerated depreciation and other related charges for certain manufacturing and R D facilities were $115 million in   2015  , $151 million in   2014   and $36 million in   2013  . 
    
  Contingencies 
    
  In the normal course of business, we are subject to contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of our business, that cover a wide range of matters, including, among others, government investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and environmental liability, contractual claims and tax matters. We recognize accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These estimates are subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict and, as such, actual results could vary from these estimates. 
    
  For discussions on contingencies, refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   1  . Accounting Policies Contingencies,    Note   8  . Income Taxes  and   Note   22  . Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.  
    
  Income Taxes 
    
  Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is required often requires significant judgment including long-range forecasts of future taxable income and evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period when such assessments are made. Our deferred tax assets were   $4.1 billion   at December 31,   2015   (net of valuation allowances of   $3.5 billion  ) and   $3.8 billion   at December 31,   2014   (net of valuation allowances of   $4.3 billion  ). 
    
  Deferred tax assets related to a U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforward of $146 million and a U.S. Federal tax credit carryforward of $27 million were recognized at December 31,   2015  . The net operating loss carryforward expires in varying amounts beginning in 2022. The U.S. Federal tax credit carryforward expires in varying amounts beginning in 2017. The realization of these carryforwards is dependent on generating sufficient domestic-sourced taxable income prior to their expiration. A $6 million valuation allowance was established for this item at December 31, 2015. Although not assured, we believe it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets not valued will be realized. 
    
  Taxes are not provided on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries expected to be reinvested indefinitely offshore.  
    
  Prior to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (Mead Johnson) split-off in 2009, the following transactions occurred: (i) an internal spin-off of Mead Johnson shares while still owned by us; (ii) conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares; and; (iii) conversion of Mead Johnson   Company to a limited liability company. These transactions as well as the split-off of Mead Johnson through the exchange offer should qualify as tax-exempt transactions under the Internal Revenue Code based upon a private letter ruling received from the Internal Revenue Service related to the conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares, and outside legal opinions.  
    
  Certain assumptions, representations and covenants by Mead Johnson were relied upon regarding the future conduct of its business and other matters which could affect the tax treatment of the exchange. For example, the current tax law generally creates a presumption that the exchange would be taxable to us, if Mead Johnson or its shareholders were to engage in transactions that result in a 50% or greater change in its stock ownership during a four year period beginning two years before the exchange offer, unless it is established that the exchange offer were not part of a plan or series of related transactions to effect such a change in ownership. If the internal spin-off or exchange offer were determined not to qualify as a tax exempt transaction, the transaction could be subject to tax as if the exchange was a taxable sale by us at market value. 
    
    50 

In addition, a negative basis or excess loss account (ELA) existed in our investment in stock of Mead Johnson prior to these transactions. We received an opinion from outside legal counsel to the effect that it is more likely than not that we eliminated the ELA as part of these transactions and do not have taxable income with respect to the ELA. The tax law in this area is complex and it is possible that even if the internal spin-off and the exchange offer is tax exempt under the Internal Revenue Code, the IRS could assert that we have additional taxable income for the period with respect to the ELA. We could be exposed to additional taxes if this were to occur. Based upon our understanding of the Internal Revenue Code and opinion from outside legal counsel, a tax reserve of $244 million was established reducing the gain on disposal of Mead Johnson included in discontinued operations in 2009. 
    
  We agreed to certain tax related indemnities with Mead Johnson as set forth in the tax sharing agreement, including certain taxes related to its business prior to the completion of the IPO and created as part of the restructuring to facilitate the IPO. Mead Johnson has also agreed to indemnify us for potential tax effects resulting from the breach of certain representations discussed above as well as certain transactions related to the acquisition of Mead Johnson s stock or assets. 
    
  Liabilities are established for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to, transfer pricing matters, tax credits and deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known. For example, additional reserves of $123 million were established in 2014 for certain transfer pricing matters related to periods from 2008 through 2014.  
    
  For discussions on income taxes, refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   1  . Accounting Policies Income Taxes  and   Note   8  . Income Taxes.  
      
  Product and Pipeline Developments 
  Our R D programs are managed on a portfolio basis from early discovery through late-stage development. We continually evaluate our portfolio to ensure that there is an appropriate balance of early-stage and late-stage programs to support future growth. Our R D programs in Phase III development are considered significant, as these programs constitute our late-stage development pipeline. These development programs include both investigational compounds in Phase III development for initial indications and marketed products in Phase III development for additional indications or formulations. Spending on these programs represents approximately 30-45% of our annual R D expenses. No individual investigational compound or marketed product represented 10% or more of our R D expenses in any of the last three years, except for   Opdivo   in 2015. Our late-stage development programs could potentially have an impact on our revenue and earnings within the next few years, although we do not expect all of our late-stage development programs to make it to market. The following are the developments in our marketed products and our late-stage pipeline: 
    
  Opdivo   - a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds to the PD-1 on T and NKT cells that has been approved and continues to be investigated as an anti-cancer treatment.   Opdivo   is part of our alliance with Ono. 
  Unresectable (inoperable) or metastatic (advanced) melanoma 
             
    In January 2016, the Company announced a randomized Phase III study evaluating   Opdivo   versus investigator's choice in patients with recurrent or metastatic platinum-refractory squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck was stopped early because an assessment conducted by the independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) concluded that the study met its primary endpoint, demonstrating superior overall survival in patients receiving   Opdivo   compared to the control arm. 
                
    In January 2016, the Company announced the FDA approved   Opdivo   in combination with   Yervoy   for the treatment of patients with BRAF V600 wild-type and BRAF V600 mutation positive unresectable or metastatic melanoma. This approval expands the original indication for the   Opdivo+Yervoy r  egimen for the treatment of patients with BRAF     V600 wild-type unresectable or metastatic melanoma to include patients, regardless of BRAF mutational status, based on data from the Phase III CheckMate-067 trial which evaluated progression-free survival and overall survival as co-primary endpoints. This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on progression-free survival. 
                
    In January 2016, the Company announced the FDA expanded the use of   Opdivo   as a single agent to include previously untreated BRAF     mutation positive advanced melanoma patients. The use of   Opdivo   as a single agent in patients with BRAF     V600 mutation positive     unresectable or metastatic melanoma is approved under accelerated approval based on progression-free survival.  
                
    In November 2015, the Company announced the FDA approved   Opdivo   as a single agent for the treatment of previously untreated patients with BRAF     V600     wild-type unresectable or metastatic melanoma. 
                
    In November 2015, the Company announced results from multiple clinical trials 
                
    CheckMate-066 - In the study evaluating   Opdivo   as a single agent versus dacarbazine in patients with previously untreated BRAF     wild-type unresectable or metastatic melanoma,   Opdivo   continued to demonstrate superior overall survival versus dacarbazine with 57.7% of patients alive at two years compared to 26.7% of patients treated with dacarbazine. The safety profile of   Opdivo   was consistent with prior studies.  
                
    Study 004 - In the study evaluating   Opdivo   in combination with   Yervoy   in patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma on which the proof of concept for   Opdivo  +  Yervoy   regimen approval was based, data from the longest follow- 
       51 

up of the regimen from various Phase I cohorts showed a three-year overall survival rate of 68% across Phase I dosing cohorts. The frequency of treatment-related adverse events in the study were similar between cohorts, and was consistent with the Phase II and III trials for the combination therapy. 
             
    In September 2015, the FDA approved   Opdivo   in combination with   Yervoy  , for the treatment of patients with BRAF     V600 wild-type unresectable or metastatic melanoma. The announcement marked the first and only FDA approval of a regimen of two immuno-oncology agents in cancer. This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on tumor response rate and durability of response. 
                
    In July 2015, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) validated the Company s type II variation application that seeks to extend the use of   Opdivo   in combination with   Yervoy   for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in adults. The application is based on data from the Phase III CheckMate-067 study, Phase II CheckMate-069 study and the Phase Ib CA209-004 study. Validation of an application confirms that the submission is complete and starts the EMA's centralized review process.  
                
    In June 2015, the Company announced the European Commission (EC) approved   Opdivo   for the treatment of both first-line and previously treated unresectable or metastatic melanoma patients, regardless of BRAF status. The approval allows for the marketing of   Opdivo   in all 28 Member States of the EU.   Opdivo   is the only PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor to receive an accelerated assessment in Europe, and     is the first approval given by the EC for a PD-1 inhibitor in any cancer  . 
                
    In May 2015, the Company announced positive results of a Phase III trial (CheckMate-067) evaluating the   Opdivo  +  Yervoy   regimen or   Opdivo   monotherapy vs.   Yervoy   monotherapy in patients with previously untreated advanced melanoma. Both the   Opdivo+Yervoy   regimen (n=314) and   Opdivo   monotherapy (n=316) demonstrated superiority to   Yervoy   (n=315), the current standard of care, for the co-primary endpoint of progression-free survival (PFS). Median PFS was 11.5 months for the   Opdivo+Yervoy   regimen and 6.9 months for   Opdivo   monotherapy, vs. 2.9 months for   Yervoy   monotherapy. The   Opdivo  +  Yervoy   regimen demonstrated a 58% reduction in the risk of disease progression vs.   Yervoy   (hazard ratio: 0.42; 99.5% CI, 0.31 to 0.57; P 0.0001), while   Opdivo   monotherapy demonstrated a 43% risk reduction versus   Yervoy   monotherapy (hazard ratio: 0.57; 99.5% CI, 0.43 to 0.76; P 0.00001). The hazard ratio for the exploratory endpoint comparing   Opdivo+Yervoy   PFS and   Opdivo   PFS was 0.74 (95% CI, 0.60 to 0.92). The safety profile was consistent with previously-reported studies evaluating the   Opdivo+Yervoy   regimen. The treatment-related adverse event rate was 95.5% for the   Opdivo+Yervoy   regimen compared to 82.1% for   Opdivo   monotherapy and 86.2% for   Yervoy   monotherapy  .   Most select treatment-related adverse events were resolved using established management guidelines. The trial is ongoing and patients continue to be followed for overall survival, a co-primary endpoint. 
                
    In April 2015, the Company announced positive results from a Phase II trial (CheckMate-069), evaluating the   Opdivo  +  Yervoy   regimen versus   Yervoy   alone in patients with previously untreated advanced melanoma. Patients with BRAF wild-type mutation status treated with the   Opdivo+Yervoy   regimen experienced a higher objective response rate (ORR) of 61% (n=44/72)   the primary study endpoint   compared to 11% (n=4/37) for patients administered   Yervoy   monotherapy (P 0.001). Complete responses were also reported in 22% (n=16) of patients with BRAF wild-type mutation status administered the   Opdivo+Yervoy   regimen and in no patients who received   Yervoy   monotherapy. Similar results were also observed in BRAF mutation-positive patients. 
     NSCLC 
             
    In December 2015, the Company and Ono announced that Ono received manufacturing and marketing approval for   Opdivo   in Japan for the treatment of patients with unresectable, advanced or recurrent NSCLC. 
                
    In November 2015, the Company announced the EC approved the reconciliation of indications for nivolumab under the   Opdivo   European Marketing Authorization Application (MAA). In compliance with EC regulations, BMS previously submitted two separate MAAs to the EMA; one under the name   Opdivo   for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic melanoma in adults, and one under the name Nivolumab BMS for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic SQ NSCLC after prior chemotherapy. An application to reconcile these two indications was then submitted under the   Opdivo   brand name. Following approval for both of these indications by the EC earlier this year, the Company voluntarily withdrew the Marketing Authorization under the Nivolumab BMS brand name. This withdrawal has no impact for SQ NSCLC patients taking nivolumab since   Opdivo   is now approved for the treatment of SQ NSCLC, as well as for melanoma. 
                
    In October 2015, the Company announced the FDA approved   Opdivo   for the treatment of previously treated patients with NSQ  NSCLC regardless of PD-L1 expression, which expands upon the current indication for   Opdivo   in patients with previously treated SQ NSCLC. 
                
    In September 2015, the Company announced longer term (18 month) survival data from CheckMate-057, an open-label, randomized Phase III study evaluating   Opdivo   (n=292) versus docetaxel (n=290) in previously treated patients with advanced NSQ NSCLC.   Opdivo   continued to demonstrate superior overall survival   the study s primary endpoint   with an estimated 39% of patients alive at 18 months (95% CI, 34-45) versus 23% for docetaxel, based on a minimum follow-up of 17.1 months.   Opdivo   also continued to demonstrate a reduction in the risk of death by 28% (a hazard ratio of 0.72; 95% CI, 0.60 - 0.88). In  
       52 

the study, Grade 3-4 treatment-related adverse events were reported in 10% of patients treated with   Opdivo   versus 54% in the docetaxel arm. 
             
    In September 2015, the Company announced updated results from the   Opdivo+Yervoy   arms in CheckMate-012, a multi-arm Phase Ib trial evaluating   Opdivo   in patients with chemotherapy-na ve advanced NSCLC. In this study,   Opdivo   was administered as monotherapy or as part of a combination with other agents, including   Yervoy  , at different doses and schedules. Results from other cohorts in CheckMate-012 have been previously-unreported. These updated results include findings from the administration of four new dosing schedules of   Opdivo+Yervoy   (n=148), which resulted in confirmed objective response rates ranging from 13% to 39% depending on the administered regimen. Median duration of response was not reached in any of these arms with a median follow-up of 6.2 months to 16.6 months, and median progression-free survival PFS ranged from 4.9 months to 10.6 months. The types of treatment-related serious adverse events reported in these cohorts for CheckMate-012 were consistent with other previously-reported   Opdivo+Yervoy   cohorts of this trial. The new dosing schedules in this study resulted in less toxicity than previously-reported dosing schedules, and were characterized by low frequency of treatment-related adverse events leading to discontinuation (3% to 10%) and no treatment-related deaths. 
                
    In September 2015, the Company announced longer term survival and safety data from CheckMate-017 and -063, two pivotal trials evaluating   Opdivo   in previously treated SQ NSCLC, showing sustained survival benefit across these studies. In both trials,   Opdivo   showed an estimated 18 month overall survival rate of 27% (CheckMate-063) to 28% (CheckMate-017); survival benefit was independent of PD-L1 expression. The safety profile of   Opdivo   is consistent with previously-reported trials, and in CheckMate-017, is also favorable compared to docetaxel. 
                
    In July 2015, the EMA validated the Company s type II variation application that seeks to extend the use of   Opdivo   monotherapy in NSQ NSCLC and is based on data from the Phase III CheckMate-057 study. 
                
    In July 2015, the Company announced the EC approved Nivolumab BMS for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic SQ NSCLC after prior chemotherapy. This approval marks the first major treatment advance in SQ NSCLC in more than a decade in the EU. Nivolumab is the first and only PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor to demonstrate overall survival in previously-treated metastatic SQ NSCLC. 
                
    In May 2015, the Company announced results from CheckMate-017, a Phase III, open-label, randomized study evaluating   Opdivo   (n=135) versus docetaxel (n=137) in previously treated patients with advanced SQ NSCLC. At one year,   Opdivo   demonstrated an overall survival rate of 42% versus 24% for docetaxel, with a median overall survival of 9.2 months versus 6 months, respectively.   Opdivo   reduced the risk of death by 41%, based upon a hazard ratio of 0.59 (95% CI, 0.44-0.79; P = 0.00025). The safety profile of   Opdivo   in CheckMate-017 was consistent with prior studies and favorable versus docetaxel. 
                
    In May 2015, the Company announced that   Opdivo   was the first PD-1 inhibitor to demonstrate superior overall survival versus standard of care (docetaxel) in an open-label, randomized Phase III study (CheckMate-057) evaluating previously-treated patients with advanced, NSQ NSCLC. A 27% reduction in the risk of progression or death   the primary study endpoint   was reported for   Opdivo   (n=292) versus docetaxel (n=290) based upon a hazard ratio of 0.73 (96% CI, 0.59-0.89; P=0.0015).   Opdivo   was associated with a doubling of overall median survival across the continuum of PD-L1 expression, starting at 1% level of expression, in the trial. The safety profile of   Opdivo   in CheckMate-057 was favorable versus docetaxel with grade 3 5 treatment-related adverse events reported in 10% of patients who were treated with   Opdivo   versus 54% in the docetaxel arm. In April 2015, the Company announced that Checkmate-057 was stopped early because an assessment conducted by the independent DMC concluded that the study met its primary endpoint. 
                
    In March 2015, the Company announced the FDA approved   Opdivo   for the treatment of patients with advanced SQ NSCLC with progression on or after platinum-based chemotherapy.   Opdivo   is the first and only PD-1 therapy to demonstrate overall survival  in previously treated advanced SQ NSCLC.   Opdivo   demonstrated significantly superior overall survival vs. docetaxel, with a 41% reduction in the risk of death (hazard ratio: 0.59 [95% CI: 0.44, 0.79; p=0.00025]), in a prespecified interim analysis of a Phase III clinical trial. The median overall survival was 9.2 months in the   Opdivo   arm (95% CI: 7.3, 13.3) and 6 months in the docetaxel arm (95% CI: 5.1, 7.3). 
     Other indications 
             
    In November 2015, the Company announced the FDA approved   Opdivo   for the treatment of patients with advanced RCC who have received prior anti-angiogenic therapy. 
                
    In November 2015, the Company announced the EMA validated a type II variation application, which seeks to extend the current indication for   Opdivo   to include the treatment of adult patients with advanced RCC after prior therapy. Validation of the application confirms the submission is complete and begins the EMA s centralized review process. 
                
    In September 2015, the Company announced results from CheckMate-025, a Phase III study comparing   Opdivo   to everolimus in advanced RCC after prior anti-angiogenic treatment, showing a significant overall survival benefit for   Opdivo  . In the trial,   Opdivo   demonstrated a median overall survival benefit of 25 months compared to 19.6 months for everolimus. Clinical benefit for   Opdivo   was observed regardless of level of PD-L1 expression. The safety profile shown     in CheckMate-025     is consistent with  
       53 

previously reported   Opdivo   trials. In July 2015, the Company announced that CheckMate-025 was stopped early because an assessment by the independent DMC concluded that the study met its primary endpoint. 
             
    In May 2015, the Company announced results from an interim analysis of CA209-040, a Phase I/II dose-ranging trial evaluating the safety and anti-tumor activity of   Opdivo   in previously-treated patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) or advanced liver cancer. Initial findings demonstrated that the estimated survival rate in evaluable patients (n=47) was 62% at 12 months. Results also show the safety profile of   Opdivo   is generally consistent with that previously reported for   Opdivo   in other tumor types.  
       
  Empliciti   - a humanized monoclonal antibody for the treatment of multiple myeloma.   Empliciti   is part of our alliance with AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie). 
             
    In January 2016, the Company and AbbVie announced the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the EMA has adopted a positive opinion recommending that   Empliciti   be granted approval for the treatment of multiple myeloma as combination therapy with   Revlimid*   and dexamethasone in patients who have received at least one prior therapy. The application now will be reviewed by the EC, which has the authority to approve medicines for the EU. 
                
    In December 2015, the Company and AbbVie announced extended follow-up data and a pre-specified interim overall survival analysis of   Empliciti   in combination with   Revlimid*   and dexamethasone (ERd) in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma from ELOQUENT-2. The follow-up data demonstrated that   Empliciti   in combination with Rd had an improvement in progression-free survival with a hazard ratio (HR) of 0.73 (95% CI: 0.60, 0.89; p="0".0014) versus Rd alone. This result was consistent with the improvement in PFS that was observed at the time of the primary analysis (HR 0.70 [95% CI: 0.57, 0.85; p = 0.0004]). 
                
    In November 2015, the Company and AbbVie announced the FDA approved   Empliciti   for the treatment of multiple myeloma as a combination therapy with   Revlimid*   and dexamethasone in patients who have received one to three prior therapies.  
                
    In June 2015, the Company and AbbVie announced that results from an interim analysis of its Phase III, randomized, open-label ELOQUENT-2 trial. The trial (n=646) evaluated   Empliciti   in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone (ELd) versus lenalidomide and dexamethasone alone (Ld) for the treatment of relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. The study met its co-primary endpoints demonstrating superior PFS and ORR. The ELd arm demonstrated a 30% reduction in the risk of disease progression or death compared to the Ld arm (HR 0.70, 95% CI, [0.57, 0.85]; p = 0.0004). The PFS rates in the ELd arm versus the Ld arm were 68% versus 57% at 1 year and 41% versus 27% at 2 years, respectively. A significant ORR also was observed with 79% (74% to 83%) in the ELd arm compared to 66% (60% to 71%) in the Ld arm (odds ratio, 1.9; 1.4 to 2.8; p=0.0002). The safety profile was consistent with previously-reported studies and there were minimal incremental adverse events with the addition of   Empliciti   to lenalidomide and dexamethasone. 
       
  Sprycel   - an oral inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinases indicated for the first-line treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in chronic phase (CP) and the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase CML with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including   Gleevec*   (imatinib mesylate).   Sprycel   is part of our alliance with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd (Otsuka). 
             
    In August 2015, the Company and Otsuka  announced the FDA approved an update to the   Sprycel   product labeling. The labeling now includes five-year efficacy and safety data in adult patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) CML in CP and seven-year data in CP Ph+ CML patients who are resistant or intolerant to prior therapy, including   Gleevec*   (imatinib mesylate). 
       
  Yervoy   - a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma 
             
    In October 2015, the Company announced the FDA approved   Yervoy   for the adjuvant treatment of patients with cutaneous melanoma with pathologic involvement of regional lymph nodes of more than 1 mm who have undergone complete resection including total lymphadenectomy.  
                
    In October 2015, the Company announced a   Yervoy   Phase III trial, Study-104 in subjects with stage IV/recurrent NSCLC, which compared the efficacy of   Yervoy   in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin versus placebo, and versus paclitaxel and carboplatin alone did not meet the primary endpoint of overall survival for the   Yervoy   treatment arms and has been discontinued. No new safety concerns with   Yervoy   were identified in either study. The Company will complete a full evaluation of the data and work with investigators on the future publication of the results. 
                
    In July 2015, the Company announced two   Yervoy   Phase III trials, Study-095 in metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer and Study-156 in newly diagnosed extensive-stage disease small cell lung cancer, did not meet their primary endpoints of overall survival versus standard of care and have been discontinued. No new safety concerns with   Yervoy   were identified in either study. The Company will complete a full evaluation of the data and work with investigators on the future publication of the results. 
       54 

In July 2015, the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approved   Yervoy   for first and second line treatment for unresectable malignant melanoma. 
       
  Hepatitis C Portfolio -   Daklinza   (DCV) - an NS5A replication complex inhibitor;   Sunvepra   (ASV) - an NS3 protease inhibitor; and Beclabuvir (BCV) - an NS5B non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor in development 
             
    In January 2016, the Company announced the FDA approved   Daklinza   in combination with sofosbuvir (with or without ribavirin) in genotypes 1 and 3. The expanded label includes data in three additional challenging-to-treat patient populations: chronic HCV patients with HIV-1 coinfection, advanced cirrhosis, or post-liver transplant recurrence of HCV. The   Daklinza   plus sofosbuvir regimen is already available for the treatment of chronic HCV genotype 3, and is currently the only 12-week, once-daily all-oral treatment option for these patients. Sustained virologic response (SVR) rates are reduced in genotype 3 patients with cirrhosis receiving   Daklinza   and sofosbuvir for 12 weeks without ribavirin. Sofosbuvir is a product of Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead). 
                
    In January 2016, the Company announced the EC approved   Daklinza   for the treatment of chronic HCV in three new patient populations. The expanded label allows for the use of   Daklinza   in combination with sofosbuvir (with or without ribavirin, depending on the indication and HCV genotype) in HCV patients with decompensated cirrhosis, HIV-1 coinfection, and post-liver transplant recurrence of HCV in all 28 Member States of the EU.  
                
    In November 2015, the Company announced data from the Phase III ALLY-3+ trial investigating a regimen of   Daklinza   in combination with sofosbuvir and ribavirin in genotype 3 HCV patients with advanced fibrosis or cirrhosis, for treatment durations of 12 and 16 weeks. This patient population is one of the most difficult to treat, among whom SVR rates, or cure, have proved harder to achieve. The results show that 100% of patients in the advanced fibrosis  cohort achieved SVR12 in both the 12- and 16-week arms of the study. SVR12 rates were 83% and 89% in patients with cirrhosis in the 12- and 16-week arms, respectively. 
                
    In October 2015, the Company announced the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence     (NICE) has recommended   Daklinza     in England and Wales for the treatment of adult patients with chronic HCV. Specifically, NICE recommended   Daklinza   to treat certain patients with HCV genotypes 1, 3 and 4. Approximately 214,000 people in the UK are thought to have chronic HCV, and roughly 100,000 of those patients are estimated to have genotype 3, a difficult-to-treat and often aggressive form of chronic HCV. 
                
    In September 2015, the Company announced the EC approved an updated label for   Daklinza   for the treatment of genotype 3 chronic HCV. The update allows the use of   Daklinza   in combination with sofosbuvir for 12 weeks in patients without cirrhosis in all 28 Member States of the EU, and marks the first time these patients with genotype 3 HCV have a once-daily, all-oral treatment regimen of this shorter duration. 
                
    In July 2015, the Company announced the FDA approved   Daklinza   for use with sofosbuvir     for the treatment of patients with chronic HCV genotype 3. This approval marks the first time patients with chronic HCV genotype 3 have a 12-week, once-daily, all-oral treatment option. SVR rates were reduced in HCV genotype 3-infected patients with cirrhosis receiving this regimen. 
                
    In July 2015, the Company announced that it does not plan to seek regulatory approval of the new drug application of the HCV triple-regimen, or TRIO, of DCV, ASV and BCV, in the United States or in Europe. 
                
    In May 2015, the Company announced the FDA amended a previously granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation for the investigational daclatasvir and sofosbuvir combination for use in HCV patients. The updated Designation reflects recently presented data on HCV genotype 1 patients with advanced cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class B or C) and those who develop genotype 1 HCV recurrence post-liver transplant.  
                
    In April 2015, the Company announced the primary endpoints were successfully met in ALLY-1, a Phase III clinical trial evaluating a 12-week, combination of daclatasvir and sofosbuvir once-daily with ribavirin for the treatment of patients with chronic HCV with either advanced cirrhosis or post-liver transplant recurrence of HCV.  
                
    In February 2015, the Company announced results from ALLY-2, a Phase III clinical trial evaluating the investigational once-daily combination of daclatasvir and sofosbuvir for the treatment of patients with chronic HCV coinfected with HIV   a patient population that historically has been challenging to treat in large part due to potential drug-drug interactions between the therapy regimens used to treat each infection. Among ALLY-2 patients treated for 12 weeks (treatment-na ve and -experienced), 97% (n=149/153) achieved cure (SVR12 weeks after treatment). The study met the primary endpoint, with 96% (n=80/83) of treatment-na ve genotype 1 patients achieving SVR12. Treatment with daclatasvir in combination with sofosbuvir in this study showed high SVR rates, with no discontinuations due to adverse events, and no serious adverse events related to study medications throughout the treatment phase. 
                
    In February 2015, the FDA notified the Company of its intention to rescind the Breakthrough Therapy Designation for certain genotype 1 HCV regimens related to daclatasvir and other investigational BMS therapies. This will not impact our current submission/resubmission timetable of the NDA for daclatasvir in combination with other antiviral agents for the treatment of HCV. 
       
    55 

Reyataz     Franchise   - a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, which includes   Reyataz   and is also included in the combination therapy,   Evotaz   (atazanavir 300 mg and cobicistat 150 mg).   Evotaz   is part of a license agreement with Gilead. 
             
    In July 2015, the Company announced the EC approved   Evotaz   for the treatment of HIV-1 infected adults without known mutations associated with resistance to atazanavir.   Evotaz   is a once-daily single tablet two drug regimen combining   Reyataz   and   Tybost*  .   Tybost*   is a product of Gilead. 
                
    In June 2015, the FDA granted pediatric exclusivity for   Reyataz   which provides an additional six month period of exclusivity in the U.S. 
                
    In January 2015, the Company announced the FDA approved   Evotaz   for the treatment of the HIV-1 infection in adults, a once-daily single tablet two drug regimen combining   Reyataz   and   Tybost*  . 
       
  Orencia -   a fusion protein indicated for adult patients with moderate to severe active RA and is also indicated for reducing signs and symptoms in certain pediatric patients with moderately to severely active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis. 
             
    In June 2015, the Company announced data from the   Orencia   Phase IIIb AVERT and AMPLE trials. These trials included early moderate to severe RA patients with active disease. AVERT trial data suggests potentially faster onset of clinical response and greater drug-free clinical remission with earlier use in patients taking   Orencia   plus methotrexate over patients taking methotrexate alone. Exploratory data of patients with high anti-citrullinated protein antibody levels at baseline in the AMPLE trial suggest better response with   Orencia   than with adalimumab. Adalimumab is a product of AbbVie. 
                
    In April 2015, the EMA approved the ClickJect Pre-Filled Pen, a new autoinjector delivery device for   Orencia   for use in adult patients in the EU who have moderate to severe active RA in combination with methotrexate after inadequate disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug response.  
       
  Eliquis   - an oral Factor Xa inhibitor, targeted at stroke prevention in NVAF and the prevention and treatment of VTE disorders.   Eliquis   is part of our alliance with Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer). 
             
    In December 2015, the Company and Pfizer announced results from a post-hoc early time course subanalysis of the Phase III AMPLIFY trial. The subanalysis demonstrated   Eliquis   was comparable to conventional therapy (subcutaneous enoxaparin overlapped and followed by oral warfarin dose-adjusted to an international normalized ratio of 2.0 to 3.0) in recurrent VTE and VTE-related death with significantly less major bleeding during the first 7, 21 and 90 days after starting treatment. Results of the subanalyses were consistent with the overall results of the   Eliquis   Phase III AMPLIFY trial. 
                
    In September 2015, the Company and Pfizer announced the first patient has been enrolled into the Phase IV clinical trial, AUGUSTUS which will evaluate the safety of   Eliquis   versus warfarin or other vitamin K antagonists in patients with NVAF and a recent acute coronary syndrome or undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention, also known as a stent. 
         
  Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 
    
  This annual report on Form 10-K (including documents incorporated by reference) and other written and oral statements we make from time to time contain certain  forward-looking  statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the fact they use words such as  should ,  expect ,  anticipate ,  estimate ,  target ,  may ,  project ,  guidance ,  intend ,  plan ,  believe  and other words and terms of similar meaning and expression in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. One can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes to differ materially from current expectations. These statements are likely to relate to, among other things, our goals, plans and projections regarding our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, market position, product development, product approvals, sales efforts, expenses, performance or results of current and anticipated products and the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings and financial results, which are based on current expectations that involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including internal or external factors that could delay, divert or change any of them in the next several years. We have included important factors in the cautionary statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly under  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement. 
    
  Although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 
    56 

Item 7A. 
    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. 

We are exposed to market risk resulting from changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Certain derivative financial instruments are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge our underlying economic exposure. All of our financial instruments, including derivatives, are subject to counterparty credit risk considered as part of the overall fair value measurement. Derivative financial instruments are not used for trading purposes. 
    
  Foreign Exchange Risk 
    
  Significant amounts of our revenues, earnings and cash flow are exposed to changes in foreign currency rates. Our primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the euro, Japanese yen, Chinese renminbi, Canadian dollar and South Korean won. Foreign currency forward contracts used to manage risk which primarily arises from certain intercompany purchase transactions are designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges when appropriate. In addition, we are exposed to foreign exchange transaction risk arising from non-functional currency denominated assets and liabilities and earnings denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies. Foreign currency forward contracts used to offset these exposures are not designated as hedges. 
    
  We estimate that a 10% appreciation in the underlying currencies being hedged from their levels against the U.S. dollar (with all other variables held constant) would decrease the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts by $144 million at December 31,   2015  , reducing earnings over the remaining life of the contracts. 
    
  We are also exposed to translation risk on non-U.S. dollar-denominated net assets. Non-U.S. dollar borrowings used to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign affiliates and are designated as hedges of net investments. The effective portion of foreign exchange gains or losses on these hedges is included in the foreign currency translation component of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss). If our net investment decreases below the equivalent value of the non-U.S. debt borrowings, the change in the remeasurement basis of the debt would be subject to recognition in income as changes occur. For additional information, refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   10  . Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements.  
    
  Interest Rate Risk 
    
  We use fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges and forward starting interest rate swap contracts designated as cash flow hedges as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. These contracts are intended to provide us with an appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate debt, and forward starting swap contracts are used to manage the interest rate of future debt issuances. We estimate that an increase of 100 basis points in short-term or long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of our interest rate swap contracts by $58 million, or a decrease of 100 basis points in short-term or long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of our forward starting interest rate swap contracts by $122 million, thereby reducing earnings over the remaining life of the contracts. 
    
  We estimate that an increase of 100 basis points in long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of long-term debt by $591 million. Our marketable securities are subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest rate fluctuations and other market factors. Our policy is to invest only in institutions that meet high credit quality standards. We estimate that an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates in general would decrease the fair value of our debt security portfolio by approximately $123 million. 
    
  Credit Risk 
    
  Although not material, certain European government-backed entities with a higher risk of default, such as Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain, are monitored through economic factors, including credit ratings, credit-default swap rates, debt-to-gross domestic product ratios and other entity specific factors. Historically, our exposure was limited by factoring receivables. Our credit exposures in Europe may increase in the future due to reductions in our factoring arrangements and the ongoing sovereign debt crisis. 
    
  We monitor our investments with counterparties with the objective of minimizing concentrations of credit risk. Our investment policy establishes limits on the amount and time to maturity of investments with any individual counterparty. The policy also requires that investments are only entered into with corporate and financial institutions that meet high credit quality standards. 
    
  The use of derivative instruments exposes us to credit risk. When the fair value of a derivative instrument contract is positive, we are exposed to credit risk if the counterparty fails to perform. When the fair value of a derivative instrument contract is negative, the counterparty is exposed to credit risk if we fail to perform our obligation. Collateral is not required by any party whether derivatives are in an asset or liability position. We have a policy of diversifying derivatives with counterparties to mitigate the overall risk of counterparty defaults. For additional information, refer to  Item 8. Financial Statements Note   10  . Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements.  
    57 

Item 8. 
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA. 

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS 
  Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Data 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
  Dollars in Millions 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
    58 

      BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  Dollars in Millions, Except Share and Per Share Data 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
    59 

      BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  Dollars in Millions 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
    60 

Note   1  . ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
    
  Basis of Consolidation 
    
  The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), including the accounts of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and all of its controlled majority-owned subsidiaries and certain variable interest entities (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, or the Company). All intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. Material subsequent events are evaluated and disclosed through the report issuance date. 
    
  Alliance and license arrangements are assessed to determine whether the terms provide economic or other control over the entity requiring consolidation of an entity. Entities controlled by means other than a majority voting interest are referred to as variable interest entities and are consolidated when BMS has both the power to direct the activities of the variable interest entity that most significantly impacts its economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the entity. 
    
  Use of Estimates 
    
  The preparation of financial statements requires the use of management estimates and assumptions. The most significant assumptions are estimates in determining the fair value and potential impairment of intangible assets; sales rebate and return accruals; legal contingencies; income taxes; estimated selling prices used in multiple element arrangements; and pension and postretirement benefits. Actual results may differ from estimated results. 
    
  Reclassifications 
    
  Certain prior period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Advertising and product promotion costs previously presented separately in the consolidated statements of earnings are now included in marketing, selling and administrative expenses. 
    
  Revenue Recognition 
    
  Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the sales price is fixed or determinable, collectability is reasonably assured and title and substantially all risks and rewards of ownership is transferred, generally at time of shipment (including the supply of commercial products to alliance partners when they are the principal in the end customer sale). However, certain revenue of non-U.S. businesses is recognized on the date of receipt by the customer. Alliance and other revenue related to   Abilify*   and   Atripla*   is not recognized until the products are sold to the end customer by the alliance partner. Royalties are recognized when the third-party sales are reliably measurable and collectability is reasonably assured. Refer to   Note   3  . Alliances  for further detail regarding alliances. 
    
  Revenue is reduced at the time of recognition for expected sales returns, discounts, rebates and sales allowances based on historical experience updated for changes in facts and circumstances including the impact of applicable healthcare legislation. Revenue is deferred when there is no historical experience with products in a similar therapeutic category, or until the right of return no longer exists or sufficient historical experience to estimate sales returns is developed. 
    
  Income Taxes 
    
  The provision for income taxes includes income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus the change in deferred taxes during the year. Deferred taxes result from differences between the financial and tax basis of assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is required often requires significant judgment including the long-range forecast of future taxable income and the evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period when such assessments are made. 
    
  Tax benefits are recognized from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefit recognized in the financial statements for a particular tax position is based on the largest benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement. 
    
    61 

Cash and Cash Equivalents 
    
  Cash and cash equivalents include bank deposits, time deposits, commercial paper and money market funds. Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase and are recognized at cost, which approximates fair value. 
    
  Marketable Securities and Investments in Other Companies 
    
  Marketable securities are classified as  available-for-sale  on the date of purchase and reported at fair value. Fair value is determined based on observable market quotes or valuation models using assessments of counterparty credit worthiness, credit default risk or underlying security and overall capital market liquidity. 
    
  Investments in 50% or less owned companies are accounted for using the equity method of accounting when the ability to exercise significant influence is maintained. The share of net income or losses of equity investments is included in other (income)/expense. Equity investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing if the decline in market value of the investment below the carrying value is other than temporary, which considers the intent and ability to retain the investment, the duration and extent that the market value has been less than cost and the investee's financial condition. 
    
  Inventory Valuation 
    
  Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or market. 
    
  Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation 
    
  Expenditures for additions, renewals and improvements are capitalized at cost. Depreciation is computed on a straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the related assets ranging from   20   to   50   years for buildings and   3   to   20   years for machinery, equipment and fixtures. 
    
  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets 
    
  Current facts or circumstances are periodically evaluated to determine if the carrying value of depreciable assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows generated by the long-lived asset, or appropriate grouping of assets, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists at its lowest level of identifiable cash flows. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset s fair value and its carrying value. An estimate of the asset s fair value is based on quoted market prices in active markets, if available. If quoted market prices are not available, the estimate of fair value is based on various valuation techniques using Level 3 fair value inputs, including a discounted value of estimated future cash flows. 
    
  Capitalized Software 
    
  Eligible costs to obtain internal use software are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software.  
    
  Business Combinations 
    
  Businesses acquired are consolidated upon obtaining control. The fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at the date of acquisition. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill. Business acquisition costs are expensed when incurred. 
    
  Goodwill, Acquired In-Process Research and Development and Other Intangible Assets 
    
  The fair value of intangible assets is typically determined using the  income method  utilizing Level 3 fair value inputs. The market participant valuations assume a global view considering all potential jurisdictions and indications based on discounted after-tax cash flow projections, risk adjusted for estimated probability of technical and regulatory success (for IPRD). 
    
  Finite-lived intangible assets, including licenses, developed technology rights and IPRD projects that reach commercialization are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life. Estimated useful lives are determined considering the period the assets are expected to contribute to future cash flows. 
    
    62 

Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment by assessing qualitative factors or performing a quantitative analysis in determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of net assets are below their carrying amounts. Examples of qualitative factors assessed in   2015   include our share price, financial performance compared to budgets, long-term financial plans, macroeconomic, industry and market conditions as well as the substantial excess of fair value over the carrying value of net assets from the annual impairment test performed in a prior year. Each relevant factor is assessed both individually and in the aggregate. 
    
  IPRD is tested for impairment on an annual basis and more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate a potential reduction in the fair values of the assets below their carrying value. If the carrying value of IPRD is determined to exceed the fair value, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference. 
    
  Finite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment when facts or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. If the carrying value exceeds the projected undiscounted pretax cash flows of the intangible asset, an impairment loss equal to the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value (discounted after-tax cash flows) is recognized. 
    
  Restructuring 
    
  Restructuring charges are recognized as a result of actions to streamline operations and rationalize manufacturing facilities. Estimating the impact of restructuring plans, including future termination benefits and other exit costs requires judgment. Actual results could vary from these estimates. 
    
  Contingencies 
    
  Loss contingencies from legal proceedings and claims may occur from a wide range of matters, including government investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and environmental liability, contractual claims and tax matters. Accruals are recognized when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Gain contingencies (including contingent proceeds related to the divestitures) are not recognized until realized. Legal fees are expensed as incurred. 
    
  Shipping and Handling Costs 
    
  Shipping and handling costs are included in marketing, selling and administrative expenses and were   $85 million   in   2015  ,   $115 million   in   2014   and   $119 million   in   2013  . 
    
  Advertising and Product Promotion Costs 
    
  Advertising and product promotion costs are included in marketing, selling and administrative expenses and were   $825 million   in   2015  ,   $734 million   in   2014   and   $855 million   in   2013  . Advertising and product promotion costs are expensed as incurred.  
    
  Foreign Currency Translation 
    
  Foreign subsidiary earnings are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The net assets of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net assets of these subsidiaries at changing rates are recognized in OCI. 
    
  Research and Development 
    
  Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical study costs are accrued over the service periods specified in the contracts and adjusted as necessary based upon an ongoing review of the level of effort and costs actually incurred. Strategic alliances with third parties provide licensing rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products, the rights to which are owned by the other party. Research and development is recognized net of reimbursements in connection with alliance agreements. Upfront and contingent milestone payments for asset acquisitions of investigational compounds are also included in research and development expenses. 
    
  Cash Flow 
    
  Upfront and contingent milestone payments for licensing of investigational compounds are included in operating activities and asset or business acquisitions are included in investing activities. Divestiture proceeds are included in investing activities as well as royalties and other consideration received subsequent to the related sale of the asset or business. Other adjustments reflected in operating activities include divestiture gains and losses and related royalties, research and development asset acquisition charges, gains and losses on debt redemption and changes in the fair value of written option liabilities. 
    
    63 

Recently Issued Accounting Standards 
    
  In January 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued amended guidance to the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosures of financial instruments effective January 1, 2018 with early adoption not permitted. The new guidance requires that fair value adjustments for equity securities with readily determinable fair values currently classified as available-for-sale be reported through earnings. The new guidance also requires a qualitative impairment assessment for equity investments without a readily determinable fair value and would require an impairment charge through earnings if the assessment indicates an impairment exists. The Company is assessing the potential impact of the new standard on our consolidated financial statements.  
    
  In November 2015, the FASB issued amended guidance on the presentation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. The new guidance requires all deferred tax assets and liabilities to be classified as non-current. BMS elected to early adopt this standard as of December 31, 2015 prospectively. Refer to " Note   8  . Income taxes" for further information.  
    
  In April 2015, the FASB issued amended guidance on the presentation of debt issuance costs. The new guidance requires debt issuance costs to be presented as a reduction to the carrying value of debt in the balance sheet, consistent with debt discounts. BMS elected to early adopt this standard as of December 31, 2015. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Refer to " Note   10  . Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements" for further information.  
    
  In May 2014, the FASB issued a new standard related to revenue recognition, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The new standard will replace most of the existing revenue recognition standards in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective. In July 2015, the FASB decided to delay the effective date by one year to January 1, 2018. Early adoption is permitted no earlier than 2017. The new standard can be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of the change recognized at the date of the initial application in retained earnings. The Company is assessing the potential impact of the new standard on financial reporting and has not yet selected a transition method. 
    
  In April 2014, the FASB issued amended guidance on the use and presentation of discontinued operations in an entity's consolidated financial statements. The new guidance restricts the presentation of discontinued operations to business circumstances when the disposal of business operations represents a strategic shift that has or will have a major effect on an entity's operations and financial results. The guidance became effective on January 1, 2015. 
    Note   2  . BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION 
  BMS operates in a single segment engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. A global research and development organization and supply chain organization are responsible for the discovery, development, manufacturing and supply of products. Regional commercial organizations market, distribute and sell the products. The business is also supported by global corporate staff functions. Segment information is consistent with the financial information regularly reviewed by the chief executive officer for purposes of evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting future periods. 
  Products are sold principally to wholesalers, and to a lesser extent, directly to distributors, retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies. Gross revenues to the   three   largest pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. as a percentage of global gross revenues were as follows: 

Selected geographic area information was as follows: 

(a) 
    Other revenues include royalties and alliance-related revenues for products not sold by our regional commercial organizations. 
       64 

Product revenues were as follows: 

The composition of total revenues was as follows: 

Note   3  . ALLIANCES 
    
  BMS enters into collaboration arrangements with third parties for the development and commercialization of certain products. Although each of these arrangements is unique in nature, both parties are active participants in the operating activities of the collaboration and exposed to significant risks and rewards depending on the commercial success of the activities. BMS may either in-license intellectual property owned by the other party or out-license its intellectual property to the other party. These arrangements also typically include research, development, manufacturing, and/or commercial activities and can cover a single investigational compound or commercial product or multiple compounds and/or products in various life cycle stages. The rights and obligations of the parties can be global or limited to geographic regions. We refer to these collaborations as alliances and our partners as alliance partners. Several key products such as   Sustiva   (  Atripla*  ),   Empliciti  ,   Erbitux*, Opdivo  ,   Sprycel  ,   Yervoy  ,   Abilify*  ,   Orencia   and   Eliquis  , as well as products comprising the diabetes alliance discussed below and certain mature and other brands were included in alliance arrangements. 
    
  Payments between alliance partners are accounted for and presented in the results of operations after considering the specific nature of the payment and the underlying activities to which the payments relate. Multiple alliance activities, including the transfer of rights, are only separated into individual units of accounting if they have standalone value from other activities that occur over the life of the arrangements. In these situations, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the activities or rights on a relative selling price basis. If multiple alliance activities or rights do not have standalone value, they are combined into a single unit of accounting. 
    
    65 

The most common activities between BMS and its alliance partners are presented in results of operations as follows: 

When BMS is the principal in the end customer sale,   100%   of product sales are included in net product sales. When BMS's alliance partner is the principal in the end customer sale, BMS's contractual share of the third-party sales and/or royalty income are included in alliance and other revenue as the sale of commercial products are considered part of BMS's ongoing major or central operations. Refer to "Revenue Recognition" included in " Note 1. Accounting Policies" for information regarding recognition criteria. 
                
    Amounts payable to BMS by alliance partners (who are the principal in the end customer sale) for supply of commercial products are included in alliance and other revenue as the sale of commercial products are considered part of BMS's ongoing major or central operations. 
                
    Profit sharing, royalties and other sales-based fees payable by BMS to alliance partners are included in cost of products sold as incurred. 
                
    Cost reimbursements between the parties are recognized as incurred and included in cost of products sold; marketing, selling and administrative expenses; or research and development expenses, based on the underlying nature of the related activities subject to reimbursement. 
                
    Upfront and contingent development and approval milestones payable to BMS by alliance partners for investigational compounds and commercial products are deferred and amortized over the shorter of the contractual term or the periods in which the related compounds or products are expected to contribute to future cash flows. The amortization is presented consistent with the nature of the payment under the arrangement. For example, amounts received for investigational compounds are presented in other (income)/expense as the activities being performed at that time are not related to the sale of commercial products that are part of BMS s ongoing major or central operations; amounts received for commercial products are presented in alliance and other revenue as the sale of commercial products are considered part of BMS s ongoing major or central operations (except for the AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca) alliance pertaining to the Amylin products - see further discussion under the specific AstraZeneca alliance disclosure herein). 
                
    Upfront and contingent approval milestones payable by BMS to alliance partners for commercial products are capitalized and amortized over the shorter of the contractual term or the periods in which the related products are expected to contribute to future cash flows. The amortization is included in cost of products sold. 
                
    Upfront and contingent milestones payable by BMS to alliance partners prior to regulatory approval are expensed as incurred and included in research and development expenses. 
                
    Royalties and other contingent consideration payable to BMS by alliance partners related to the divestiture of such businesses are included in other income when earned. 
                
    Equity in net income of affiliates is included in other (income)/expense. 
                
    All payments between BMS and its alliance partners are presented in cash flows from operating activities, except as otherwise described below. 
       
    66 

Selected financial information pertaining to our alliances was as follows, including net product sales when BMS is the principal in the third-party customer sale for products subject to the alliance. Expenses summarized below do not include all amounts attributed to the activities for the products in the alliance, but only the payments between the alliance partners or the related amortization if the payments were deferred or capitalized. 

BMS entered into certain licensing and alliance agreements in   2015   (including options to license or acquire the related assets). Upfront payments for these new agreements charged to research and development expenses were   $619 million   in   2015  . The prior period amounts disclosed in research and development expenses for upfront payments to alliance partners were revised to include similar type of payments. 
    
  Specific information pertaining to each of our significant alliances is discussed below, including their nature and purpose; the significant rights and obligations of the parties; specific accounting policy elections; and the income statement classification of and amounts attributable to payments between the parties. 
    
  Pfizer 
    
  BMS and Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer) are parties to a worldwide co-development and co-commercialization agreement for   Eliquis  , an anticoagulant discovered by BMS. Pfizer funds between   50%   and   60%   of all development costs depending on the study. Profits and losses are shared equally on a global basis except for in certain countries where Pfizer commercializes   Eliquis   and pays BMS compensation based on a percentage of net sales.  
    
  Upon entering into the agreement, co-exclusive license rights for the product were granted to Pfizer in exchange for an upfront payment and potential milestone payments. Both parties assumed certain obligations to actively participate in the alliance and actively participate in a joint executive committee and various other operating committees and have joint responsibilities for the research, development, distribution, sales and marketing activities of the alliance using resources in their own infrastructures. BMS manufactures the product in the alliance and is the principal in the end customer product sales in the U.S., significant countries in Europe, as well as Canada, Australia, China, Japan and South Korea. In 2015, BMS transferred full commercialization rights to Pfizer in certain smaller countries in order to simplify operations. In the transferred countries, BMS supplies the product to Pfizer at cost plus a percentage of the net sales to end-customers. 
    
  The Company determined the rights transferred to Pfizer did not have standalone value as such rights were not sold separately by BMS or any other party, nor could Pfizer receive any benefit for the delivered rights without the fulfillment of other ongoing obligations by BMS under the alliance agreement, including the exclusive supply arrangement. As such, the global alliance was treated as a single unit of accounting and upfront proceeds and any subsequent contingent milestone proceeds are amortized over the life of the related product. 
    
  BMS received   $884 million   in non-refundable upfront, milestone and other licensing payments related to   Eliquis   through December 31,   2015  . Amortization of the   Eliquis   deferred income is included in other income as   Eliquis   was not a commercial product at the commencement of the alliance. 
    67 

Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows: 

Gilead 
    
  BMS and Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead) have joint ventures in the U.S. (for the U.S. and Canada) and in Europe to develop and commercialize   Atripla*   (efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), combining   Sustiva  , a product of BMS, and   Truvada*   (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), a product of Gilead. The joint ventures are consolidated by Gilead. 
    
  Both parties actively participate in a joint executive committee and various other operating committees with direct oversight over the activities of the joint ventures. The joint ventures purchase   Sustiva   and   Truvada*   active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) in bulk form from the parties and complete the finishing of   Atripla*  . The joint ventures or Gilead sell and distribute   Atripla*   and are the principal in the end customer product sales. The parties no longer coordinate joint promotional activities. 
    
  Alliance and other revenue recognized for   Atripla*   include only the bulk efavirenz component of   Atripla*   which is based on the relative ratio of the average respective net selling prices of   Truvada*   and   Sustiva.   Alliance and other revenue is deferred and the related alliance receivable is not recognized until the combined product is sold to third-party customers. 
    
  In Europe, following the 2013 loss of exclusivity of   Sustiva   and effective January 1, 2014, the percentage of   Atripla  * net sales in Europe recognized by BMS is equal to the difference between the average net selling prices of   Atripla*   and   Truvada*  . This alliance will continue in Europe until either party terminates the arrangement or the last patent expiration occurs for   Atripla*  ,   Truvada*  , or   Sustiva. 
    
  In the U.S., the agreement may be terminated by Gilead upon the launch of a generic version of   Sustiva   or by BMS upon the launch of a generic version of   Truvada*.   In the event Gilead terminates the agreement upon the loss of exclusivity for   Sustiva,   BMS will receive a quarterly royalty payment for   36 months   following termination.  Such payment in the first 12 months following termination is equal to   55%   of   Atripla*   net sales multiplied by the ratio of the difference in the average net selling prices of   Atripla*   and   Truvada*   to the   Atripla*   average net selling price. In the second and third years following termination, the payment to BMS is reduced to   35%   and   15%  , respectively, of   Atripla*   net sales multiplied by the price ratio described above. BMS will continue to supply   Sustiva   at cost plus a markup to the joint ventures during this three-year period, unless either party elects to terminate the supply arrangement. 
    
  In 2011, we entered into a licensing agreement with Gilead to develop and commercialize a fixed-dose combination containing   Reyataz   and Gilead s cobicistat, a pharmacoenhancing or  boosting  agent that increases blood levels of certain human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) medicines to potentially allow for one pill once daily dosing.   Evotaz (  atazanavir 300 mg and cobicistat 150 mg) was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in January 2015 and the European Commission (EC) in July 2015. 
    
    68 

Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows: 

Otsuka 
    
  BMS has a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), to co-develop and co-promote   Abilify*,   excluding certain Asian countries. The U.S. portion of the agreement expired in April 2015. The agreement expired in all European Union (EU) countries in June 2014 and in each other non-U.S. country where we have the exclusive right to sell   Abilify*  , the agreement expires on the later of April 20, 2015 or loss of exclusivity in any such country. 
    
  Both parties actively participated in joint executive governance and operating committees. Otsuka was responsible for providing all sales force efforts in the U.S. effective January 2013, however, BMS was responsible for certain operating expenses up to various annual limits. BMS purchased the API from Otsuka and completed the manufacturing of the product for subsequent sale to third-party customers in the U.S. and certain other countries. Otsuka assumed responsibility for providing and funding sales force efforts in the EU effective April 2013. BMS also provided certain other services including distribution, customer management and pharmacovigilence. BMS is the principal for the end customer product sales where it is the exclusive distributor for or has an exclusive right to sell   Abilify*.   Otsuka was the principal for the end customer product sales in the U.S. and in the EU.  
    
  Alliance and other revenue only includes BMS s share of total net sales to third-party customers in these territories. BMS s contractual share for U.S. net sales is set forth in the table below. An assessment of BMS's expected annual contractual share was completed each quarterly reporting period and adjusted based upon reported U.S.   Abilify*   net sales at year end. BMS's annual contractual share was   50%   in 2015,    33%   in 2014 and   34%   in 2013. The alliance and other revenue recognized in any interim period or quarter did not exceed the amounts that were due under the contract. 

BMS s contractual share of third-party net sales was   65%   in the EU. In these countries and the U.S., alliance and other revenue was recognized when   Abilify*   was shipped and all risks and rewards of ownership had been transferred to third-party customers. 
    
  BMS and Otsuka also have an alliance for   Sprycel   in the U.S., Japan and the EU (the Oncology Territory). Both parties co-promote the product in the U.S. and EU. In February 2015, the co-promotion agreement with Otsuka was terminated in Japan. Both parties actively participate in various governance committees, however, BMS has control over the decision making. BMS is responsible for the development and manufacture of the product and is also the principal in the end customer product sales.   Ixempra*   (ixabepilone) was included in the above alliance prior to BMS's divestiture of that business in 2015. A fee is paid to Otsuka based on the following percentages of combined annual net sales of   Sprycel   and   Ixempra*   in the Oncology Territory (including post divestiture   Ixempra*   sales): 

69 

During these annual periods, Otsuka contributes   20%   of the first   $175 million   of certain commercial operational expenses relating to the Oncology Products in the Oncology Territory and   1%   of such costs in excess of   $175 million  . 
    
  Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows: 

Lilly 
    
  BMS had a commercialization agreement with Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly) through Lilly s subsidiary ImClone for the co-development and promotion of   Erbitux  * in the U.S., Canada and Japan. Both parties actively participated in a joint executive committee and various other operating committees and shared responsibilities for research and development using resources in their own infrastructures. Lilly manufactured bulk requirements for   Erbitux*   in its own facilities and filling and finishing was performed by a third party for which BMS had oversight responsibility. BMS had exclusive distribution rights in North America and was responsible for promotional efforts in North America although Lilly had the right to co-promote in the U.S. at their own expense. BMS was the principal in the end customer product sales in North America and paid Lilly a distribution fee for   39%   of   Erbitux  * net sales in North America plus a share of certain royalties paid by Lilly. BMS s rights and obligations with respect to the commercialization of   Erbitux  * in North America would have expired in September 2018. 
    
  In October 2015, BMS transferred its rights to   Erbitux*   in North America to Lilly in exchange for sales-based royalties as described below. The transferred rights include, but are not limited to, full commercialization and manufacturing responsibilities. The transaction was accounted for as a business divestiture and resulted in a non-cash charge of   $171 million   for intangible assets directly related to the business and an allocation of goodwill.  
    
  BMS will receive royalties through September 2018, which is included in other income when earned. The royalty rates applicable to North America are   38%   on   Erbitux*   net sales up to $165 million in 2015, $650 million in 2016, $650 million in 2017 and $480 million in 2018, plus   20%   on net sales in excess of those amounts in each of the respective years. 
    
  BMS shared rights to   Erbitux*   in Japan under an agreement with Lilly and Merck KGaA and received   50%   of the pretax profit from Merck KGaA s net sales of   Erbitux*   in Japan which was further shared equally with Lilly. BMS transferred its co-commercialization rights in Japan to Merck KGaA in 2015 in exchange for sales-based royalties through 2032 which is included in other income when earned. 
    
  In March 2013, BMS and Lilly terminated its arrangement for necitumumab (IMC-11F8), with all rights returning to Lilly. Discovered by ImClone, necitumumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody that was part of the alliance between BMS and Lilly. 
    
    70 

Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows: 

Selected Alliance Balance Sheet information 
      
    December 31, 
      Dollars in Millions 
      
    2015 
      
    2014 
      Other intangible assets   Non-refundable upfront, milestone and other licensing payments 
      
    $ 

$ 
    137 

AstraZeneca 
    
  Prior to the diabetes business divestiture discussed below, BMS had an alliance with AstraZeneca consisting of   three   worldwide co-development and commercialization agreements covering (1)   Onglyza*   and related combination products sold under various names, (2)   Farxiga*   and related combination products and, (3) beginning in August 2012 after BMS's acquisition of Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amylin), Amylin's portfolio of products including   Bydureon*  ,   Byetta*  ,   Symlin*   and   Myalept*  , as well as certain assets owned by Amylin, including a manufacturing facility located in West Chester, Ohio. 
    
  Co-exclusive license rights for the product or products underlying each agreement were granted to AstraZeneca in exchange for an upfront payment and potential milestone payments, and both parties assumed certain obligations to actively participate in the alliance. Both parties actively participated in a joint executive committee and various other operating committees and had joint responsibilities for the research, development, distribution, sales and marketing activities of the alliance using resources in their own infrastructures. BMS manufactured the products in all three alliances and was the principal in the end customer product sales in substantially all countries. 
    
  For each alliance agreement, the rights transferred to AstraZeneca did not have standalone value as such rights were not sold separately by BMS or any other party, nor could AstraZeneca have received any benefit for the delivered rights without the fulfillment of other ongoing obligations by BMS under the alliance agreements, including the exclusive supply arrangement. As such, each global alliance was treated as a single unit of accounting. As a result, upfront proceeds and any subsequent contingent milestone proceeds were amortized over the life of the related products. 
    
  In 2012, BMS received a   $3.6 billion   non-refundable, upfront payment from AstraZeneca in consideration for entering into the Amylin alliance. In 2013, AstraZeneca exercised its option for equal governance rights over certain key strategic and financial decisions regarding the Amylin alliance and paid BMS   $135 million   as consideration. These payments were accounted for as deferred income and amortized based on the relative fair value of the predominant elements included in the alliance over their estimated useful lives (intangible assets related to   Bydureon*   with an estimated useful life of   13   years,   Byetta*   with an estimated useful life of   7   years,   Symlin*   with an estimated life of   9   years,   Myalept  * with an estimated useful life of   12   years, and the Amylin manufacturing plant with an estimated useful life of   15   years). The amortization was presented as a reduction to cost of products sold because the alliance assets were acquired shortly before the commencement of the alliance and AstraZeneca was entitled to share in the proceeds from the sale of any of the assets. The amortization of the acquired Amylin intangible assets and manufacturing plant was also presented in cost of products sold. BMS was entitled to reimbursements for   50%   of capital expenditures related to the acquired Amylin manufacturing facility. BMS and AstraZeneca also shared in certain tax attributes related to the Amylin alliance. 
    
    71 

Prior to the termination of the alliance, BMS received non-refundable upfront, milestone and other licensing payments of   $300 million   related to   Onglyza*   and   $250 million   related to   Farxiga*  . Amortization of the   Onglyza*   and   Farxiga*   deferred income was included in other income as   Onglyza*   and   Farxiga*   were not commercial products at the commencement of the alliance. Both parties also shared most commercialization and development expenses equally, as well as profits and losses. 
    
  In February 2014, BMS and AstraZeneca terminated their alliance agreements and BMS sold to AstraZeneca substantially all of the diabetes business comprising the alliance. The divestiture included the shares of Amylin and the resulting transfer of its Ohio manufacturing facility; the intellectual property related to   Onglyza*   and   Farxiga*   (including BMS's interest in the out-licensing agreement for   Onglyza*   in Japan); and the purchase of BMS s manufacturing facility located in Mount Vernon, Indiana in 2015. Substantially all employees dedicated to the diabetes business were transferred to AstraZeneca. 
    
  BMS and AstraZeneca entered into several agreements in connection with the sale, including a supply agreement, a development agreement and a transitional services agreement. Under those agreements, BMS is obligated to supply certain products, including the active product ingredients for   Onglyza*   and   Farxiga*   through 2020; to perform ongoing development activities for certain clinical trial programs through 2016; and to provide transitional services such as accounting, financial services, customer service, distribution, regulatory, development, information technology and certain other administrative services for various periods in order to facilitate the orderly transfer of the business operations. Annual costs attributed to the development agreement are not expected to exceed approximately   $115 million   for 2016. 
    
  Consideration for the transaction includes a   $2.7 billion   payment at closing; contingent regulatory and sales-based milestone payments of up to   $1.4 billion   (including   $800 million   related to approval milestones and   $600 million   related to sales-based milestones, payable in 2020); royalty payments based on net sales through 2025 and payments up to   $225 million   if and when certain assets are transferred to AstraZeneca. AstraZeneca will also pay BMS for any required product supply at a price approximating the product cost as well as negotiated transitional service fees. 
    
  Royalty rates on net sales are as follows: 

The stock and asset purchase agreement contains multiple elements to be delivered subsequent to the closing of the transaction, including the China diabetes business (transferred in 2014), the Mount Vernon, Indiana manufacturing facility (transferred in 2015), and the activities under the development and supply agreements. Each of these elements was determined to have a standalone value. As a result, a portion of the consideration received at closing was allocated to the undelivered elements using the relative selling price method after determining the best estimated selling price for each element. The remaining amount of consideration was included in the calculation for the gain on sale of the diabetes business. Contingent milestone and royalty payments are similarly allocated among the underlying elements if and when the amounts are determined to be payable to BMS. Amounts allocated to the sale of the business are immediately recognized in the results of operations. Amounts allocated to the other elements are recognized in the results of operations only to the extent each element has been delivered. 
    
  Consideration of   $3.8 billion   was accounted for in 2014 (including royalties and   $700 million   of contingent regulatory milestone payments related to the approval of   Farxiga*   in both the U.S. and Japan). Approximately   $3.3 billion   of the consideration was allocated to the sale of the business and the remaining   $492 million   was allocated to the undelivered elements described above. The consideration includes   $235 million   of earned royalties, including   $192 million   allocated to elements that were delivered. The gain on sale of the diabetes business was   $536 million  , including   $292 million   during the third quarter of 2014 resulting primarily from the transfer of the China diabetes business to AstraZeneca. The gain was based on the difference between the consideration allocated to the sale of the business excluding royalties (net of transaction fees) and the carrying value of the diabetes business net assets (including a   $600 million   allocation of goodwill and the reversal of   $821 million   of net deferred tax liabilities attributed to Amylin). Consideration of   $179 million   was received in 2015 for the transfer of the Mount Vernon, Indiana manufacturing facility and related inventories resulting in a gain of   $79 million   for the amounts allocated to the delivered elements.  
    
  Consideration allocated to the development and supply agreements will continue to be amortized over the applicable service periods. Amortization of deferred income attributed to the development agreement was included in other income as the sale of these services are not considered part of BMS s ongoing major or central operations. Revenues attributed to the supply agreement were included in alliance and other revenues. 
    
    72 

Consideration for the transaction is presented for cash flow purposes based on the allocation process described above, either as an investing activity if attributed to the sale of the business or related assets or as an operating activity if attributed to the transitional services, supply arrangement or development agreement. 
    
  In September 2015, BMS transferred a percentage of its future royalty rights on Amylin net product sales in the U.S. to CPPIB Credit Europe S.A.R.L., a Luxembourg private limited liability company (CPPIB). The transferred rights represent approximately   70%   of potential future royalties BMS is entitled to in 2019 to 2025. In exchange for the transfer, BMS will receive an additional tiered-based royalty on Amylin net product sales in the U.S. from CPPIB in 2016 through 2018, which will be included in other income when earned. 
    
  Summarized financial information related to the AstraZeneca alliances was as follows: 

Sanofi 
    
  BMS and Sanofi have co-development and co-commercialization agreements for   Plavix*   and   Avapro*  /  Avalide*.   Effective January 1, 2013, Sanofi assumed essentially all of the worldwide operations of the alliance with the exception of   Plavix*   in the U.S. and Puerto Rico where BMS is the operating partner with a   50.1%   controlling interest. In exchange for the rights transferred to Sanofi, BMS receives quarterly royalties from January 1, 2013 until December 31, 2018 and a terminal payment from Sanofi of   $200 million   at the end of 2018.  
    
    73 

Royalties received from Sanofi in the territory covering the Americas and Australia, opt-out markets, and former development royalties are presented in alliance and other revenues and were   $211 million   in   2015  ,   $223 million   in   2014   and   $220 million   in   2013  . Royalties attributed to the territory covering Europe and Asia continue to be earned by the territory partnership and are included in equity in net income of affiliates. Alliance and other revenues attributed to the supply of irbesartan API to Sanofi were   $80 million   in   2015  ,   $90 million   in   2014   and   $116 million   in   2013  . The supply arrangement for irbesartan expired in 2015. 
    
  Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows: 

(a) 
    Included in alliance receivables. 
       
  The following is summarized financial information for interests in the partnerships with Sanofi for the territory covering Europe and Asia, which are not consolidated but are accounted for using the equity method: 

Cost of products sold for the territory covering Europe and Asia includes discovery royalties of   $22 million   in   2015  ,   $32 million   in   2014   and   $38 million   in   2013  , which are paid directly to Sanofi. All other expenses are shared based on the applicable ownership percentages. Current assets and current liabilities include approximately   $76 million   in   2015  ,   $94 million   in   2014   and   $108 million   in   2013   related to receivables/payables attributed to cash distributions to BMS and Sanofi as well as intercompany balances between partnerships within the territory.  
    
  Ono 
    
  BMS is the principal in the end customer product sales and has the exclusive right to develop, manufacture and commercialize   Opdivo  , an anti-PD-1 human monoclonal antibody being investigated as an anti-cancer treatment, in all territories worldwide except Japan, South Korea and Taiwan (where Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd (Ono) was responsible for all development and commercialization prior to the arrangement described below). Ono is entitled to receive royalties following regulatory approvals in all territories excluding the three countries listed above. Royalty rates on net sales are   4%   in North America and   15%   in all other applicable territories, subject to customary adjustments. 
    
  The alliance arrangement was expanded in July 2014 to establish collaboration activities in Japan, South Korea and Taiwan pertaining to   Opdivo   and several BMS compounds including   Yervoy  , lirilumab, urelumab and BMS-986016 (anti-LAG3). Both parties have the right and obligation to jointly develop and commercialize the compounds. BMS is responsible for supply of the products. Profits, losses and development costs are shared equally for all combination therapies involving compounds of both parties. Otherwise, sharing is   80%   and   20%   for activities involving only one of the party s compounds.  
    74 

BMS and Ono also have an alliance to co-develop and co-commercialize   Orencia   in Japan. BMS is responsible for the order fulfillment and distribution of the intravenous formulation and Ono is responsible for the subcutaneous formulation. Both formulations are jointly promoted by both parties with assigned customer accounts and BMS is responsible for the product supply. A co-promotion fee of   60%   is paid to the other party when a sale is made to that party s assigned customer. 
    
  Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows: 

AbbVie 
    
  BMS and AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie) have an alliance for   Empliciti  , a humanized monoclonal antibody for the treatment of multiple myeloma. Under the terms of the alliance, BMS was granted exclusive global rights to co-develop and commercialize   Empliciti   from PDL BioPharma, Inc. (now part of AbbVie). AbbVie currently participates in joint development and U.S. commercialization committees which BMS has final decision making authority. Both parties are co-developing the product and AbbVie funds   20%   of global development costs. BMS is solely responsible for supply, distribution and sales and marketing activities within the alliance and is the principal in the end customer product sales. AbbVie shares   30%   of all profits and losses in the U.S. and will be paid tiered royalties on net sales of   Empliciti   outside of the U.S. In addition, AbbVie is also entitled to receive milestone payments from BMS if certain regulatory events and sales thresholds are achieved. The agreement may be terminated at will by BMS (subsequent to a notice period) or by either party for material breach by the other party. The financial information related to this alliance was not material for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. 
    
  F-Star 
    
  I  n October 2014, BMS entered into an agreement with F-Star Alpha Ltd. (F-Star). The agreement provides BMS with an exclusive option to purchase F-Star and its Phase I ready lead asset FS102, a targeted therapy in development for the treatment of breast and gastric cancer among a well-defined population of HER2-positive patients. 
  BMS paid   $50 million   to F-Star and its shareholders in 2014 in consideration for the option grant and certain licensing rights (included in research and development expenses) and is responsible for conducting and funding the development of FS102. The option is exercisable at BMS's discretion and expires upon the earlier of   60 days   following obtaining proof of concept or June 2018. An additional   $100 million   will be payable upon the exercise of the option plus an additional aggregate consideration of up to   $325 million   for contingent development and regulatory approval milestone payments in the U.S. and Europe. BMS is not obligated to provide any additional financial support to F-Star. 
  F-Star was determined not to be a business as defined in ASC 805 - Business Combinations. As a result, contingent consideration was not included in the purchase price and no goodwill was recognized. However, F-Star is a variable interest entity as its equity holders lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. BMS was determined to be the primary beneficiary because of both its power to direct the activities most significantly and directly impacting the economic performance of the entity and its option rights described above. Upon consolidation in 2014, noncontrolling interest was credited by   $59 million   to reflect the fair value of the FS102 IPRD asset (  $75 million  ) and deferred tax liabilities. 
    
    75 

Promedior 
    
  In September 2015, BMS purchased a warrant that gives BMS the exclusive right to acquire Promedior, Inc. (Promedior), a biotechnology company whose lead asset, PRM-151, is being developed for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and myelofibrosis (MF). The warrant is exercisable upon completion of either of the IPF or MF Phase II clinical studies being conducted by Promedior, which is expected to occur no earlier than 2017. The upfront payment allocated to the warrant was   $84 million   and included in research and development expenses in the third quarter of 2015. The remaining   $66 million   of the   $150 million   upfront payment was allocated to Promedior s obligation to complete the Phase II studies which will be amortized over the expected period of the Phase II studies. The allocation was determined using level 3 inputs. Following BMS's review of the Phase II clinical study results, if BMS elects to exercise the warrant it will be obligated to pay an additional   $300 million   (if based on the IPF study results) or   $250 million   (if based on the MF study results), plus additional aggregate consideration of up to   $800 million   for contingent development and regulatory approval milestone payments in the U.S. and Europe. 
    
  Five Prime 
    
  In November 2015, BMS and Five Prime Therapeutics, Inc. (Five Prime) entered into an exclusive worldwide licensing and collaboration agreement for the development and commercialization of Five Prime s colony stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) antibody program, including FPA008 currently in Phase I development for immunology and oncology indications. BMS will be responsible for the development, manufacturing and commercialization of FPA008, subject to Five Prime s option to conduct certain studies at its cost to develop FPA008 in pigmented vilonodular synovitis (PVNS) and in combination with its own internal oncology pipeline assets. Five Prime also retained an option to co-promote in the U.S. The agreement replaces a previous clinical collaboration agreement between the two parties. 
    
  In consideration for licensing rights, BMS made an upfront payment of   $350 million   in the fourth quarter of 2015 which was included in research and development expense. BMS will also be committed to pay up to   $1.4 billion   upon the achievement of contingent development and regulatory milestones as well as future royalties if the product is approved and commercialized. 
    
  Reckitt Benckiser Group 
    
  In May 2013, BMS and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc (Reckitt) started a   three  -year alliance for several over-the-counter-products sold primarily in Mexico and Brazil. Reckitt received the right to sell, distribute and market the products through May 2016. BMS receives royalties on net sales of the products and exclusively supplies certain of the products to Reckitt pursuant to a supply agreement at cost plus a markup. Certain limited assets, including the market authorizations and certain employees directly attributed to the business, were transferred to Reckitt at the start of the alliance period. BMS retained ownership of all other assets related to the business including the trademarks covering the products. 
    
  In the framework of the alliance, BMS also granted Reckitt an option to acquire the trademarks, inventory and certain other assets exclusively related to the products at the end of the alliance period at a price determined primarily based upon a multiple of sales from May 2014 through May 2016. In April 2014, the alliance was modified to provide an option to Reckitt to purchase a BMS manufacturing facility located in Mexico primarily dedicated to the products included in the alliance. In July 2015, Reckitt notified BMS that it was exercising its option. Substantially all employees at the facility are expected to be transferred to Reckitt. The closing is expected to occur in May 2016. Refer to " Note   5  . Assets Held-For-Sale  for further information. 
    
  Non-refundable upfront proceeds of   $485 million   received by BMS in 2013 were allocated to two units of accounting, including the rights transferred to Reckitt and the fair value of the option to purchase the remaining assets using the best estimate of the selling price for these elements after considering various market factors. These market factors included an analysis of any estimated excess of the fair value of the business over the potential purchase price if the option is exercised. The fair value of the option was determined using Level 3 inputs and included in other liabilities. During 2015, BMS recognized other income of   $123 million   to decrease the fair value of the option to zero due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against local currencies. The anticipated proceeds are expected to approximate the fair value of the assets to be transferred. The amount allocated to the rights transferred to Reckitt is amortized as alliance and other revenue over the contractual term.  
    
    76 

Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows: 

The Medicines Company 
    
  In February 2013, BMS and The Medicines Company entered into a   two  -year alliance for   Recothrom*  , a recombinant thrombin for use as a topical hemostat to control non-arterial bleeding during surgical procedures (previously acquired by BMS in connection with its acquisition of ZymoGenetics, Inc. in 2010). The Medicines Company received the right to sell, distribute and market   Recothrom*   on a global basis for two years. BMS exclusively supplied   Recothrom*   to The Medicines Company at cost plus a markup and received royalties on net sales of   Recothrom*  . Certain employees directly attributed to the business and certain assets were transferred to The Medicines Company at the start of the alliance period, including the Biologics License Application and related regulatory assets. BMS retained all other assets related to   Recothrom*   including the patents, trademarks and inventory. 
    
  BMS also granted The Medicines Company an option to acquire the patents, trademarks, inventory and certain other assets exclusively related to   Recothrom*   at a price determined based on a multiple of sales (plus the cost of any remaining inventory held by BMS at that time). The Medicines Company exercised the option and acquired the business for   $132 million   in February 2015. Refer to " Note   5  . Assets Held-For-Sale  for further information. 
    
  Non-refundable upfront proceeds of   $115 million   received by BMS in 2013 were allocated to two units of accounting, including the rights transferred to The Medicines Company and the fair value of the option to purchase the remaining assets using the best estimate of the selling price for these elements after considering various market factors. These market factors included an analysis of any estimated excess of the fair value of the business over the potential purchase price if the option is exercised. The fair value of the option was   $35 million   at December 31, 2014 and was determined using Level 3 inputs and included in accrued expenses. The amount allocated to the rights transferred to The Medicines Company was amortized as alliance and other revenue over the contractual term.  
    
  Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows: 

77 

Valeant 
    
  In October 2012, BMS and PharmaSwiss SA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Inc. (Valeant) entered into an alliance for certain mature brand products in Europe. Valeant received the right to sell, distribute, and market the products in Europe through December 31, 2014. BMS exclusively supplied the products to Valeant at cost plus a markup. 
    
  BMS also granted Valeant an option to acquire the trademarks and intellectual property exclusively related to the products at a price determined based on a multiple of sales. Valeant exercised the option and acquired the business for   $61 million   in January 2015. Refer to " Note   5  . Assets Held-For-Sale  for further information. 
    
  Non-refundable upfront proceeds of   $79 million   received by BMS in 2012 were allocated to two units of accounting, including the rights transferred to Valeant and the fair value of the option to purchase the remaining assets using the best estimate of the selling price for these elements after considering various market factors. These market factors included an analysis of any estimated excess of the fair value of the business over the potential purchase price if the option is exercised. The fair value of the option was determined using Level 3 inputs and included in accrued expenses. A   $16 million   charge was included in other expenses to increase the fair value of the option to   $34 million   in   2014  . The amount allocated to the rights transferred to Valeant was amortized as alliance and other revenue over the contractual term.  
    
  Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows: 

Note   4  . ACQUISITIONS AND OTHER DIVESTITURES 
    
  Cardioxyl Acquisition 
  In December 2015, BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of Cardioxyl Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Cardioxyl), a privately held biotechnology company focused on the discovery and development of novel therapeutic agents for cardiovascular disease. The acquisition provided BMS with full rights to CXL-1427, a nitroxyl prodrug in Phase II development for acute decompensated heart failure. The consideration includes an upfront payment of   $200 million   and contingent development, regulatory and sales-based milestone payments of up to   $1.9 billion  . No significant Cardioxyl processes were acquired, therefore the transaction was accounted for as an asset acquisition because Cardioxyl was determined not to be a business as that term is defined in ASC 805 - Business Combinations. The consideration was allocated to CXL-1427 resulting in   $167 million   of research and development expenses and to net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards resulting in   $33 million   of deferred tax assets. 
    
  Flexus Acquisition 
  In April 2015, BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of Flexus Biosciences, Inc. (Flexus), a privately held biotechnology company focused on the discovery and development of novel anti-cancer therapeutics. The acquisition provided BMS with full rights to F001287, a preclinical small molecule IDO1-inhibitor targeted immunotherapy. In addition, BMS acquired Flexus's IDO/TDO discovery program which includes its IDO-selective, IDO/TDO dual and TDO-selective compounds. The consideration includes an upfront payment of   $800 million   (plus acquisition costs) and contingent development and regulatory milestone payments of up to   $450 million  . No significant Flexus processes were acquired, therefore the transaction was accounted for as an asset acquisition because Flexus was determined not to be a business. The consideration was allocated to F001287 and the IDO/TDO discovery program resulting in   $800 million   of research and development expenses and to net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards resulting in   $14 million   of deferred tax assets. 
    
    78 

iPierian Acquisition 
  In April 2014, BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of iPierian, Inc. (iPierian), a biotechnology company focused on new treatments for tauopathies, a class of neurodegenerative diseases.  The acquisition provided BMS with full rights to IPN007, a preclinical monoclonal antibody to treat progressive supranuclear palsy and other tauopathies. The consideration includes an upfront payment of   $175 million  , contingent development and regulatory milestone payments of up to   $550 million   and future royalties on net sales if any of the acquired preclinical assets are approved and commercialized. No significant iPierian processes were acquired, therefore the transaction was accounted for as an asset acquisition because iPierian was determined not to be a business. The consideration was allocated to IPN007 resulting in   $148 million   of research and development expenses and to net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards resulting in   $27 million   of deferred tax assets.  
    
  Other Divestitures 
  In addition to the divestiture transactions with AstraZeneca, Lilly, The Medicines Company and Valeant discussed in " Note   3  . Alliances", BMS divested its   Ixempra*   business and several other businesses or product lines in 2015. These other transactions generated net proceeds of   $121 million   resulting in pretax gains of   $136 million   (including a   $40 million   deferred gain from 2014). Additional contingent proceeds will be recognized in earnings when received. Revenues and pretax earnings related to these businesses were not material. 
    Note   5  . ASSETS HELD-FOR-SALE 
    
  In December 2015, BMS agreed to sell its pipeline of investigational HIV medicines to ViiV Healthcare which includes a number of programs at different stages of discovery, preclinical and clinical development. The transaction excludes BMS s HIV marketed medicines. Certain BMS employees will be offered the opportunity to transfer to ViiV Healthcare and BMS will provide certain R D and other services over a transitional period. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2016 upon obtaining customary regulatory approvals and will be accounted for as a sale of a business. 
    
  Consideration includes an upfront payment of   $350 million  , contingent development and regulatory milestone payments of up to   $1.1 billion  , sales-based milestone payments of up to   $4.3 billion   and future royalties if the products are approved and commercialized. BMS will also be reimbursed for the R D and other services.  
    
  Assets held-for-sale were   $134 million   at   December 31, 2015  , comprising primarily of goodwill related to the investigational HIV business and the business comprising an alliance with Reckitt. Assets held-for-sale were   $109 million   at   December 31, 2014  , comprising of inventory, goodwill and other intangible assets related to the businesses comprising the alliances with The Medicines Company and Valeant. The allocation of goodwill was based on the relative fair value of the businesses divested to the Company's reporting unit. 
    Note   6  . OTHER (INCOME)/EXPENSE 
  Other (income)/expense includes: 

Litigation and other settlements includes   $90 million   for a contractual dispute related to a license. 
                
    Other includes an unrealized foreign exchange loss of   $52 million   resulting from the remeasurement of the Bolivar-denominated cash and other monetary balances of BMS s wholly-owned subsidiary in Venezuela as of December 31, 2015. The exchange rate was changed to the SIMADI rate of 200 from the official CENCOEX rate of 6.3 after considering the limited amount of foreign currency exchanged during the second half of 2015, published exchange rates and the continuing deterioration of economic conditions in Venezuela. 
       79 

Note   7  . RESTRUCTURING 
    
  The following is the provision for restructuring: 

Restructuring charges included employee termination benefits for manufacturing, selling, administrative, and research and development workforce reductions across all geographic regions of approximately   1,169   in   2015  ,   1,387   in   2014   and   1,450   in   2013  . The restructuring actions were primarily related to specialty care transformation initiatives in 2015 and 2014 designed to create a more simplified organization across all functions and geographic markets, and sales force reductions in several European countries in 2013 following the restructuring of the Sanofi and Otsuka alliance agreements. Subject to local regulations, costs are not recognized until completion of discussions with works councils. 
    
  The following table represents the activity of employee termination and other exit cost liabilities: 

Note   8  . INCOME TAXES 
    
  The provision/(benefit) for income taxes consisted of: 

80 

Effective Tax Rate 
    
  The reconciliation of the effective tax/(benefit) rate to the U.S. statutory Federal income tax rate was: 

The effective tax rate is lower than the U.S. statutory rate of   35%   primarily attributable to undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that have been considered or are expected to be indefinitely reinvested offshore. U.S. taxes have not been provided on approximately   $25 billion   of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of December 31,   2015  . These undistributed earnings primarily relate to operations in Switzerland, Ireland and Puerto Rico. If these undistributed earnings are repatriated to the U.S. in the future, or if it were determined that such earnings are to be remitted in the foreseeable future, additional tax provisions would be required. Due to complexities in the tax laws and assumptions that would have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the amounts of income taxes that will have to be provided. Reforms to U.S. tax laws related to foreign earnings have been proposed and if adopted, may increase taxes, which could reduce the results of operations and cash flows. BMS operates under a favorable tax grant in Puerto Rico not scheduled to expire prior to 2023. 
    
  The divestiture of certain businesses resulted in capital loss tax benefits including   $361 million   from the sale of Amylin shares in 2014. Valuation allowances attributed to capital loss carryforwards were released in 2015 following the divestiture of   Recothrom*  ,   Ixempra*   and other mature brands. Additional reserves of   $123 million   were established in 2014 for certain transfer pricing matters related to tax periods from 2008 through 2014. The retroactive reinstatement of the 2012 U.S. Federal research and development credit in 2013 resulted in additional tax credits of   $82 million   in 2013. Orphan drug credits are included in the U.S. Federal research based credits for all periods presented. Goodwill allocated to business divestitures (including the diabetes business in 2014) was not deductible for tax purposes as well as the U.S. Branded Prescription Drug Fee in all periods. Research and development charges resulting primarily from the acquisition of Flexus and Cardioxyl in 2015 and iPierian in 2014 were also not deductible for tax purposes. 
    
    81 

Deferred Taxes and Valuation Allowance 
    
  The components of current and non-current deferred income tax assets/(liabilities) were as follows:   

The Company has elected to early adopt Accounting Standard Update 2015-17 as of December 31, 2015 on a prospective basis, which results in all deferred taxes being reported as non-current on the balance sheet.  
    
  Internal transfers of intellectual property resulted in deferred tax assets of   $635 million   and prepaid taxes of   $484 million   (included in other assets) at December 31, 2015. These assets are amortized over their expected lives. 
    
  The U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards were   $419 million   at   December 31, 2015  . These carryforwards were acquired as a result of certain acquisitions and are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The net operating loss carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2022. The U.S. Federal tax credit carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2017. The realization of the U.S. Federal tax credit carryforwards is dependent on generating sufficient domestic-sourced taxable income prior to their expiration. The capital loss carryforward available of   $102 million   is dependent on generating sufficient domestic-sourced capital gain income and is scheduled to expire in 2019. The foreign and state net operating loss carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2016 (certain amounts have unlimited lives). 
    
  At   December 31, 2015  , a valuation allowance of   $3,534 million   was established for the following items:   $3,090 million   primarily for foreign net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards,   $340 million   for state deferred tax assets including net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards,   $11 million   for U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards and   $29 million   for U.S. Federal capital losses and   $64 million   for other U.S. Federal deferred tax assets. 
    82 

Changes in the valuation allowance were as follows: 

Income tax payments were   $577 million   in   2015  ,   $544 million   in   2014   and   $478 million   in   2013  . The current tax benefit realized as a result of stock related compensation credited to capital in excess of par value of stock was   $147 million   in   2015  ,   $131 million   in   2014   and   $129 million   in   2013  . 
    
  Business is conducted in various countries throughout the world and is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions. A significant number of tax returns that are filed are subject to examination by various Federal, state and local tax authorities. Tax examinations are often complex, as tax authorities may disagree with the treatment of items reported requiring several years to resolve. Liabilities are established for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to, transfer pricing matters, tax credits and deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known. The effect of changes in estimates related to contingent tax liabilities is included in the effective tax rate reconciliation above. 
    
  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 

Additional information regarding unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 

Accrued interest and penalties payable for unrecognized tax benefits are included in either current or non-current income taxes payable. Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are included in income tax expense. 
    
  BMS is currently under examination by a number of tax authorities, including but not limited to the major tax jurisdictions listed in the table below, which have proposed or are considering proposing material adjustments to tax for issues such as transfer pricing, certain tax credits and the deductibility of certain expenses. BMS estimates that it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits at   December 31, 2015   will decrease in the range of approximately   $270 million   to   $330 million   in the next twelve months as a result of the settlement of certain tax audits and other events. The expected change in unrecognized tax benefits, primarily settlement related, will involve the payment of additional taxes, the adjustment of certain deferred taxes and/or the recognition of tax benefits. It is reasonably possible that new issues will be raised by tax authorities that may increase unrecognized tax benefits; however, an estimate of such increases cannot reasonably be made at this time. BMS believes that it has adequately provided for all open tax years by tax jurisdiction. 
    83 

The following is a summary of major tax jurisdictions for which tax authorities may assert additional taxes based upon tax years currently under audit and subsequent years that will likely be audited: 

Note   9  . EARNINGS PER SHARE 

Note   10  . FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 
    
  Financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable and payable, debt instruments and derivatives. 
    
  Changes in exchange rates and interest rates create exposure to market risk. Certain derivative financial instruments are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge the underlying economic exposure. These instruments qualify as cash flow, net investment and fair value hedges upon meeting certain criteria, including effectiveness of offsetting hedged exposures. Changes in fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognized in earnings as they occur. Derivative financial instruments are not used for trading purposes. 
    
  Financial instruments are subject to counterparty credit risk which is considered as part of the overall fair value measurement. Counterparty credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis and mitigated by limiting amounts outstanding with any individual counterparty, utilizing conventional derivative financial instruments and only entering into agreements with counterparties that meet high credit quality standards. The consolidated financial statements would not be materially impacted if any counterparty failed to perform according to the terms of its agreement. Collateral is not required by any party whether derivatives are in an asset or liability position under the terms of the agreements. 
    
  Fair Value Measurements     The fair value of financial instruments are classified into one of the following categories: 
  Level 1 inputs utilize unadjusted quoted prices in active markets accessible at the measurement date for identical assets or liabilities. The fair value hierarchy provides the highest priority to Level 1 inputs.  
    
  Level 2 inputs utilize observable prices for similar instruments and quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in non-active markets. Additionally, certain corporate debt securities utilize a third-party matrix pricing model using significant inputs corroborated by market data for substantially the full term of the assets. Equity and fixed income funds are primarily invested in publicly traded securities valued at the respective net asset value of the underlying investments. There were no significant unfunded commitments or restrictions on redemptions related to equity and fixed income funds as of   December 31, 2015  . Level 2 derivative instruments are valued using London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) yield curves, less credit valuation adjustments, and observable forward foreign exchange rates at the reporting date. Valuations of derivative contracts may fluctuate considerably from volatility in underlying foreign currencies and underlying interest rates driven by market conditions and the duration of the contract.  
    
    84 

Level 3 unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is available. The fair value of written options to acquire outstanding shares or sell the assets of certain businesses (refer to   Note   3  . Alliances  for further discussion) is based on an option pricing methodology that considers revenue and profitability projections, volatility, discount rates, and potential exercise price assumptions. 
    
  Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized below: 

The following table summarizes the activity of the financial assets utilizing Level 3 fair value measurements:   

85 

Available-for-sale Securities 
    
  The following table summarizes available-for-sale securities: 

Available-for-sale securities included in current marketable securities were   $1,782 million   at   December 31, 2015   and   $1,759 million   at   December 31, 2014  . All non-current available-for-sale corporate debt securities mature within five years at   December 31, 2015  . Equity investments of   $60 million   and   $36 million   were included in other assets at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
    
  Fair Value Option for Financial Assets 
    
  Investments in equity and fixed income funds offsetting changes in fair value of certain employee retirement benefits were included in current marketable securities. Changes in fair value were not significant. 
    
  Qualifying Hedges 
  The following summarizes the fair value of outstanding derivatives: 

Cash Flow Hedges     Foreign currency forward contracts are used to hedge certain forecasted intercompany inventory purchase transactions and certain other foreign currency transactions. The effective portion of changes in fair value for contracts designated as cash flow hedges are temporarily reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss and included in earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. The net gains on foreign currency forward contracts are expected to be reclassified to net earnings (primarily included in cost of products sold) within the next   two   years. The notional amount of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was primarily attributed to the euro (  $576 million  ) and Japanese yen (  $746 million  ) at   December 31, 2015  . The fair value of a foreign currency forward contract attributed to the Japanese yen (notional amount of   $445 million  ) not designated as a cash flow hedge was   $5 million   and was included in accrued expenses and other at   December 31, 2015  .  
    
  In 2015, BMS entered into   $750 million   of forward starting interest rate swap contracts maturing in March 2017 to hedge the variability of probable forecasted interest expense associated with potential future issuances of debt. The contracts are designated as cash flow hedges with the effective portion of fair value changes included in other comprehensive income. 
    
    86 

The earnings impact related to discontinued cash flow hedges and hedge ineffectiveness was not significant during all periods presented. Cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued when the forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring within   60   days after the originally forecasted date or when the hedge is no longer effective. Assessments to determine whether derivatives designated as qualifying hedges are highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of hedged items are performed at inception and on a quarterly basis. 
    
  Net Investment Hedges     Non-U.S. dollar borrowings of    950 million   (  $1,041 million  ) are designated to hedge the foreign currency exposures of the net investment in certain foreign affiliates. These borrowings are designated as net investment hedges and recognized in long term debt. The effective portion of foreign exchange gains or losses on the remeasurement of the debt is recognized in the foreign currency translation component of accumulated other comprehensive loss with the related offset in long-term debt. 
    
  Fair Value Hedges     Fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts are designated as fair value hedges used as an interest rate risk management strategy to create an appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate debt. The contracts and underlying debt for the hedged benchmark risk are recorded at fair value. The effective interest rate for the contracts is one-month LIBOR (  0.43%   as of   December 31, 2015  ) plus an interest rate spread ranging from   (0.8)%   to   0.7%  . When the underlying swap is terminated prior to maturity, the fair value basis adjustment to the underlying debt instrument is amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining life of the debt. 
    
  The notional amount of fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts executed was   $200 million   in 2014 and   $2.1 billion   in 2013. The notional amount of fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts terminated was   $147 million   in 2015 and   $426 million   in 2014 generating proceeds of   $28 million   in 2015 and   $119 million   in 2014 (including accrued interest of   $1 million   in 2015 and   $10 million   in 2014). Additional contracts were terminated in connection with debt redemptions in 2015 and 2014. 
    
  Debt Obligations 
    
  Short-term borrowings were   $139 million   and   $590 million   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively, consisting primarily of bank overdrafts. 
    
  The average amount of commercial paper outstanding was   $254 million   at a weighted-average interest rate of   0.16%   during   2015  . The maximum month end amount of commercial paper outstanding was   $755 million   with no outstanding borrowings at   December 31, 2015  . There were no borrowings in 2014. 
    
  Long-term debt includes: 

(a)  
    Excludes unamortized bond issuance costs of   $34 million   that were not reclassified at December 31, 2014. 
       
    87 

The fair value of long-term debt was   $6,909 million   and   $8,045 million   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively, and was estimated based upon the quoted market prices for the same or similar debt instruments. The fair value of short-term borrowings approximates the carrying value due to the short maturities of the debt instruments. 
    
  Senior unsecured notes were issued in a registered public offerings in 2015 and 2013. The notes rank equally in right of payment with all of BMS's existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness and are redeemable in whole or in part, at any time at a predetermined redemption price. BMS also terminated forward starting interest rate swap contracts entered into during 2015, resulting in an unrealized loss in other comprehensive income. The following table summarizes the note issuances: 

The Company repurchased   $500 million   of long-term debt through a cash tender offer and redeemed    1.0 billion   (  $1.1 billion  ) of long-term debt following the issuance of new senior unsecured notes in 2015. In connection with the debt redemption activities, certain interest rate swap contracts were entered into and terminated during the second quarter of 2015. There were no debt redemptions in 2013. Debt redemption activity for 2015 and 2014 was as follows: 

(a) 
    Including acceleration of debt issuance costs, loss on interest rate lock contract and other related fees. 
       
  Notes with a principal amount of   $597 million   matured and were repaid in 2013. 
    
  Interest payments were   $205 million   in   2015  ,   $238 million   in   2014   and   $268 million   in   2013   net of amounts received from interest rate swap contracts. 
    
  Two   separate   $1.5 billion   five-year revolving credit facilities are maintained from a syndicate of lenders. The facilities provide for customary terms and conditions with no financial covenants and are extendable on any anniversary date with the consent of the lenders. No borrowings were outstanding under either revolving credit facility at   December 31, 2015   or   2014  . 
    
  Financial guarantees provided in the form of stand-by letters of credit and performance bonds were   $726 million   at   December 31, 2015  . Stand-by letters of credit are issued through financial institutions in support of guarantees for various obligations. Performance bonds are issued to support a range of ongoing operating activities, including sale of products to hospitals and foreign ministries of health, bonds for customs, duties and value added tax and guarantees related to miscellaneous legal actions. A significant majority of the outstanding financial guarantees will expire within the year and are not expected to be funded. 
    88 

Note   11  . RECEIVABLES 

Non-U.S. receivables sold on a nonrecourse basis were   $476 million   in   2015  ,   $812 million   in   2014  , and   $1,031 million   in   2013  . In the aggregate, receivables from   three   pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. represented   53%   and   36%   of total trade receivables at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
    
  Changes to the allowances for bad debt, charge-backs and cash discounts were as follows: 

Note   12  . INVENTORIES 

Inventories expected to remain on-hand beyond one year (including   $85 million   for inventory pending regulatory approval) are included in other assets and were   $227 million   at   December 31, 2015   and   $232 million   at   December 31, 2014  . 
    Note   13  . PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 

The Mount Vernon, Indiana manufacturing facility was transferred to AstraZeneca in the third quarter of 2015 in connection with the sale of the diabetes business. The facility's gross property, plant and equipment was   $415 million   on the date of transfer (  $182 million   net of accumulated depreciation). Refer to " Note   3  . Alliances  for further discussion on the sale of the diabetes business.  
    89 

A fully depreciated bulk manufacturing facility ceased use in 2015 resulting in a   $439 million   reduction to gross property, plant and equipment and accumulated depreciation. 
    
  Depreciation expense was   $500 million   in   2015  ,   $543 million   in   2014   and   $453 million   in   2013  . 
    Note   14  . GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

The reduction of goodwill in 2015 resulted from the allocation of amounts for business divestitures. Refer to " Note   3  . Alliances", " Note   4  . Acquisitions and Other Divestitures" and " Note   5  . Assets Held-For-Sale" for further discussion on the divestitures. Amortization expense was   $183 million   in   2015  ,   $286 million   in   2014   and   $858 million   in   2013  . Future annual amortization expense of other intangible assets is expected to be approximately   $200 million   in   2016  ,   $170 million   in   2017  ,   $150 million   in   2018  ,   $130 million   in   2019  , and   $100 million   in   2020  . Other intangible asset impairment charges were   $181 million   in   2015  ,   $380 million   in   2014   and   none   in 2013.  
    
  Licenses of   $500 million   (  $126 million   net of accumulated amortization) were derecognized in 2015 as a result of the transfer of the   Erbitux*   North American business to Lilly in October 2015. Refer to " Note   3  . Alliances" for further discussion. 
    
  A   $160 million   IPRD impairment charge was recognized in 2015 for BMS-986020 (lysophosphatidic acid 1 receptor antagonist) which was in Phase II development for treatment of IPF. The full write-off was required after considering the occurrence of certain adverse events, voluntary suspension of the study and an internal assessment indicating a significantly lower likelihood of regulatory and commercial success. BMS acquired BMS-986020 with its acquisition of Amira Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2011. In addition, a contingent consideration liability of $8 million related to the acquisition was also reversed because of the lower likelihood of success. 
    
  A   $310 million   IPRD impairment charge was recognized in 2014 for peginterferon lambda which was in Phase III development for treatment of hepatitis C virus (HCV). The full write-off was required after assessing the potential commercial viability of the asset and estimating its fair value. The assessment considered the lower likelihood of filing for registration in certain markets after completing revised projections of revenues and expenses. A significant decline from prior projected revenues resulted from the global introduction of oral non-interferon products being used to treat patients with HCV and no other alternative uses for the product. 
    Note   15  . ACCRUED EXPENSES 

90 

Note   16  . SALES REBATES AND RETURN ACCRUALS 
    
  Reductions to trade receivables and accrued rebates and returns liabilities are as follows: 

Note   17  . DEFERRED INCOME 

Alliances include unamortized amounts for upfront, milestone and other licensing receipts, revenue deferrals attributed to the Gilead alliance and deferred income for the undelivered elements of the diabetes business divestiture. Upfront, milestone and other licensing receipts are amortized over the shorter of the contractual rights period or the expected life of the product. Other deferrals included approximately   $300 million   invoiced for   Daklinza   under an early access program in France as of December 31, 2014, that was deferred until final pricing was obtained from the French government in 2015. Amortization of deferred income was   $307 million   in   2015  ,   $362 million   in   2014   and   $548 million   in   2013  . 
    91 

Note   18  . EQUITY 

Treasury stock is recognized at the cost to reacquire the shares. Shares issued from treasury are recognized utilizing the first-in first-out method. 
    
    92 

The components of other comprehensive income/(loss) were as follows: 

(a) 
    Included in cost of products sold. 
              (b) 
    Included in cost of products sold, research and development, and marketing, selling and administrative expenses. 
              (c) 
    Included in other (income)/expense. 
       
    93 

The accumulated balances related to each component of other comprehensive loss, net of taxes, were as follows: 

Note   19  . PENSION, POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT LIABILITIES 
  BMS sponsors defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans and termination indemnity plans for regular full-time employees. The principal defined benefit pension plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement Income Plan, covering most U.S. employees and representing approximately   65%   of the consolidated pension plan assets and   61%   of the obligations. Future benefits related to service for this plan were eliminated in 2009. BMS contributes at least the minimum amount required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Plan benefits are based primarily on the participant s years of credited service and final average compensation. Plan assets consist principally of equity and fixed-income securities. 
    
  Comprehensive medical and group life benefits are provided for substantially all U.S. retirees electing to participate in comprehensive medical and group life plans. The medical plan is contributory. Contributions are adjusted periodically and vary by date of retirement. The life insurance plan is noncontributory. Plan assets consist principally of equity and fixed-income securities.  
    
  The net periodic benefit cost/(credit) of defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans includes: 

In September 2014, BMS and Fiduciary Counselors Inc., as an independent fiduciary of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Retirement Income Plan, entered into a definitive agreement to transfer certain U.S. pension assets to The Prudential Insurance Company of America (Prudential) to settle approximately   $1.5 billion   of pension obligations. BMS purchased a group annuity contract from Prudential in December 2014, who irrevocably assumed the obligation to make future annuity payments to certain BMS retirees. The transaction does not change the amount of the monthly pension benefit received by affected retirees and surviving beneficiaries and resulted in a pretax settlement charge of   $713 million  . Pension settlement charges were also recognized after determining the annual lump sum payments will exceed the annual interest and service costs for certain pension plans, including the primary U.S. pension plan in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  .  
    
    94 

Changes in defined benefit and postretirement benefit plan obligations, assets, funded status and amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets were as follows: 

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was   $6,363 million   and   $7,001 million   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
    
  Additional information related to pension plans was as follows: 

95 

Actuarial Assumptions 
  Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31 were as follows: 

Weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit (credit)/cost for the years ended December 31 were as follows: 

The yield on high quality corporate bonds matching the duration of the benefit obligations is used in determining the discount rate. The Citigroup Pension Discount curve is used in developing the discount rate for the U.S. plans. 
    
  The expected return on plan assets was determined using the expected rate of return and a calculated value of assets, referred to as the  market-related value . The market-related value of plan assets exceeded the fair value by  approximately   $225 million   at   December 31, 2015  . Differences between assumed and actual returns are amortized to the market-related value on a straight-line basis over a three-year period. Several factors are considered in developing the expected return on plan assets, including long-term historical returns and input from external advisors. Individual asset class return forecasts were developed based upon market conditions, for example, price-earnings levels and yields and long-term growth expectations. The expected long-term rate of return is the weighted-average of the target asset allocation of each individual asset class. Historical long-term actual annualized returns for U.S. pension plans were as follows: 

Actuarial gains and losses resulted from changes in actuarial assumptions (such as changes in the discount rate and revised mortality rates) and from differences between assumed and actual experience (such as differences between actual and expected return on plan assets). Gains and losses are amortized over the life expectancy of the plan participants for U.S. plans (  35   years in 2016) and expected remaining service periods for most other plans to the extent they exceed   10%   of the higher of the market-related value or the projected benefit obligation for each respective plan. The amortization of net actuarial loss and prior service credit is expected to be approximately   $70 million   in 2016. The periodic benefit cost or credit is included in cost of products sold, research and development, and marketing, selling and administrative expenses, except for curtailments, settlements and other special termination benefits which are included other expenses. 
    
  Assumed healthcare cost trend rates at December 31 were as follows: 

A one-percentage-point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would not have a material impact on the cost or benefit obligation. 
    96 

Plan Assets 
  The fair value of pension and postretirement plan assets by asset category at December 31,   2015   and   2014   was as follows: 

The investment valuation policies per investment class are as follows: 
  Level 1 inputs utilize unadjusted quoted prices in active markets accessible at the measurement date for identical assets or liabilities. The fair value hierarchy provides the highest priority to Level 1 inputs. These instruments include equity securities, equity funds and fixed income funds publicly traded on a national securities exchange, and cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase and are recognized at cost, which approximates fair value. Pending trade sales and purchases are included in cash and cash equivalents until final settlement. 
  Level 2 inputs utilize observable prices for similar instruments, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in non-active markets, and other observable inputs that can be corroborated by market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Equity funds, fixed income funds, event driven hedge funds and short-term investment funds classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy are valued at the net asset value of their shares held at year end. There were no significant unfunded commitments or restrictions on redemptions related to investments valued at NAV as of December 31,   2015  . Corporate debt securities and U.S. treasury and agency securities classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy are valued utilizing observable prices for similar instruments and quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active. 
  Level 3 unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is available. Venture capital and limited partnerships classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy invest in underlying securities whose market values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques. Some of the most significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation methodologies include discount rates, Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) multiples, and revenue multiples.  Significant changes in any of these inputs could result in significantly lower or higher fair value measurements. Insurance contracts are held by certain foreign pension plans and are carried at contract value, which approximates the estimated fair value and is based on the fair value of the underlying investment of the insurance company.  
  The following summarizes the activity for financial assets utilizing Level 3 fair value measurements: 

97 

The investment strategy emphasizes equities in order to achieve higher expected returns and lower expenses and required cash contributions over the long-term. A target asset allocation of   43%   public equity (  16%   international,   14%   global and   13%   U.S.),   7%   private equity and   50%   long-duration fixed income is maintained for the U.S. pension plans. Investments are diversified within each of the three major asset categories. Approximately   88%   of the U.S. pension plans equity investments are actively managed. Venture capital and limited partnerships are typically valued on a three month lag using latest available information. BMS common stock represents less than   1%   of the plan assets at December 31,   2015   and   2014  . 
    
  Contributions and Estimated Future Benefit Payments 
    
  Contributions to pension plans were   $118 million   in   2015  ,   $124 million   in   2014   and   $251 million   in   2013   and are expected to be approximately   $100 million   in   2016  . Estimated annual future benefit payments (including lump sum payments) range from   $300 million   to   $400 million   in each of the next five years, and aggregate   $1.7 billion   in the subsequent five year period. 
    
  Savings Plans 
    
  The principal defined contribution plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Savings and Investment Program. The contribution is based on employee contributions and the level of Company match. The expense attributed to defined contribution plans in the U.S. was approximately   $190 million   in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  . 
    Note   20  . EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS 
  On May 1, 2012, the shareholders approved the 2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the 2012 Plan), which replaced the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. The 2012 Plan provides for   109 million   shares to be authorized for grants, plus any shares from outstanding awards under the 2007 Plan as of February 29, 2012 that expire, are forfeited, canceled, or withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations. As of December 31, 2015,   108 million   shares were available for award. Shares are issued from treasury stock to satisfy our obligations under this Plan. 
    
  Executive officers and key employees may be granted options to purchase common stock at no less than the market price on the date the option is granted. Options generally become exercisable ratably over   four   years and have a maximum term of   ten   years. The plan provides for the granting of stock appreciation rights whereby the grantee may surrender exercisable rights and receive common stock and/or cash measured by the excess of the market price of the common stock over the option exercise price. The Company has not granted any stock options or stock appreciation rights since 2009. 
    
  Restricted stock units may be granted to key employees, subject to restrictions as to continuous employment. Generally, vesting occurs ratably over a   four   year period from grant date. Compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period. A stock unit is a right to receive stock at the end of the specified vesting period but has no voting rights. 
    
  Market share units are granted to executives. Vesting is conditioned upon continuous employment until the vesting date and payout factor is at least   60%   of the share price on the award date. The payout factor is the share price on vesting date divided by share price on award date, with a maximum of   200%  . The share price used in the payout factor is calculated using an average of the closing prices on the grant or vest date, and the nine trading days immediately preceding the grant or vest date. Vesting occurs ratably over   four   years. 
    
  Performance share units are granted to executives and have a three year cycle and are granted as a target number of units subject to adjustment based on company performance. The number of shares issued when performance share units vest is determined based on the achievement of annual performance goals. The number of shares issued for 2014-2016 and 2015-2017 performance share unit awards are also adjusted based on the Company's three-year total shareholder return relative to a peer group of companies. Vesting occurs on the third anniversary of the grant date. 
    
  Stock-based compensation expense for awards ultimately expected to vest is recognized over the vesting period. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience at the time of grant and revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Other information related to stock-based compensation benefits are as follows: 

98 

Restricted 
      
    Market 
      
    Performance 
      Dollars in Millions 
      
    Stock Units 
      
    Share Units 
      
    Share Units 
      Unrecognized compensation cost 
      
    $ 
    159 

$ 
    40 

$ 
    106 
      
      Expected weighted-average period in years of compensation cost to be recognized 
      
    2.7 

2.8 

1.7 

The fair value of awards approximates the closing trading price of BMS's common stock on the grant date. The fair value of market share units also considers the payout formula and probability of satisfying market conditions. 
  The following table summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable options at   December 31, 2015  : 

The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pretax intrinsic value, based on the closing stock price of   $68.79   on   December 31, 2015  . 
    Note   21  . LEASES 
    
  Annual minimum rental commitments for non-cancelable operating leases (primarily real estate and motor vehicles) are approximately   $100 million   in each of the next five years and an aggregate   $300   million thereafter. Operating lease expenses were approximately   $140 million   in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  . Sublease income was not material for all periods presented. 
    99 

Note   22  . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES 
  The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are involved in various lawsuits, claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. These claims or proceedings can involve various types of parties, including governments, competitors, customers, suppliers, service providers, licensees, employees, or shareholders, among others. The resolution of these matters often develop over a long period of time and expectations can change as a result of new findings, rulings, appeals or settlement arrangements. The Company recognizes accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. These matters involve patent infringement, antitrust, securities, pricing, sales and marketing practices, environmental, commercial, contractual rights, licensing obligations, health and safety matters, consumer fraud, employment matters, product liability and insurance coverage. Legal proceedings that are material or that the Company believes could become material are described below. 
  Although the Company believes it has substantial defenses in these matters, there can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in the scope of pending matters or that any future lawsuits, claims, government investigations or other legal proceedings will not be material. Unless otherwise noted, the Company is unable to assess the outcome of the respective litigation nor is it able to provide an estimated range of potential loss. Furthermore, failure to enforce our patent rights would likely result in substantial decreases in the respective product revenues from generic competition. 
  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
  Baraclude     South Korea 
  In 2013, DaeWoong Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Hanmi Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. Dong-A Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. and other generic companies initiated separate invalidity actions in the Korean Intellectual Property Office against Korean Patent No. 160,523 (the  523 patent) covering the entecavir molecule. In January 2015, the Korean Intellectual Property Tribunal ruled that the '523 patent is valid and the decision was affirmed on appeal in September 2015 by the Patent Court. The  523 patent expired on October 9, 2015. Following the expiration of the  523 patent, generic companies have entered the South Korean market and we expect continuing declines in net product sales of   Baraclude   in 2016. 
  Plavix*     Australia 
  As previously disclosed, Sanofi was notified that, in August 2007, GenRx Proprietary Limited (GenRx) obtained regulatory approval of an application for clopidogrel bisulfate 75mg tablets in Australia. GenRx, formerly a subsidiary of Apotex Inc. (Apotex), has since changed its name to Apotex. In August 2007, Apotex filed an application in the Federal Court of Australia (the Federal Court) seeking revocation of Sanofi s Australian Patent No. 597784 (Case No. NSD 1639 of 2007). Sanofi filed counterclaims of infringement and sought an injunction. On September 21, 2007, the Federal Court granted Sanofi s injunction. A subsidiary of the Company was subsequently added as a party to the proceedings. In February 2008, a second company, Spirit Pharmaceuticals Pty. Ltd., also filed a revocation suit against the same patent. This case was consolidated with the Apotex case and a trial occurred in April 2008. On August 12, 2008, the Federal Court of Australia held that claims of Patent No. 597784 covering clopidogrel bisulfate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, and taurocholate salts were valid. The Federal Court also held that the process claims, pharmaceutical composition claims, and claim directed to clopidogrel and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts were invalid. The Company and Sanofi filed notices of appeal in the Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia (Full Court) appealing the holding of invalidity of the claim covering clopidogrel and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts, process claims, and pharmaceutical composition claims which have stayed the Federal Court s ruling. Apotex filed a notice of appeal appealing the holding of validity of the clopidogrel bisulfate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, and taurocholate claims. A hearing on the appeals occurred in February 2009. On September 29, 2009, the Full Court held all of the claims of Patent No. 597784 invalid. In November 2009, the Company and Sanofi applied to the High Court of Australia (High Court) for special leave to appeal the judgment of the Full Court. In March 2010, the High Court denied the Company and Sanofi s request to hear the appeal of the Full Court decision. The case has been remanded to the Federal Court for further proceedings related to damages sought by Apotex. The Australian government has intervened in this matter and is also seeking damages for alleged losses experienced during the period when the injunction was in place. The Company and Apotex have settled the Apotex case and the case has been dismissed. The Australian government's claim is still pending. It is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of the Australian government s claim or its impact on the Company. 
  Eliquis   - Inter-Partes Review (IPR) 
  In August 2015, Bristol-Myers Squibb received a Petition for Inter Partes Review of U.S. Patent No. 6,967,208 ( the  208 patent ) that was filed at the United States Patent   Trademark Office by the Coalition for Affordable Drugs, which is affiliated with entities and individuals associated with a hedge fund. The  208 patent is a composition of matter patent that contains claims directed to apixaban, the active ingredient in   Eliquis  . The petition requests that the Patent Trial and Appeal Board (PTAB) initiate a proceeding to review the validity of the  208 patent, including claims that cover apixaban. The Company responded to and opposed this petition in November 2015. The PTAB is expected to render a decision as to whether it will initiate this proceeding in mid-February 2016. If the PTAB decides to initiate the proceeding, a decision on the merits would be expected by the first half of 2017. The Company intends to vigorously defend the  208 patent against this challenge. The  208 patent expires in February 2023; the Company has filed a request for patent term restoration with the U.S. Patent   Trademark Office requesting that the patent expiration date be restored to December 2026.  
    100 

Sprycel   - European Union 
  In May 2013, Apotex, Actavis Group PTC ehf, Generics [UK] Limited (Mylan) and an unnamed company filed oppositions in the European Patent Office (EPO) seeking revocation of European Patent No. 1169038 (the  038 patent) covering dasatinib, the active ingredient in   Sprycel  . The  038 patent is scheduled to expire in April 2020 (excluding potential term extensions). On January 20, 2016, the Opposition Division of the EPO revoked the  038 patent. The Company will appeal the EPO s decision to the EPO Board of Appeal. The  038 patent will remain in force pending the outcome of our appeal of the EPO s decision, and we intend to pursue legal options to defend our intellectual property rights from any future infringement. Orphan drug exclusivity and data exclusivity for   Sprycel   in the EU expire in November 2016. The decision does not affect the validity of our other   Sprycel   patents within and outside Europe, including a different patent that covers the monohydrate form of dasatinib. In the U.S., the Company entered into a settlement agreement with Apotex in 2013 regarding a patent infringement suit whereby Apotex can launch its generic dasatinib monohydrate abbreviated New Drug Application product in September 2024, or earlier in certain circumstances. 
  Anti-PD-1 Antibody Patent Oppositions and Litigation 
  We have brought claims of infringement in a number of ongoing patent litigations against Merck   Co., Inc. (Merck) around the world with respect to patents directed to methods of treating cancer using a PD-1 antibody. Under our alliance with Ono, BMS has exclusive rights to these patents, including a European patent (EP 1 537 878) (the  878 patent). In 2011, Merck filed an opposition in the European Patent Office (EPO) seeking revocation of the  878 patent. In June 2014, the Opposition Division of the EPO maintained the validity of the claims in the  878 patent. Merck has appealed this decision. 
  In May 2014, Merck filed a lawsuit in the United Kingdom (UK) seeking revocation of the UK national version of the  878 patent. In July 2014, BMS and Ono sued Merck for patent infringement. A trial was held in the UK in July 2015. In October 2015, the court issued its judgment, finding the  878 patent valid and infringed. Merck has appealed this judgment. 
  In February 2015, Merck filed a lawsuit in the Netherlands seeking revocation of the Dutch national version of the  878 patent and BMS and Ono subsequently sued Merck for patent infringement. A trial regarding the validity and infringement of the  878 patent was held on January 29, 2016; the decision by the Dutch court is pending. 
  In December 2015, BMS and Ono filed lawsuits with respect to national versions of the  878 patent in several other European countries, including France, Germany, Ireland, Spain and Switzerland. BMS and Ono can file patent infringement actions against Merck in other national courts in Europe at or around the time Merck launches   Keytruda*  . If any of the above-mentioned national courts determine Merck infringes a valid claim in the  878 patent, BMS and Ono may be entitled to monetary damages, including royalties on future sales of   Keytruda*  . BMS and Ono are not seeking an injunction to prevent Merck from marketing   Keytruda*   in these litigations unless an appropriate financial remedy cannot be agreed upon or awarded by the court. 
  In September 2014, BMS and Ono filed a lawsuit in the United States alleging that Merck s marketing of   Keytruda*   infringes U.S. Patent No. 8,728,474 (the  474 patent). The trial in this matter is currently scheduled to begin in April 2017. In June and July 2015, BMS and Ono filed lawsuits in the United States alleging that Merck s marketing of   Keytruda*   infringes U.S. Patent Nos. 9,067,999 (the  999 patent) and 9,073,994 (the  994 patent), respectively, which are patents related to the  474 patent. In these lawsuits, BMS and Ono are not seeking to prevent or stop the marketing of   Keytruda*   in the United States unless an appropriate financial remedy cannot be agreed upon or awarded by the court. 
  In April 2014, Merck, and three other companies, opposed a European patent (EP 2 161 336) (the  336 patent) which is directed to a class of anti-PD-1 antibodies. In February 2015, BMS and Ono submitted a request to amend the claims of the  336 patent. Oral proceedings before the Opposition Division of the EPO are scheduled for July 2016. 
  In September 2014, Merck filed a lawsuit in Australia seeking the revocation of Australian Patent No. 2011203119, which is directed to a class of anti-PD-1 antibodies and is based on the same application as the  336 patent. In March 2015, BMS and Ono countersued Merck for patent infringement. Ono and BMS have similar and other patents and applications pending in the United States and other countries. 
  In September 2015, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute (Dana-Farber) filed a complaint in Massachusetts federal court seeking to correct the inventorship of five related U.S. patents. Specifically, Dana-Farber is seeking to add two scientists as inventors to these patents. Three of these patents (the  474,  999, and  994 patents) are currently subject to patent infringement proceedings filed by BMS and Ono against Merck in Delaware federal court, as specified above. 
  PRICING, SALES AND PROMOTIONAL PRACTICES LITIGATION 
  AWP Litigation 
  As previously disclosed, the Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers, has been a defendant in a number of private class actions as well as suits brought by the attorneys general of various states. In these actions, plaintiffs allege that defendants caused the Average Wholesale Prices (AWPs) of their products to be inflated, thereby injuring government programs, entities and persons who reimbursed prescription drugs based on AWPs. The Company remains a defendant in   two   state attorneys general suits pending in state courts in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. The Company has been designated as one of   four   defendants for separate trials in Wisconsin  
    101 

in 2016. A settlement has been reached between the Company and the other defendants on one hand, and the State of Wisconsin on the other.  
  Beginning in August 2010, the Company was the defendant in a trial in the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Commonwealth Court), brought by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. In September 2010, the jury issued a verdict for the Company, finding that the Company was not liable for fraudulent or negligent misrepresentation; however, the Commonwealth Court judge issued a decision on a Pennsylvania consumer protection claim that did not go to the jury, finding the Company liable for   $28 million   and enjoining the Company from contributing to the provision of inflated AWPs. The Company appealed the decision to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court and in June 2014, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court vacated the Commonwealth judge's decision and remanded the matter back to the Commonwealth Court. In January 2015, the Commonwealth Court entered judgment in favor of the Company. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania appealed this decision to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court, which affirmed the lower court's decision in favor of the Company in December 2015. 
  Qui Tam Litigation 
  In March 2011, the Company was served with an unsealed qui tam complaint filed by   three   former sales representatives in California Superior Court, County of Los Angeles. The California Department of Insurance has elected to intervene in the lawsuit. The complaint alleges the Company paid kickbacks to California providers and pharmacies in violation of California Insurance Frauds Prevention Act, Cal. Ins. Code   1871.7. In December 2015, the Company and the California Department of Insurance reached an agreement on the financial terms of a settlement in principle. The parties are continuing negotiations of the terms of a final settlement. 
  Plavix*   State Attorneys General Lawsuits 
  The Company and certain affiliates of Sanofi are defendants in consumer protection and/or false advertising actions brought by several states relating to the sales and promotion of   Plavix*  . It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits or their potential impact on the Company. 
  PRODUCT LIABILITY LITIGATION 
  The Company is a party to various product liability lawsuits. Plaintiffs in these cases seek damages and other relief on various grounds for alleged personal injury and economic loss.  As previously disclosed, in addition to lawsuits, the Company also faces unfiled claims involving its products. 
  Plavix* 
  As previously disclosed, the Company and certain affiliates of Sanofi are defendants in a number of individual lawsuits in various state and federal courts claiming personal injury damage allegedly sustained after using   Plavix*  . Currently, over   5,200   claims involving injury plaintiffs as well as claims by spouses and/or other beneficiaries, are filed in state and federal courts in various states including California, New Jersey, Delaware and New York. In February 2013, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation granted the Company and Sanofi s motion to establish a multidistrict litigation to coordinate Federal pretrial proceedings in   Plavix*   product liability and related cases in New Jersey Federal Court. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits or the potential impact on the Company. 
  Reglan* 
  The Company is one of a number of defendants in numerous lawsuits, on behalf of approximately   3,000   plaintiffs, including injury plaintiffs claiming personal injury allegedly sustained after using   Reglan*   or another brand of the generic drug metoclopramide, a product indicated for gastroesophageal reflux and certain other gastrointestinal disorders, as well as claims by spouses and/or other beneficiaries.  The Company, through its generic subsidiary, Apothecon, Inc., distributed metoclopramide tablets manufactured by another party between 1996 and 2000. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits. The resolution of these pending lawsuits, however, is not expected to have a material impact on the Company. 
  Byetta* 
  Amylin, a former subsidiary of the Company, and Lilly are co-defendants in product liability litigation related to   Byetta*.   To date, there are over   500   separate lawsuits pending on behalf of over   2,400   active plaintiffs (including pending settlements), which include injury plaintiffs as well as claims by spouses and/or other beneficiaries, in various courts in the U.S. The Company has agreed in principle to resolve over   510   of these claims.  The majority of these cases have been brought by individuals who allege personal injury sustained after using   Byetta*  , primarily pancreatic cancer and pancreatitis, and, in some cases, claiming alleged wrongful death. The majority of cases were pending in Federal Court in San Diego in a multi-district litigation (MDL) or in a coordinated proceeding in California Superior Court in Los Angeles (JCCP) and in November 2015, the defendants' motion for summary judgment based on federal preemption was granted in both the MDL and the JCCP.  Plaintiffs have appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The cases in the JCCP have not yet been formally dismissed. Amylin has product liability insurance covering a substantial number of claims involving   Byetta*   and any additional liability to Amylin with respect to   Byetta*   is expected to be shared between the Company and AstraZeneca. It is not possible to reasonably predict the outcome of any lawsuit, claim or proceeding or the potential impact on the Company. 
    102 

SHAREHOLDER DERIVATIVE LITIGATION 
  In December 2015,   two   shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in New York state court against certain officers and directors of the Company. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, breaches of fiduciary duty surrounding the Company s previously disclosed October 2015 civil settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission of alleged Foreign Corrupt Practices Act violations in which the Company agreed to a payment of approximately   $14.7   million in disgorgement, penalties and interest.   
  GOVERNMENT INVESTIGATIONS 
  Like other pharmaceutical companies, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local government agencies in the U.S. and other countries in which BMS operates. As a result, the Company, from time to time is subject to various governmental inquiries and investigations. It is possible that criminal charges, substantial fines and/or civil penalties, could result from government investigations.  The most significant investigations conducted by government agencies are listed below. 
  Abilify*     State Attorneys General Investigation 
  In March 2009, the Company received a letter from the Delaware Attorney General s Office advising of a multi-state coalition investigating whether certain   Abilify*   marketing practices violated those respective states  consumer protection statutes. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this investigation. 
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEEDINGS 
  As previously reported, the Company is a party to several environmental proceedings and other matters, and is responsible under various state, federal and foreign laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), for certain costs of investigating and/or remediating contamination resulting from past industrial activity at the Company s current or former sites or at waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third parties. 
  CERCLA Matters 
  With respect to CERCLA matters for which the Company is responsible under various state, federal and foreign laws, the Company typically estimates potential costs based on information obtained from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or counterpart state or foreign agency and/or studies prepared by independent consultants, including the total estimated costs for the site and the expected cost-sharing, if any, with other  potentially responsible parties,  and the Company accrues liabilities when they are probable and reasonably estimable. The Company estimated its share of future costs for these sites to be   $60 million   at December 31, 2015, which represents the sum of best estimates or, where no best estimate can reasonably be made, estimates of the minimal probable amount among a range of such costs (without taking into account any potential recoveries from other parties). 
  North Brunswick Township Board of Education 
  As previously disclosed, in October 2003, the Company was contacted by counsel representing the North Brunswick, NJ Board of Education (BOE) regarding a site where waste materials from E.R. Squibb and Sons may have been disposed from the 1940 s through the 1960 s. Fill material containing industrial waste and heavy metals in excess of residential standards was discovered during an expansion project at the North Brunswick Township High School, as well as at a number of neighboring residential properties and adjacent public park areas. In January 2004, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) sent the Company and others an information request letter about possible waste disposal at the site, to which the Company responded in March 2004. The BOE and the Township, as the current owners of the school property and the park, are conducting and jointly financing soil remediation work and ground water investigation work under a work plan approved by the NJDEP, and have asked the Company to contribute to the cost. The Company is actively monitoring the clean-up project, including its costs. To date, neither the school board nor the Township has asserted any claim against the Company. Instead, the Company and the local entities have negotiated an agreement to attempt to resolve the matter by informal means, and avoid litigation. A central component of the agreement is the provision by the Company of interim funding to help defray cleanup costs and assure the work is not interrupted. The Company transmitted interim funding payments in December 2007 and November 2009. The parties commenced mediation in late 2008; however, those efforts were not successful and the parties moved to a binding allocation process. The parties are expected to conduct fact and expert discovery, followed by formal evidentiary hearings and written argument. In addition, in September 2009, the Township and BOE filed suits against several other parties alleged to have contributed waste materials to the site; that litigation has now been settled by the parties. The Company does not currently believe that it is responsible for any additional amounts beyond the   two   interim payments totaling   $4 million   already transmitted. Any additional possible loss is not expected to be material. 
    103 

Note   23  . SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) 

(a) 
    Earnings per share for the quarters may not add to the amounts for the year, as each period is computed on a discrete basis. 
      (b) 
    Marketable securities includes current and non-current assets. 

104 

The following specified items affected the comparability of results in   2015   and   2014  : 
  2015   

                 (a) 
    Specified items in cost of products sold are accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and other shutdown costs. 
      (b) 
    Specified items in marketing, selling and administrative are process standardization implementation costs. 

105 

2014   
                (a) 
    Specified items in cost of products sold are accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and other shutdown costs. 
      (b) 
    Includes $16 million of additional year of Branded Prescription Drug Fee in the third quarter. 
      (c) 
    Specified tax charge relates to transfer pricing matters. 

106 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 
    
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.  
    
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  
    
  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  
    
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on the criteria established in   Internal Control-Integrated Framework   (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 12, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
    
  Parsippany, New Jersey 
  February 12, 2016 
    
    107 

Item 9. 
    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE. 

None. 
      
                 Item 9A. 
    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
    
  As of   December 31, 2015  , management carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of its chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that as of   December 31, 2015  , such disclosure controls and procedures were effective. 
    
  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
    
  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, management assessed the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2015   based on the framework in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that assessment, management has concluded that the Company s internal control over financial reporting was effective at   December 31, 2015   to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of its financial statements for external purposes in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company s financial statements included in this report on Form 10-K and issued its report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2015  , which is included herein. 
    
  Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
    
  There were no changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2015 that have materially affected, or are reasonable likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting. 
      
                 Item 9B. 
    OTHER INFORMATION 

None. 
    
    108 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 
    
  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in   Internal Control-Integrated Framework   (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
    
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  
    
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  
    
  Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
    
  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on the criteria established in   Internal Control-Integrated Framework   (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
    
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015 of the Company and our report dated February 12, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. 
    
  /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
    
  Parsippany, New Jersey 
  February 12, 2016 
    
    109 

PART III 
      
                 Item 10. 
    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. 

(a) 
    Reference is made to the   2016   Proxy Statement to be filed on or about   March 21, 2016   with respect to the Directors of the Registrant, which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 10. 
              (b) 
    The information required by Item 10 with respect to the Executive Officers of the Registrant has been included in Part IA of this Form 10-K in reliance on General Instruction G of Form 10-K and Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K. 
         
                 Item 11. 
    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION. 

Reference is made to the   2016   Proxy Statement to be filed on or about   March 21, 2016   with respect to Executive Compensation, which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 11. 
      
                 Item 12. 
    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS. 

Reference is made to the   2016   Proxy Statement to be filed on or about   March 21, 2016   with respect to the security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management, which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 12. 
                   Item 13. 
    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS. 

Reference is made to the   2016   Proxy Statement to be filed on or about   March 21, 2016   with respect to certain relationships and related transactions, which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 13. 

Reference is made to the   2016   Proxy Statement to be filed on or about   March 21, 2016   with respect to auditor fees, which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 14. 
    110 

PART IV 
                   Item 15. 
    EXHIBITS and FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE. 

(a) 

Page 
  Number 
      1. 
    Consolidated Financial Statements 

Consolidated Statements of Earnings    and Comprehensive Income 
    58 
        
     Consolidated Balance Sheets  
    59 
        
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  
    60 
        
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
    61 
        
     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
    107 

All other schedules not included with this additional financial data are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto. 

2. 
     Exhibits Required to be filed by Item 601 of Regulation S-K  
    113 

The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit Index in this Form 10-K. 
    111 

SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
                   BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY 
  (Registrant) 

By 
      
    /s/ GIOVANNI CAFORIO 

Giovanni Caforio 

Chief Executive Officer 
        
      Date: February 12, 2016 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 
                       Signature 
      
    Title 
      
    Date 

/s/ GIOVANNI CAFORIO, M.D. 
      
    Chief Executive Officer and Director 
      
    February 12, 2016 
      (Giovanni Caforio, M.D.) 
      
    (Principal Executive Officer) 

/s/ CHARLES BANCROFT 
      
    Chief Financial Officer 
      
    February 12, 2016 
      (Charles Bancroft) 
      
    (Principal Financial Officer) 

/s/ JOSEPH C. CALDARELLA 
      
    Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller 
      
    February 12, 2016 
      (Joseph C. Caldarella) 
      
    (Principal Accounting Officer) 

/s/ LAMBERTO ANDREOTTI 
      
    Chairman of the Board of Directors 
      
    February 12, 2016 
      (Lamberto Andreotti) 

/s/ LEWIS B. CAMPBELL 
      
    Director 
      
    February 12, 2016 
      (Lewis B. Campbell) 

/s/ LAURIE H. GLIMCHER, M.D. 
      
    Director 
      
    February 12, 2016 
      (Laurie H. Glimcher, M.D.) 

/s/ MICHAEL GROBSTEIN 
      
    Director 
      
    February 12, 2016 
      (Michael Grobstein) 

/s/ ALAN J. LACY 
      
    Director 
      
    February 12, 2016 
      (Alan J. Lacy) 

/s/ THOMAS J. LYNCH, JR., M.D. 
      
    Director 
      
    February 12, 2016 
      (Thomas J. Lynch, Jr., M.D.) 

/s/ DINESH C. PALIWAL 
      
    Director 
      
    February 12, 2016 
      (Dinesh C. Paliwal) 

/s/ VICKI L. SATO, PH.D. 
      
    Director 
      
    February 12, 2016 
      (Vicki L. Sato, Ph.D.) 

/s/ GERALD L. STORCH 
      
    Director 
      
    February 12, 2016 
      (Gerald L. Storch) 

/s/ TOGO D. WEST, JR. 
      
    Director 
      
    February 12, 2016 
      (Togo D. West, Jr.) 

112 

EXHIBIT INDEX 
  The Exhibits listed below are identified by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. The Exhibits designated by the symbol    are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed pursuant to Item 15. The symbol   in the Page column indicates that the Exhibit has been previously filed with the Commission and is incorporated herein by reference. Unless otherwise indicated, all Exhibits are part of Commission File Number 1-1136. 

113 

114 

10f. 
      
    Extension notice dated June 2, 2014 for the Five Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated as of September 29, 2011 among Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, the several financial institutions from time to time party to the agreement, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank N.A. as administrative agents (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10a to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2014). 

10g. 
      
    Extension notice dated June 2, 2014 for the Five Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated as of July 30, 2012 among Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, the several financial institutions from time to time party to the agreement, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank N.A. as administrative agents (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10b to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2014). 

10h. 
      
    Extension notice dated June 1, 2015, for the Five Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated as of September 29, 2011 among Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, and the several financial institutions from time to time party to the agreement, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank N.A. as administrative agents (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10a to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2015). 

10i. 
      
    Extension notice dated June 1, 2015, for the Five Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated as of July 30, 2012 among Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, the several financial institutions from time to time party to the agreement, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank N.A. as administrative agents (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10b to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2015). 

10j. 
      
    SEC Consent Order (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10s to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2004). 

10k. 
      
    Master Restructuring Agreement between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Sanofi dated as of September 27, 2012 (incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10a to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2012).   

10l. 
      
    Side Letter to Master Restructuring Agreement between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Sanofi dated as of January 1, 2013 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10p to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012).   

10m. 
      
    Restated Development and Commercialization Collaboration Agreement between Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company dated as of October 23, 2001 (incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10.12 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).  

10n. 
      
    Amendment No. 3 to the Restated Development and Commercialization Collaboration Agreement between Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company dated as of September 25, 2006 (incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10.13 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).  

10o. 
      
    Amendment No. 5 to the Restated Development and Commercialization Collaboration Agreement between Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company effective as of April 4, 2009 (incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10.14 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).  

10p. 
      
    Amendment No. 9 to the Restated Development and Commercialization Collaboration Agreement between Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company effective as of October 29, 2012 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 1ee to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012).   

10q. 
      
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, effective as of May 7, 2002 and as amended effective June 10, 2008 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008). 

10r. 
      
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan, effective as of May 1, 2012 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit B to the 2012 Proxy Statement dated March 20, 2012). 

10s. 
      
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan, effective as of May 1, 2007 and as amended effective June 10, 2008 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008). 

10t. 
      
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company TeamShare Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated effective September 10, 2002 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10c to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002). 

10u. 
      
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the 2002 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10s to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005). 

115 

116 

10oo. 
      
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Non-Employee Directors  Stock Option Plan, as amended (as approved by the Stockholders on May 2, 2000, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit A to the 2000 Proxy Statement dated March 20, 2000). 

10pp. 
      
    Squibb Corporation Deferral Plan for Fees of Outside Directors, as amended (as adopted, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10e Squibb Corporation 1991 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1987, File No. 1-5514; as amended effective December 31, 1991 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10m to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992). 

12 
       
    Statement re computation of ratios (filed herewith). 
         
    E-12-1 

21 
       
    Subsidiaries of the Registrant (filed herewith). 
         
    E-21-1 

23 
       
    Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP (filed herewith). 
         
    E-23-1 

31a. 
       
    Section 302 Certification Letter (filed herewith). 
         
    E-31-1 

31b. 
       
    Section 302 Certification Letter (filed herewith). 
         
    E-31-1 

32a. 
       
    Section 906 Certification Letter (filed herewith). 
         
    E-32-1 

32b. 
       
    Section 906 Certification Letter (filed herewith). 
         
    E-32-2 

101. 
       
    The following financial statements from the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Annual Report on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, formatted in Extensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL): (i) consolidated statements of earnings, (ii) consolidated statements of comprehensive income, (iii) consolidated balance sheets, (iv) consolidated statements of cash flows, and (v) the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 

Confidential treatment has been granted for certain portions which are omitted in the copy of the exhibit electronically filed with the Commission. 

* 
    Indicates, in this Form 10-K, brand names of products, which are registered trademarks not solely owned by the Company or its subsidiaries.   Byetta, Bydureon,   and   Symlin   are trademarks of Amylin Pharmaceuticals, LLC;   Farxiga, Onglyza and Kombiglyze   are trademarks of AstraZeneca AB;   Erbitux   is a trademark of ImClone LLC;   Avapro/Avalide   (known in the EU as   Aprovel/Karvea  ) and   Plavix   are trademarks of Sanofi;   Abilify   is a trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.;   Truvada   and   Tybost   are     trademarks of Gilead Sciences, Inc. and/or one of its affiliates;   Gleevec   is a trademark of Novartis AG;   Atripla   is a trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences, LLC;   Norvir   is a trademark of AbbVie Inc.;   Myalept   is a trademark of Aegerion Pharmaceuticals, Inc.;   Reglan   is a trademark of ANIP Acquisition Company;   Revlimid   is a trademark of Celgene Corporation;   Prostvac   is a trademark of BN ImmunoTherapeutics Inc.;   Keytruda   is a trademark of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.;   Recothrom   is a trademark of The Medicines Company and   Ixempra   is a trademark of R-Pharm US Operating, LLC. Brand names of products that are in all italicized letters, without an asterisk, are registered trademarks of BMS and/or one of its subsidiaries. 

117 

<EX-10.Y>
 2
 exhibit10yperformanceshare.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.Y

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 10y. 
  
  PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS AGREEMENT 
  Under the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 
  2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan 
  2016-2018 Performance Share Units Award 
  BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), has granted to you the Performance Share Units ( Performance Share Units ) specified in the Grant Summary located on the Stock Plan Administrator s website, which is incorporated into this Performance Share Units Agreement (the  Agreement ) and deemed to be a part hereof.  This award is subject in all respects to the terms, definitions and provisions of the 2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) adopted by the Company.  Capitalized terms used in this Agreement that are not specifically defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan. 
                 
  Award Date:  March 10, 2016 
  Service Period: March 10, 2016 to March 10, 2019 
  Performance Period:  January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2018 
  Total Shareholder Return ( TSR ) Measurement Period:  March 10, 2016 to February 28, 2019 
  Performance Goals:  The Performance Goals are included in Exhibit A attached hereto.   
  Minimum Performance Condition:  If you have been designated a Covered Employee for 2016, then a required condition in order for you to vest in Performance Share Units will be that the Minimum Performance Condition has been achieved (in addition to achievement of the Performance Goals).  The Minimum Performance Condition is included in Exhibit A attached hereto. 
  Vesting:  The Performance Share Units will vest on March 10, 2019, subject to the performance conditions described in Section 4 and Exhibit A hereto, and subject to earlier vesting at the times indicated in Sections 6 (including in connection with certain terminations following a Change in Control) and 8. 
  Settlement:  Vested Performance Share Units will be settled by delivery of one share of the Company s Common Stock, $0.10 par value per share ( Shares ), for each Performance Share Unit being settled.  Settlement shall occur at the time specified in Sections 4 and 6 hereof, as applicable. 

1. 
    PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS AWARD 
     The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the  Committee ) has granted to you an award of Performance Share Units as designated herein subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth in this Agreement.  The target number of Performance Share Units and the kind of shares deliverable in settlement, the calculation of total revenues (net of foreign exchange) and non-GAAP operating margin, and other terms and conditions of the Performance Share Units are subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 11 hereof and Plan Section 11(c). 
    1 

2. 
    CONSIDERATION 
     As consideration for grant of this award, you shall remain in the employ of the Company and/or its subsidiaries or affiliates for the entire Service Period or such lesser period as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion, and no Performance Share Units shall be payable until after the completion of such Service Period or lesser period of employment by you (except as set forth in Sections 6 and 8 hereof, as applicable). In addition, you shall remain in compliance with the covenants set forth in Section 10 hereof for the applicable periods specified therein. 
           3. 
    MINIMUM PERFORMANCE CONDITION AND PERFORMANCE GOALS 
     The Minimum Performance Condition and the Performance Goals are specified on the cover page of this Agreement and Exhibit A hereto.  
           4. 
    DETERMINATION OF PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS VESTED; FORFEITURES; SETTLEMENT 
     Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, Performance Share Units shall be subject to the restrictions and conditions set forth herein during the period from the Award Date until the date such Performance Share Unit has become vested and non-forfeitable (the  Restricted Period ).  Between February 28, 2019 and March 10, 2019, the Committee shall determine and certify the Company s actual performance in relation to the (i) established Minimum Performance Condition, if applicable, and (ii) the established Performance Goals for the Performance Period and the TSR Measurement Period.  The Committee shall certify these results in writing in accordance with Plan Section 7(c).  Between February 28, 2019 and March 10, 2019, the Committee shall determine and certify the extent to which Performance Share Units are deemed vested on the basis of the foregoing, provided, however, that, in the case of clause (ii) above, the Committee may exercise its discretion (reserved under Plan Sections 7(a) and 7(b)(v)) to reduce the amount of Performance Share Units deemed eligible for vesting in its assessment of performance in relation to Performance Goals, or in light of other considerations the Committee deems relevant.  Any Performance Share Units that are not, based on the Committee s determination, deemed eligible for vesting by performance during the Performance Period and the TSR Measurement Period (or deemed to be vested in connection with a termination of employment under Sections 6 and 8 below), including Performance Share Units that had been potentially eligible for vesting by performance in excess of the actual performance levels achieved, shall be canceled and forfeited.   
  Vesting of the Performance Share Units is conditioned upon you remaining employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company during the entire Service Period, except as set forth in Sections 6 and 8 of this Agreement.  If, before the end of the Service Period, you are no longer an employee of the Company, its subsidiaries or an affiliate of the Company, any Performance Share Units that have not been vested and which cannot thereafter be vested under Sections 6 or 8 shall be canceled and forfeited.   
  In certain termination events as specified in Sections 6 and 8 and in connection with a long-term Disability (as defined in Section 7), you will be entitled to vesting of a prorated portion of the Performance Share Units awarded. The formula for determining the prorated portion to which you are entitled can be found in the pro rata summaries for equity awards on the Company s Stock Plan Administrator s website. 
  The number of Performance Share Units vested shall be rounded to the nearest whole Performance Share Unit, unless otherwise determined by the Company officers responsible for day-to-day administration of the Plan.  
    2 

Performance Share Units that vest after the end of the Service Period shall be settled promptly, and in any event within 60 days of the vesting date, by delivery of one Share for each Performance Share Unit being settled.  Performance Share Units that become vested under Sections 6(a), 6(b), 6(c), 6(d) or 8 shall be settled at the times specified therein; provided, however, that settlement of Performance Share Units under Sections 6(a), (b), (c) or (d) shall be subject to the applicable provisions of Plan Section 11(k).  (  Note:  Plan Section 11(k) could apply if settlement is triggered by a Change in Control or a termination following a Change in Control  ).  Until Shares are delivered to you in settlement of Performance Share Units, you shall have none of the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to the Shares issuable in settlement of the Performance Share Units, including the right to vote the shares and receive distributions.   
           5. 
    NONTRANSFERABILITY OF PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS 
     During the Restricted Period and any further period prior to settlement of your Performance Share Units, you may not sell, transfer, pledge or assign any of the Performance Share Units or your rights relating thereto.  If you attempt to assign your rights under this Agreement in violation of the provisions herein, the Company s obligation to settle Performance Share Units or otherwise make payments shall terminate. 
    
           6. 
    RETIREMENT AND OTHER TERMINATIONS (EXCLUDING DEATH) 
     (a)   Retirement.    In the event of your Retirement prior to settlement of the Performance Share Units, you will be deemed vested in a prorated portion of the Performance Share Units granted, provided that you have been employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for at least one year following the Award Date and your employment has not been terminated by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company; provided, however, that if you are only eligible for Retirement pursuant to Plan Section 2(x)(iii), and you are employed in the United States or Puerto Rico at the time of your Retirement, you shall be entitled to the pro rata vesting described in this Section 6(a) only if you execute and do not revoke a release in favor of the Company and its predecessors, successors, affiliates, subsidiaries, directors and employees in a form satisfactory to the Company; if you revoke or fail to execute the release, or your release fails to become effective and irrevocable within 60 days of the date your employment terminates, you shall forfeit any Performance Share Units that are unvested as of the date your employment terminates.  Any Performance Share Units deemed vested under this Section 6(a) shall be settled at the earlier of (i) the date such Performance Share Units would have settled if you had continued to be employed by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, (ii) in the event of a Change in Control meeting the conditions of Section 6(e)(ii), within 60 days following the date at which the Committee determines (which determination shall be made within 15 days after the Change in Control) the extent to which such Performance Share Units have been deemed vested (subject to Section 6(e) below and Plan Section 11(k)), where the achievement of the Performance Goals shall be determined in accordance with Plan Section 9(a)(ii), or (iii) in the event of your death, within 60 days following the later of (x) your death, or (y) the date upon which the Committee determines the extent to which such Performance Share Units have been deemed vested in accordance with Section 4 (in each case subject to Section 6(e) below and Plan Section 11(k)).  Following your Retirement, any Performance Share Units that have not been deemed vested and which thereafter will not be deemed vested under this Section 6(a) will be canceled and forfeited.  
  (b)   Termination by the Company Not For Cause.    In the event of your Termination Not for Cause (as defined in Section 6(f)) by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate and not during the Protected Period following a Change in Control, prior to vesting of Performance Share Units, you will be deemed vested in a prorated portion of the Performance Share Units granted, provided that you have been employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for at least one year following the Award Date; provided, however, that if you are not eligible for Retirement, and you are employed in the United States or Puerto Rico at the time of your Termination Not for Cause, you shall be entitled to the pro rata vesting described in this Section  
    3 

6(b) only if you execute and do not revoke a release in favor of the Company and its predecessors, successors, affiliates, subsidiaries, directors and employees in a form satisfactory to the Company; if you revoke or fail to execute the release, or your release fails to become effective and irrevocable within 60 days of the date your employment terminates, you shall forfeit any Performance Share Units that are unvested as of the date your employment terminates.  Any Performance Share Units deemed vested under this Section 6(b) shall be settled at the earlier of (i) the date such Performance Share Units would have settled if you had continued to be employed by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, (ii) in the event of a Change in Control meeting the conditions of Section 6(e)(ii), within 60 days following the date at which the Committee determines (which determination shall be made within 15 days after the Change in Control) the extent to which such Performance Share Units have been deemed vested (subject to Section 6(e) below and Plan Section 11(k)), where the achievement of the Performance Goals shall be determined in accordance with Plan Section 9(a)(ii), or (iii) in the event of your death, within 60 days following the later of (x) your death, or (y) the date upon which the Committee determines the extent to which such Performance Share Units have been deemed vested in accordance with Section 4 (in each case, subject to Section 6(e) below and Plan Section 11(k)).   Following such Termination Not for Cause, any Performance Share Units that have not been vested and which thereafter will not be deemed vested under this Section 6(b) will be canceled and forfeited. 
  (c)   Qualifying Termination Following a Change in Control.    In the event that you have a Qualifying Termination as defined in Plan Section 9(c) during the Protected Period following a Change in Control, you will be deemed vested in a prorated portion of the Performance Share Units granted.  Upon a Qualifying Termination, the achievement of the Performance Goals shall be determined in accordance with Plan Section 9(a)(ii).  Any of your  Performance Share Units deemed vested under this Section 6(c) shall be settled promptly following the date at which the Committee determines the extent to which such Performance Share Units have been vested (subject to Section 6(e) below and Plan Section 11(k)).  Upon your Qualifying Termination, any Performance Share Units that have not been deemed vested under this Section 6(c) will be canceled and forfeited.  
  (d)   Other Terminations.    If you cease to be an employee of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates for any reason other than Retirement, Termination Not for Cause, a Qualifying Termination within the Protected Period following a Change in Control, or death, Performance Share Units granted herein that have not become vested shall be canceled and forfeited and you shall have no right to settlement of any portion of such Performance Share Units. 
  (e)   Special Distribution Rules to Comply with Code Section 409A  .  The Performance Share Units constitute a  deferral of compensation  under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the  Code ), based on Internal Revenue Service regulations and guidance in effect on the Award Date.  As a result, the timing of settlement of your Performance Share Units will be subject to applicable limitations under Code Section 409A.  Specifically, the Performance Share Units will be subject to Plan Section 11(k), including the following restrictions on settlement: 
  (i) Settlement of the Performance Share Units under Section 6(c) upon a Qualifying Termination will be subject to the requirement that the termination constitute a  separation from service  under Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(h), and subject to the six-month delay rule under Plan Section 11(k)(i)(C)(2) if at the time of separation from service you are a  Specified Employee  provided that no dividend or dividend equivalents will be paid, accrued or accumulated in respect of the period during which settlement was delayed. 
  (ii) Settlement of the Performance Share Units under Sections 6(a) or 6(b) in the event of a Change in Control will occur only if an event relating to the Change in Control constitutes a change in ownership or effective control of the Company or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company within the meaning  
    4 

of Treas. Reg.   1.409A-3(i)(5) and only if your Retirement under Section 6(a) or Termination Not for Cause under Section 6(b) constitute a  separation from service  under Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(h). 
  (f)   Definition of  Termination Not for Cause.     For purposes of this Section 6, a  Termination Not for Cause  means a termination initiated by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for reason other than willful misconduct, activity deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, or Disability (as defined in Section 7 below), provided that if you are employed in the United States or Puerto Rico at the time of your Termination Not for Cause, you execute and do not revoke a release in favor of the Company and its predecessors, successors, affiliates, subsidiaries, directors and employees in a form satisfactory to the Company by the applicable deadline specified in Section 6(b). 
  (g)   Determination of Termination Date.    For purposes of the Performance Share Units, your employment will be considered terminated as of the date you are no longer actively providing services to the Company or one of its subsidiaries or affiliates (regardless of the reason for such termination and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), and unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement or determined by the Company, your right to vest in the Performance Share Units under the Plan, if any, will terminate as of such date and will not be extended by any notice period (  e.g.  , your period of service would not include any contractual notice period or any period of  garden leave  or similar period mandated under employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing services for purposes of your Performance Share Units (including whether you may still be considered to be providing services while on a leave of absence). 
  (h)   Release Procedure.    In any case in which you are required to execute a release as a condition to vesting and settlement of the Performance Share Units, the applicable procedure shall be as specified under Plan Section 11(k)(v), except that the deadline for complying with such condition shall be the period provided in this Agreement. 
           7. 
    DISABILITY OF PARTICIPANT 
     For purposes of this Agreement,  Disability  or  Disabled  shall mean qualifying for and receiving payments under a disability plan of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate either in the United States or in a jurisdiction outside of the United States, and in jurisdictions outside of the United States shall also include qualifying for and receiving payments under a mandatory or universal disability plan or program managed or maintained by the government.  If you become Disabled, you will not be deemed to have terminated employment for the period during which, under the applicable Disability pay plan of the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, you are deemed to be employed and continue to receive Disability payments.  However, no period of continued Disability shall continue beyond 29 months for purposes of this Agreement, at which time you will have considered to have separated from service in accordance with applicable laws as more fully provided for herein and specifically in Section 6(e) above. Upon the cessation of payments under such Disability pay plan, (i) if you return to employment status with the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, you will not be deemed to have terminated employment, and (ii) if you do not return to such employment status or are considered to have separated from service as noted above, you will be deemed to have terminated employment at the date of cessation of such Disability payments, with such termination treated for purposes of the Performance Share Units as a Retirement, death, Termination Not for Cause or voluntary termination based on your circumstances at the time of such termination. 
    5 

8. 
    DEATH OF PARTICIPANT 
     In the event of your death while employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company and prior to settlement of Performance Share Units, you will be deemed vested in a prorated portion of Performance Share Units, provided that you have been employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for at least one year following the Award Date.  Your beneficiary shall be entitled to settlement of any of your Performance Share Units that were deemed vested within 60 days following the later of (x) your death, or (y) the date upon which the Committee determines the extent to which such Performance Share Units have been deemed vested in accordance with Section 4 (in each case, subject to Section 6(e) above and Plan Section 11(k)).  In the case of your death, any Performance Share Units that have not been vested and thereafter will not be deemed vested under this Section 8 will be canceled and forfeited. 
           9. 
    RESPONSIBILITY FOR TAXES 
     You acknowledge that, regardless of any action taken by the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company, including your employer ( Employer ), the ultimate liability for all income tax (including federal, state, local and non-U.S. taxes), social security, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you or deemed by the Company or the Employer to be an appropriate charge to you even if legally applicable to the Company or the Employer ( Tax-Related Items ) is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer.  You further acknowledge that the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate and/or the Employer: (a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Performance Share Units, including the grant of the Performance Share Units, the vesting of Performance Share Units, the conversion of the Performance Share Units into Shares or the receipt of an equivalent cash payment, the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired at settlement and the receipt of any dividends; and, (b) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Performance Share Units to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result.  Further, if you are subject to Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
  Prior to the relevant taxable event, you agree to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items.  In this regard, by your acceptance of the Performance Share Units, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy their withholding obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: 
  (a) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer; or  
  (b) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon settlement of the Performance Share Units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent); or  
  (c) withholding in Shares to be issued upon settlement of the Performance Share Units;  
  provided, however, if you are a Section 16 officer of the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, then the Company will withhold Shares upon the relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, unless the use of such withholding method is problematic under applicable tax or securities law or has materially adverse accounting consequences, in which case, the obligation for Tax-Related Items may be satisfied by one or a combination of methods (a) and (b) above. 
    6 

Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates, in which case you will receive a refund of any over-withheld amount in cash and will have no entitlement to the Share equivalent.  If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding in Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested Performance Share Units, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items. 
  Finally, you agree to pay to the Company or the Employer, including through withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer, any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of Shares, if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items. 
  Notwithstanding anything in this Section 9 to the contrary, to avoid a prohibited acceleration under Section 409A, if Shares subject to the Performance Share Units will be sold on your behalf (or withheld) to satisfy any Tax-Related Items arising prior to the date of settlement of the Performance Share Units for any portion of the Performance Share Units that is considered nonqualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A, then the number of shares sold on your behalf (or withheld) shall not exceed the number of shares that equals the liability for Tax-Related Items. 
           10. 
    NON-COMPETITION AND NON-SOLICITATION AGREEMENT AND COMPANY RIGHT TO INJUNCTIVE RELIEF, DAMAGES, RECISSION, FORFEITURE AND OTHER REMEDIES    
     You acknowledge that your continued employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company and/or the grant of Performance Share Units pursuant to this Agreement is sufficient consideration for this Agreement, including, without limitation, all applicable restrictions imposed on you by this Section 10. 
  (a)   Confidentiality Obligations and Agreement  . By accepting this Award Agreement, you agree and/or reaffirm the terms of all agreements related to treatment of Confidential Information that you signed at the inception of or during your employment, the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference.  This includes, but is not limited to, use or disclosure of any BMS Confidential Information, Proprietary Information, or Trade Secrets to third parties.  Confidential Information, Proprietary Information, and Trade secrets include, but are not limited to, any information gained in the course of your employment with the Company that is marked as confidential or could reasonably be expected to harm the Company if disclosed to third parties, including without limitation, any information that could reasonably be expected to aid a competitor or potential competitor in making inferences regarding the nature of the Company s business activities, where such inferences could reasonably be expected to allow such competitor to compete more effectively with the Company.   You agree that you will not remove or disclose Company Confidential Information, Proprietary Information or Trade Secrets.  Unauthorized removal includes forwarding or downloading confidential information to personal email or other electronic media and/or copying the information to personal unencrypted thumb drives, cloud storage or drop box.    Immediately upon termination of your employment for any reason, you will return to the Company all of the Company s confidential and other business materials that you have or that are in your possession or control and all copies thereof, including all tangible embodiments thereof, whether in hard copy or electronic format and you shall not retain any versions thereof on any personal computer or any other media (  e.g.  , flash drives, thumb drives, external hard drives and the like). Nothing in this paragraph or Agreement limits or prohibits your right to report potential violations of law , rules, or regulations to, or communicate with, cooperate with, testify before, or otherwise assist in an investigation or proceeding by, any government agency or entity, or engage in any other conduct  
    7 

that is required or protected by law or regulation, and you are not required to obtain the prior authorization of the Company to do so and are not required to notify the Company that you have done so. 
  (b)   Inventions  . To the extent permitted by local law, you agree and/or reaffirm the terms of all agreements related to inventions that you signed at the inception of or during your employment, and agree to promptly disclose and assign to the Company all of your interest in any and all inventions, discoveries, improvements and business or marketing concepts related to the current or contemplated business or activities of the Company, and which are conceived or made by you, either alone or in conjunction with others, at any time or place during the period you are employed by the Company. Upon request of the Company, including after your termination, you agree to execute, at the Company s expense, any and all applications, assignments, or other documents which the Company shall determine necessary to apply for and obtain letters patent to protect the Company s interest in such inventions, discoveries, and improvements and to cooperate in good faith in any legal proceedings to protect the Company s intellectual property. 
    
  (c)   Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Related Covenants  . By accepting this Agreement, you agree to the restrictive covenants outlined in this section unless expressly prohibited by local law or as follows:  The post-termination non-compete restrictions outlined in subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (v) of this Section 10(c) do not apply to employees who are, at the time of termination from employment by BMS, assigned to work for BMS resident full-time in the States of California or North Dakota, except that should said employee accept employment outside of California or North Dakota, all restrictions in Section 10(c), including, but not limited to, those pertaining to post-termination activities, shall be fully enforceable. There are no exemptions for any Award recipients (including employee residents of the States of California and North Dakota) regarding non-compete provisions while employed at the Company or from subparagraphs (iii), (iv) and (vi) of this Section 10(c) during the entire Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period. 
  Given the extent and nature of the confidential information that you have obtained or will obtain during the course of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, it would be inevitable or, at the least, substantially probable that such confidential information would be disclosed or utilized by you should you obtain employment from, or otherwise become associated with, an entity or person that is engaged in a business or enterprise that directly competes with the Company.  Even if not inevitable, it would be impossible or impracticable for the Company to monitor your strict compliance with your confidentiality obligations.  Consequently, you agree that you will not, directly or indirectly: 
  (i) during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period (as defined below), own or have any financial interest in a Competitive Business (as defined below), except that nothing in this clause shall prevent you from owning one per cent or less of the outstanding securities of any entity whose securities are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange (including NASDAQ) or an equivalent foreign exchange; 
    
  (ii) during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, whether or not for compensation, either on your own behalf or as an employee, officer, agent, consultant, director, owner, partner, joint venturer, shareholder, investor, or in any other capacity, be actively connected with a Competitive Business or otherwise advise or assist a Competitive Business with regard to any product, investigational compound, technology, service, line of business, department or business unit that competes with any product, technology, service, line of business, department or business unit with which you worked or about which you became familiar as a result of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, after your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company terminates for any reason, you may be affiliated with a Competitive Business provided that your affiliation does not involve any product, investigational compound, technology or service, that competes with any product, investigational compound, technology or service with which you were involved within the last  
    8 

twelve months of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, including any product, investigational compound, technology or service which the Company is developing and of which you had knowledge, and you and the Competing Business provide the Company written assurances of this fact prior to your commencing such affiliation; 
    
  (iii) during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, employ, solicit for employment, solicit, induce, encourage, or participate in soliciting, inducing or encouraging any Company employee who is employed by the Company or who was employed by the Company within the twelve months preceding the termination of your employment with the Company for any reason, to terminate or reduce his or her or its relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates, successors or assigns (the  Related Parties  
    
  (iv) during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, solicit, induce, encourage, or appropriate or attempt to solicit, divert or appropriate, by use of Confidential Information or otherwise, any existing or prospective customer, vendor or supplier of the Company or any Related Parties to terminate, cancel or otherwise reduce its relationship with the Company or any Related Parties; 
    
  (v) during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, contact, call upon or solicit any existing customer of the Company or its Related Parties, or prospective customer of the Company or its Related Parties, that you became aware of or was introduced to in the course of your duties for the Company or its Related Parties, or otherwise divert or take away from the Company or its Related Parties the business of any current or prospective customer of the Company or its Related Parties; or 
    
  (vi) during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, engage in any activity that is harmful to the interests of the Company or its Related Parties, including, without limitation, any conduct during the term of your employment that violates the Company s Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics, securities trading policy and other policies.  
    
  (d)   Rescission, Forfeiture and Other Remedies  .  If the Company determines that you have violated any applicable provisions of Section 10(c) above during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, in addition to injunctive relief and damages, you agree and covenant that: 
  (i) any unvested portion of the Performance Share Units shall be immediately rescinded; 
    
  (ii) you shall automatically forfeit any rights you may have with respect to the Performance Share Units as of the date of such determination; 
    
  (iii) if the Performance Share Units vests within the twelve-month period immediately preceding a violation of Section 10(c) above (or following the date of any such violation), upon the Company s demand, you shall immediately deliver to it a certificate or certificates for Shares that you acquired upon settlement of such Performance Share Units (or an equivalent number of other shares); and 
    
  (iv) the foregoing remedies set forth in this Section 10(d) shall not be the Company s exclusive remedies.  The Company reserves all other rights and remedies available to it at law or in equity. 
    
  (e)   Definitions  .  For purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply: 
    9 

(i)  Competitive Business  means any business that is engaged in or is about to become engaged in the development, production or sale of any product, process or service concerning the treatment of any disease, which product, process or service resembles or competes with any product, process or service that was sold by, or in development at, the Company or a subsidiary of the Company during your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. 
    
  (ii) Because of the global nature of the Company s business, it is agreed that the restrictions set forth above shall apply in the  Restricted Area,  defined as including without limitation the continent, country and the geographic regions where you worked in and were responsible for while employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, and any other geographic area (country, province, state, city or other political subdivision) in which the Company or a subsidiary of the Company is engaged in business and/or is otherwise selling products or services at the time you ceased working for the Company or a subsidiary of the Company;  
           (A) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines the foregoing geographic scope is unenforceable, the  Restricted Area  shall be defined as the continent, country and the geographic regions where you worked and were responsible for while employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company;   
              (B) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines that the foregoing geographic scope is unenforceable, the  Restricted Area  shall be defined as the country in which you worked; 
              (C) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines that the foregoing geographic scope is unenforceable, the  Restricted Area  shall be defined as the geographic regions that you serviced and were responsible for while employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. 
       
  (iii) The  Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period  shall be the period during which Employee is employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company and   twelve (12) months   after the end of Employee s term of employment with and/or work for the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for any reason, (  e.g.  , restriction applies regardless of the reason for termination and includes voluntary and involuntary termination) (hereinafter  Termination Date  
       
           (A) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines that such period is unenforceable, the  Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period  shall be the period of your employment and an additional   eleven (11) months   after your employment Termination Date with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for any reason; 
              (B) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines that such period is unenforceable, the  Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period  shall be the period of your employment and an additional   ten (10) months   after your employment Termination Date with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for any reason; 
              (C) 
    provided further, in the event that the Company or a subsidiary of the Company files an action to enforce rights arising out of this Agreement, the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period shall be extended for all periods of time in which you are determined by the Court or other authority to have been in violation of the provisions of Section 10(c). 
       
    10 

(f)   Severability  . You acknowledge and agree that the period, scope and geographic areas of restriction imposed upon you by this Section 10 are fair and reasonable and are reasonably required for the protection of the Company.  In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions will not in any way be affected or impaired and this Agreement shall nevertheless continue to be valid and enforceable as though the invalid provisions were not part of this Agreement.  If the final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority declares that any term or provision hereof is invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the parties agree that the court making such determination shall have the power to reduce the scope, duration, area or applicability of the term or provision, to delete specific words or phrases, or to replace any invalid, illegal or unenforceable term or provision with a term or provision that is valid, legal and enforceable to the maximum extent permissible under law and that comes closest to expressing the intention of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable term or provision.  You acknowledge and agree that your covenants under this Agreement are ancillary to your employment relationship with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, but shall be independent of any other contractual relationship between you and the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.  Consequently, the existence of any claim or cause of action that you may have against the Company or a subsidiary of the Company shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement of this Agreement by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, nor an excuse for noncompliance with this Agreement. 
  (g)   Additional Remedies  . You acknowledge and agree that any violation by you of this paragraph will cause irreparable harm to the Company and its Related Parties and the Company cannot be adequately compensated for such violation by damages.  Accordingly, if you violate or threaten to violate this Agreement, then, in addition to any other rights or remedies that the Company may have in law or in equity, the Company shall be entitled, without the posting of a bond or other security, to obtain an injunction to stop or prevent such violation, including but not limited to obtaining a temporary or preliminary injunction from a Delaware court pursuant to Section 1(a) of the Mutual Arbitration Agreement and Section 20 of this Agreement. You further agree that if the Company incurs legal fees or costs in enforcing this Agreement, you will reimburse the Company for such fees and costs. 
  (h)   Binding Obligations  . These obligations shall be binding both upon you, your assigns, executors, administrators and legal representatives. At the inception of or during the course of your employment, you may have executed agreements that contain similar terms. Those agreements remain in full force and effect.  In the event that there is a conflict between the terms of those agreements and this Agreement, this Agreement will control. 
  (i)   Enforcement  . The Company retains discretion regarding whether or not to enforce the terms of the covenants contained in this Section 10 and its decision not to do so in your instance or anyone s case shall not be considered a waiver of the Company s right to do so. 
  (j)   Duty to Notify  . During your employment with the Company and for a period of 12 months after your termination of employment from the Company, you shall communicate your obligations under this Agreement to each subsequent employer.  In addition, you shall advise the Company of the name and address of your intended future employer, including the title of the position accepted with the subsequent employer.  While employed at the Company, you are required to provide this information immediately upon acceptance of a position with a new employer.  Once terminated from the Company, upon resignation from any subsequent employer.  The Company shall have the right to advise any subsequent employer of your obligations hereunder. 
    11 

11. 
    DIVIDENDS AND OTHER ADJUSTMENTS 
     (a) Dividends or dividend equivalents are not paid, accrued or accumulated on Performance Share Units during the Restricted Period, except as provided in Section 11(b). 
  (b) The target number of Performance Share Units, the number of Performance Share Units deemed vested, the kind of securities deliverable in settlement of Performance Share Units and/or any performance measure based on per share results shall be appropriately adjusted in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of your rights with respect to the Performance Share Units upon the occurrence of an event referred to in Plan Section 11(c).  In furtherance of the foregoing, in the event of an equity restructuring, as defined in FASB ASC Topic 718, which affects the Shares, you shall have a legal right to an adjustment to your Performance Share Units which shall preserve without enlarging the value of the Performance Share Units, with the manner of such adjustment to be determined by the Committee in its discretion.  Any Performance Share Units or related rights which directly or indirectly result from an adjustment to a Performance Share Unit hereunder shall be subject to the same risk of forfeiture and other conditions as apply to the granted Performance Share Unit and will be settled at the same time as the granted Performance Share Unit. 
           12. 
    EFFECT ON OTHER BENEFITS 
     In no event shall the value, at any time, of the Performance Share Units or any other payment or right to payment under this Agreement be included as compensation or earnings for purposes of any other compensation, retirement, or benefit plan offered to employees of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates unless otherwise specifically provided for in such plan.  Performance Share Units and the income and value of the same are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes including, but not limited to, calculation of any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy or end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits, or similar payments. 
           13. 
    ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NATURE OF PLAN AND PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS 
     In accepting the Performance Share Units, you acknowledge, understand and agree that:  
  (a) The Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, to the extent permitted by the Plan;  
  (b) The award of Performance Share Units is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of Performance Share Units, or benefits in lieu of Performance Share Units even if Performance Share Units have been awarded in the past;  
  (c) All decisions with respect to future awards of Performance Share Units or other awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;  
  (d) Your participation in the Plan is voluntary;  
  (e) The Performance Share Units and the Shares subject to the Performance Share Units are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation; 
  (f) Unless otherwise agreed with the Company, the Performance Share Units and the Shares subject to the Performance Share Units, the income and value of the same, are not granted as consideration for, or in connection with, the service you may provide as a director of a subsidiary or an affiliate of the Company; 
  (g) The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with certainty;  
    12 

(h) No claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the forfeiture of Performance Share Units, resulting from termination of your employment or other service relationship with the Company, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), and in consideration of the grant of the Performance Share Units to which you are otherwise not entitled, you irrevocably agree never to institute any claim against the Company, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or the Employer, waive your ability, if any, to bring such claim, and release the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate and/or the Employer from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by participating in the Plan, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agree to execute any and all documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claim; 
  (i) Unless otherwise provided in the Plan or by the Company in its discretion, the Performance Share Units and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have the Performance Share Units or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the shares of the Company; 
  (j) The following provisions apply only if you are providing services outside the United States: (i) the award and the Shares subject to the Performance Share Units are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose; (ii) neither the Company, the Employer nor any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between your local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the Performance Share Units or of any amounts due to you pursuant to the settlement of the Performance Share Units or the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired upon settlement; and 
  (k) You agree that the Company may recover any incentive-based compensation received by you under this Agreement, including, without limitation, pursuant to Sections 6, 7 and 8 hereof, if such recovery is pursuant to a clawback or recoupment policy approved by the Committee. 
           14. 
    NO ADVICE REGARDING GRANT 
     The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your participation in the Plan or your acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares.  You are hereby advised to consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan. 
           15. 
    RIGHT TO CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT 
     Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or any specific position or level of employment with the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or affect in any way the right of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company to terminate your employment without prior notice at any time for any reason or no reason. 
           16. 
    ADMINISTRATION; UNFUNDED OBLIGATIONS 
     The Committee shall have full authority and discretion, subject only to the express terms of the Plan, to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this Agreement, and all such Committee determinations shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate, you, and all interested parties.  Any provision for distribution in settlement of your Performance Share Units and other obligations hereunder shall be by means of bookkeeping entries on the books of the Company and shall not create in you or any beneficiary any right to, or claim against any, specific assets of  
    13 

the Company, nor result in the creation of any trust or escrow account for you or any beneficiary.  You and any of your beneficiaries entitled to any settlement or other distribution hereunder shall be a general creditor of the Company. 
   You are required to accept the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement prior to the first anniversary of the Award Date in order for you to receive the award granted to you.  If you wish to decline this award, you must reject this Agreement prior to the first anniversary of the Award Date.  For your benefit, if you have not rejected the Agreement prior to the first anniversary of the Award Date, you will be deemed to have automatically accepted this award and all the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.  Deemed acceptance will allow the shares to be released to you in a timely manner and once released, you waive any right to assert that you have not accepted the terms hereof. 
   This Agreement shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, as amended from time to time, except that, subject to Sections 26 and 28 below, Performance Share Units which are the subject of this Agreement may not be materially adversely affected by any amendment or termination of the Plan approved after the Award Date without your written consent.  
           19. 
    SEVERABILITY AND VALIDITY 
     The various provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable. 
           20. 
    GOVERNING LAW, JURISDICTION AND VENUE 
     This Agreement and award grant shall be governed by the substantive laws (but not the choice of law rules) of the State of Delaware.  The forum in which disputes arising under this Performance Share Unit grant and Agreement shall be decided depends on whether you are subject to the Mutual Arbitration Agreement.  
  (a) If you are subject to the Mutual Arbitration Agreement, any dispute that arises under this Performance Share Unit grant or Agreement shall be governed by the Mutual Arbitration Agreement.  Any application to a court under Section 1(a) of the Mutual Arbitration Agreement for temporary or preliminary injunctive relief in aid of arbitration or for the maintenance of the status quo pending arbitration shall exclusively be brought and conducted in the courts of Wilmington, Delaware, or the federal courts for the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, and no other courts where this Performance Share Unit grant is made and/or performed.  The parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware for purposes of any such application for injunctive relief.  
  (b) If you are not subject to the Mutual Arbitration Agreement, this Agreement and Award grant shall be governed by the substantive laws (but not the choice of law rules) of the State of Delaware.  For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises under this Performance Share Unit grant or Agreement, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, agree that such litigation shall exclusively be conducted in the courts of Wilmington, Delaware, or the federal courts for the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, and no other courts where this Performance Share Unit grant is made and/or performed. 
    14 

This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors, assigns, and heirs of the respective parties. 
   You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. 
  You understand that the Company, any subsidiary and/or the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security number or other identification number (e.g., resident registration number), salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all Performance Share Units or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor ( Data ), for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan. 
  You understand that Data may be transferred to Fidelity, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which assists in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  You understand that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country (e.g. the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.  In this case, appropriate safeguards will be taken by the Company to ensure that your Data is processed with an adequate level of protection and in compliance with applicable local laws and regulation (especially through contractual clauses like European Model Clauses for European countries).  You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative.  You authorize the Company, Fidelity and other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the Shares received upon vesting of the Performance Share Units may be deposited.  You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan.  You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting your local human resources representative.  Further, you understand that you are providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis.  If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you Performance Share Units or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards.  Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan.  For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative. 
           23. 
    ELECTRONIC DELIVERY AND ACCEPTANCE 
     The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means.  You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic  
    15 

delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic systems established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company. 
           24. 
    INSIDER TRADING/MARKET ABUSE LAWS    
     You acknowledge that, depending on your country of residence, you may be subject to insider trading restrictions and/or market abuse laws, which may affect your ability to acquire or sell Shares or rights to Shares (  e.g  ., Performance Share Units) under the Plan during such times as you are considered to have  inside information  regarding the Company (as defined by the laws in your country).  Any restrictions under these laws or regulations are separate from and in addition to any restrictions that may be imposed under any applicable Company insider trading policy.  You acknowledge that it is your responsibility to comply with any applicable restrictions, and you should speak to your personal advisor on this matter. 
     If you have received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control. 
           26. 
    COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS 
     Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan or this Agreement, unless there is an available exemption from any registration, qualification or other legal requirement applicable to the Shares, you understand that the Company will not be obligated to issue any Shares pursuant to the vesting and settlement of the Performance Share Units, if the issuance of such Shares shall constitute a violation by you or the Company of any provision of law or regulation of any governmental authority.  Further, you agree that the Company shall have unilateral authority to amend the Plan and the Agreement without your consent to the extent necessary to comply with securities or other laws applicable to issuance of shares.  Any determination by the Company in this regard shall be final, binding and conclusive. 
           27. 
    ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND NO ORAL MODIFICATION OR WAIVER 
     This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties, provided that, if you are subject to the Mutual Arbitration Agreement, then the Mutual Arbitration Agreement is hereby incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement.  Subject to Sections 26, 28 and 30, and the provisions of the Addendum, this Agreement shall not be modified or amended except in writing duly signed by the parties except that the Company may adopt a modification or amendment to the Agreement that is not materially adverse to you in writing signed only by the Company.  Any waiver of any right or failure to perform under this Agreement shall be in writing signed by the party granting the waiver and shall not be deemed a waiver of any subsequent failure to perform. 
   Your Performance Share Units shall be subject to any special provisions set forth in the Addendum to this Agreement for your country, if any.  If you relocate to one of the countries included in the Addendum, the special provisions for such country shall apply to you, without your consent, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such provisions is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons.  The Addendum, if any, constitutes part of this Agreement.  
    16 

29. 
    FOREIGN ASSET/ACCOUNT REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND EXCHANGE CONTROLS    
     Your country may have certain foreign asset and/or foreign account reporting requirements and exchange controls which may affect your ability to acquire or hold Shares under the Plan or cash received from participating in the Plan (including from any dividends paid on Share sale proceeds resulting from the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan) in a brokerage or bank account outside your country.  You may be required to report such accounts, assets or transactions to the tax or other authorities in your country.  You also may be required to repatriate sale proceeds or other funds received as a result of your participation in the Plan to your country through a designated bank or broker within a certain time after receipt.  You acknowledge that it is your responsibility to be compliant with such regulations, and you should consult your personal legal advisor for any details. 
           30. 
    IMPOSITION OF OTHER REQUIREMENTS 
     The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Performance Share Units and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.  
                     
    For the Company 
        
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 

By 

I have read this Agreement in its entirety.  I understand that this award has been granted to provide a means for me to acquire and/or expand an ownership position in Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.  I acknowledge and agree that sales of Shares will be subject to the Company s policies regulating trading by employees.  In accepting this award, I hereby agree that Fidelity, or such other vendor as the Company may choose to administer the Plan, may provide the Company with any and all account information for the administration of this award. 
    
  I hereby agree to all the terms, restrictions and conditions set forth in the Agreement, including, but not limited to, post-employment obligations related to non-competition and non-solicitation. 

17 

Exhibit A  
  PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS AGREEMENT 
  Under the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 
  2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan 
    
  2016-2018 Performance Share Units Award 
  Minimum Performance Condition and Performance Goals for the Performance Period and TSR Measurement Period 
    
  If Participant has been designated a Covered Employee for 2016, then a required condition in order for Participant to vest in Performance Share Units in the manner set forth below will be that the Company s Non-GAAP Pretax Earnings    (1)    for the 2016-2018 fiscal years shall equal or exceed $_______ million (the  Minimum Performance Condition ).  If Participant has not been designated a Covered Employee for 2016, then Participant shall vest in Performance Share Units in the manner set forth below. 
  Between February 28, 2019 and March 10, 2019, the Committee shall determine and certify the extent to which Performance Share Units are deemed vested based on the Company s 2016-2018 Total Revenues Performance (net of foreign exchange), 2016-2018 Non-GAAP Operating Margin Performance and Three-Year Relative Total Shareholder Return ( TSR ) Performance, determined based on the following grid:  

Participant shall vest in 50% of the target number of Performance Share Units for  Threshold Performance,  100% of the target number of Performance Share Units for  Target Performance,  and 200% of the target number of Performance Share Units for  Maximum Performance.   For this purpose, 2016-2018 Total Revenues Performance (net of foreign exchange) is weighted 33%, 2016-2018 Non-GAAP Operating Margin Performance is Weighted 33% and Three-Year Relative TSR Performance is weighted 34%, so the level of vesting of Performance Share Units shall be determined on a weighted-average basis.   
   Non-GAAP Operating Margin  shall mean (a) earnings before interest and tax, less other income and expenses, divided by (b) total revenues (net of foreign exchange). 
    
   Total Shareholder Return (TSR)  shall mean the change in the value, expressed as a percentage of a given dollar amount invested in a company's most widely publicly traded stock over the TSR Measurement Period, taking into account both stock price appreciation (or depreciation) and the reinvestment of dividends (including the cash value of non-cash dividends) in additional stock of the company.  The ten (10) trading-day average closing values of the Company's Common Stock and the stock of the Peer Companies, as applicable (  i.e.  , average closing values over the period of 10 trading days ending on the Award Date and the final 10 trading days ending on the last day of the TSR Measurement Period), shall be used to value the Company's Common Stock and the stock of the Peer Companies, as applicable, at the beginning and end of the TSR Measurement Period.  Dividend reinvestment shall be calculated consistently for the Company and all Peer Companies. 
    
   (1)   For purposes of this Agreement, Non-GAAP Pretax Earnings is defined as earnings from continuing operations on a consolidated basis before deduction of income taxes, less pretax minority interest expenses, excluding discontinued operations, extraordinary items and other non-recurring items. 
    
    1 

Peer Companies  shall mean the following companies which remain publicly traded throughout the entire TSR Measurement Period: 
    
                 AbbVie 
    GlaxoSmithKline 
      Amgen 
    Johnson   Johnson 
      AstraZeneca 
    Merck 
      Biogen Idec 
    Novartis 
      Celgene 
    Pfizer 
      Eli Lilly 
    Roche 
      Gilead Sciences 
    Sanofi 

Companies that were publicly traded as of the Award Date but are no longer publicly traded as of the end of the TSR Measurement Period shall be excluded, except that companies that are no longer publicly traded as of the end of the TSR Measurement Period due to filing for bankruptcy prior to the end of the TSR Measurement Period shall be assigned a Total Shareholder Return of -100% for the TSR Measurement Period.  In the case of a merger or acquisition involving two Peer Companies during the TSR Measurement Period, the acquiree or merged company, as the case may be, shall be removed from the list of Peer Companies, and the acquirer or successor company, as the case may be, shall remain on the list of Peer Companies.  In the case of a spinoff involving a Peer Company during the TSR Measurement Period, such company shall remain on the list of Peer Companies, provided that it remains an appropriate peer.  Any new company formed as a result of the spinoff shall not be added to the list of Peer Companies for the current TSR Measurement Period (however, such company may be added to the list of Peer Companies for subsequent awards, if the Committee deems such inclusion appropriate). 
    
   TSR Measurement Period  shall mean March 10, 2016 to February 28, 2019. 
    
   TSR Percentile Rank  shall mean the percentage of TSR values among the Peer Companies during the TSR Measurement Period that are lower than the Company's TSR during the TSR Measurement Period.  For example, if the Company's TSR during the TSR Measurement Period is at the 51   st    percentile, 49% of the Peer Companies had higher TSR during the TSR Measurement Period and 51% of the companies in the Peer Companies had equal or lower TSR during the TSR Measurement Period.  For purposes of the TSR Percentile Rank calculation, the Company will be excluded from the group of Peer Companies. 
    
  Determinations of the Committee regarding 2016-2018 Non-GAAP Pretax Earnings, 2016-2018 Total Revenues Performance (net of foreign exchange), 2016-2018 Non-GAAP Operating Margin Performance, Three-Year Relative TSR Performance and the resulting Performance Share Units vested, and related matters, will be final and binding on Participant.  In making its determinations with respect to 2016-2018 Total Revenues Performance (net of foreign exchange), 2016-2018 Non-GAAP Operating Margin Performance and Three-Year Relative TSR Performance, the Committee may exercise its discretion (reserved under Plan Sections 7(a) and 7(b)(v)) to reduce the amount of Performance Share Units deemed vested, in its sole discretion.  

2 

Addendum 
    
  BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY 
  SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR Performance Share Units IN CERTAIN COUNTRIES 
  Unless otherwise provided below, capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Agreement.  This Addendum includes special country-specific terms that apply if you are residing and/or working in one of the countries listed below. This Addendum is part of the Agreement. 
  This Addendum also includes information of which you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Plan.  For example, certain individual exchange control reporting requirements may apply upon vesting of the Performance Share Units and/or sale of Shares.  The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws in effect in the respective countries as of January 2016 and is provided for informational purposes.  Such laws are often complex and change frequently, and results may be different based on the particular facts and circumstances.  As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you do not rely on the information noted herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at the time your Performance Share Units vest or are settled, or you sell Shares acquired under the Plan. 
  In addition, the information is general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of any particular result.  Accordingly, you should seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation. 
  Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you currently are residing and/or working, transfer employment after the Performance Share Units are granted to you, or are considered a resident of another country for local law purposes, the information contained herein for the country you are residing and/or working in at the time of grant may not be applicable to you, and the Company shall, in its discretion, determine to what extent the terms and conditions contained herein shall be applicable to you.  If you transfer residency and/or employment to another country or are considered a resident of another country listed in the Addendum after the Performance Share Units are granted to you, the terms and/or information contained for that new country (rather than the original grant country) may be applicable to you.   
  All Countries 
  Retirement.   The following provision supplements Section 6(a) of the Agreement: 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company receives a legal opinion that there has been a legal judgment and/or legal development in your jurisdiction that likely would result in the favorable treatment that applies to the Performance Share Units in the event of your Retirement being deemed unlawful and/or discriminatory, the provisions of Section 6(a) regarding the treatment of the Performance Share Units in the event of your Retirement shall not be applicable to you. 
  Algeria 
  Exchange Control Information.    Proceeds from the settlement of Performance Share Units, sale of Shares and the receipt of any dividends must be repatriated to Algeria.   
  Argentina 
  Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgement.    This provision supplements Section 13 of the Agreement: 
  By accepting the Performance Share Units, you acknowledge and agree that the grant of Performance Share Units is made by the Company (not the Employer) in its sole discretion and that the value of the Performance Share Units or any Shares acquired under the Plan shall not constitute salary or wages for any purpose under Argentine labor law, including, but not limited to, the calculation of (i) any labor benefits including, but not limited to, vacation pay, thirteenth salary, compensation in lieu of notice, annual bonus, disability, and leave of absence payments, etc., or (ii) any termination or severance indemnities or similar payments.    
    Addendum-  1 

If, notwithstanding the foregoing, any benefits under the Plan are considered salary or wages for any purpose under Argentine labor law, you acknowledge and agree that such benefits shall not accrue more frequently than on each vesting date. 
  Securities Law Information.    Neither the Performance Share Units nor the underlying Shares are publicly offered or listed on any stock exchange in Argentina.  The offer is private and not subject to the supervision of any Argentine governmental authority. 
  Exchange Control Information.    You must comply with any and all Argentine currency exchange restrictions, approvals and reporting requirements in connection with your Award. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Argentinian residents must report any Shares acquired under the Plan and held by the resident as of December 31st of each year to the Argentine tax authorities on their annual tax return for that year.  
  Australia 
  Compliance with Laws.    Notwithstanding anything else in the Agreement, you will not be entitled to and shall not claim any benefit under the Plan if the provision of such benefit would give rise to a breach of Part 2D.2 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), any other provision of that Act, or any other applicable statute, rule or regulation which limits or restricts the giving of such benefits.  Further, the Employer is under no obligation to seek or obtain the approval of its shareholders in general meeting for the purpose of overcoming any such limitation or restriction. 
  Treatment of Performance Share Units Upon Termination of Employment.    Notwithstanding anything in the Agreement to the contrary, in the event all or a portion of the Shares to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the Performance Share Units become distributable upon your termination of employment or at some time following your termination of employment, the Company may determine, in its discretion, that such Shares will vest and become distributable as soon as practicable following your termination of employment without application of the TSR Modifier.  You will not continue to vest in Performance Share Units or be entitled to any portion of Performance Share Units after your termination of employment.  
  Austria 
  Exchange Control Information  .  If you hold Shares under the Plan outside of Austria (even if you hold them outside of Austria at a branch of an Austrian bank), you may be required to submit a report to the Austrian National Bank as follows: (i) on a quarterly basis if the value of the Shares as of any given quarter meets or exceeds  30,000,000; and (ii) on an annual basis if the value of the Shares as of December 31 meets or exceeds  5,000,000.  The deadline to file the quarterly report is the 15th day of the month following the end of the respective quarter.  The deadline to file the annual report is January 31 of the following year. 
  When Shares are sold, there may be exchange control obligations if the cash proceeds from the sale are held outside Austria.  If the transaction volume of all your cash accounts abroad meets or exceeds  10,000,000, the movements and the balance of all accounts must be reported monthly, as of the last day of the month, on or before the fifteenth day of the following month.  If the transaction value of all cash accounts abroad is less than  10,000,000, no ongoing reporting requirements apply. 
  Belgium 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you are a Belgian resident, you are required to report any security or bank account (including brokerage accounts) you maintain outside of Belgium on your annual tax return.  In a separate report, you will be required to provide the National Bank of Belgium with certain details regarding such foreign accounts (including the account number, bank name and country in which any such account was opened).  The forms to complete this report are available on the website of the National Bank of Belgium. 
  Brazil 
  Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgement.    This provision supplements Section 13 of the Agreement: 
    Addendum-  2 

By accepting the Performance Share Units, you acknowledge and agree that (i) you are making an investment decision, (ii) Shares will be issued to you only if the Minimum Performance Conditions and Performance Goals are met and you meet the employment conditions during the Restricted Period and (iii) the value of the underlying Shares is not fixed and may increase or decrease in value over the Restricted Period. 
  Compliance with Laws.    By accepting the Performance Share Units, you agree that you will comply with Brazilian law when you vest in the Performance Share Units and sell Shares.  You also agree to report and pay any and all taxes associated with the vesting of the Performance Share Units, the sale of the Shares acquired pursuant to the Plan and the receipt of any dividends. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You must prepare and submit a declaration of assets and rights held outside of Brazil to the Central Bank on an annual basis if you hold assets or rights valued at more than US$100,000.  Quarterly reporting is required if such amount exceeds US$100,000,000.  The assets and rights that must be reported include Shares. 
  Tax on Financial Transaction (IOF)  .  Repatriation of funds (  e.g.  , sale proceeds) into Brazil and the conversion of USD into BRL associated with such fund transfers may be subject to the Tax on Financial Transactions.  It is your responsibility to comply with any applicable Tax on Financial Transactions arising from your participation in the Plan.   
  Bulgaria 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you make any payments to or receive any payments from abroad related to the Plan and the respective amount exceeds BGN 100,000, you should fill in and submit to the respective local bank a specific statistical form regarding the source of the income prior to the ordering of the payment or within thirty (30) days of receipt of a notice by the bank that the amount is in your bank account. 
  The Participant may also be required to report annually to the Bulgarian National Bank, as of March 31 of each year, details of the Participant s receivables in bank accounts held abroad as well as the Participant s securities held abroad if the aggregate value of such receivables and securities is equal to or exceeds BGN 50,000 as of December 31 of the previous calendar year. 
  Canada 
  Settlement of Performance Share Units.    Notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, Performance Share Units will be settled in Shares only, not cash. 
  Securities Law Information.    You acknowledge and agree that you will sell Shares acquired through participation in the Plan only outside of Canada through the facilities of a stock exchange on which the Shares are listed.  Currently, the Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 
  Termination of Employment.    This provision supplements Section 6(g) of the Agreement: 
  In the event of your termination of employment or other service relationship (for any reason whatsoever, whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or the Plan, your right to vest in the Performance Share Units, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of (1) the date upon which your employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries is terminated; (2) the date you are no longer actively employed by or providing services to the Company or any of its subsidiaries; or (3) the date you receive written notice of termination of employment, regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under applicable laws (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer employed or actively providing services for purposes of the Performance Share Units (including whether you may still be considered employed or actively providing services while on a leave of absence). 
    Addendum-  3 

Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You may be required to report your foreign property on Form T1135 (Foreign Income Verification Statement) if the total cost of your foreign property exceeds C$100,000 at any time in the year.  Foreign property includes cash held outside of Canada and Shares acquired under the Plan, and it may include unvested Performance Share Units.  The Form T1135 must be filed by April 30 of the following year.  When Shares are acquired, their cost generally is the adjusted cost base ( ACB ) of the Shares.  The ACB would ordinarily equal the fair market value of the Shares at the time of acquisition, but if you own other Shares of the same company, this ACB may have to be averaged with the ACB of the other Shares.  You should consult with your personal tax advisor to determine your reporting requirements.   
  The following provisions apply if you are resident in Quebec: 
  Language Acknowledgment 
  The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this Agreement, including this Addendum, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be provided to them in English. 
  Consentement relatif   la langue utilis e.  Les parties reconnaissent avoir express ment souhait  que la convention ( Agreement ) ainsi que cette Annexe, ainsi que tous les documents, avis et proc dures judiciares,  x cut s, donn s ou intent s en vertu de, ou li s directement ou indirectement   la pr sente convention, soient r dig s en langue anglaise.  
  Data Privacy.    This provision supplements Section 22 of the Agreement: 
  You hereby authorize the Company, the Employer and their representatives to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan.  You further authorize the Company and its subsidiaries to disclose and discuss the Plan with their advisors.  You further authorize the Company and its subsidiaries to record such information and to keep such information in your employee file. 
  Chile 
  Securities Law Information.    The offer of the Performance Share Units constitutes a private offering in Chile effective as of the Award Date.  The offer of Performance Share Units is made subject to general ruling n  336 of the Chilean Superintendence of Securities and Insurance ( SVS ).  The offer refers to securities not registered at the securities registry or at the foreign securities registry of the SVS, and, therefore, such securities are not subject to oversight of the SVS.  Given the Performance Share Units are not registered in Chile, the Company is not required to provide information about the Performance Share Units or Shares in Chile.  Unless the Performance Share Units and/or the Shares are registered with the SVS, a public offering of such securities cannot be made in Chile. 
  Esta oferta de Unidades de Acciones Restringidas constituye una oferta privada de valores en Chile y se inicia en la Fecha de la Concesi n.  Esta oferta de Unidades de Acciones Restringidas se acoge a las disposiciones de la Norma de Car cter General N  336 ( NCG 336 ) de la Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros de Chile ( SVS ).  Esta oferta versa sobre valores no inscritos en el Registro de Valores o en el Registro de Valores Extranjeros que lleva la SVS, por lo que tales valores no est n sujetos a la fiscalizaci n de  sta.  Por tratarse los Unidades de Acciones Restringidas de valores no registrados en Chile, no existe obligaci n por parte de la Compa  a de entregar en Chile informaci n p blica respecto de los Unidades de Acciones Restringidas or sus Acciones.  Estos valores no podr n ser objeto de oferta p blica en Chile mientras no sean inscritos en el Registro de Valores correspondiente. 
  Exchange Control Information.    You are responsible for complying with foreign exchange requirements in Chile.  You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding any applicable exchange control obligations prior to vesting in the Performance Share Units or receiving proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired at vesting or cash dividends.   
  You are not required to repatriate funds obtained from the sale of Shares or the receipt of any dividends.  However, if you decide to repatriate such funds, you must do so through the Formal Exchange Market if the amount of funds exceeds US$10,000.  In such case, you must report the payment to a commercial bank or registered foreign exchange office receiving the funds.  If your aggregate investments held outside of Chile exceed US$5,000,000 (including Shares and any cash proceeds obtained under the Plan) in the relevant calendar year, you must report the investments quarterly to the Central Bank.  Annex  
    Addendum-  4 

3.1 of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations must be used to file this report.  Please note that exchange control regulations in Chile are subject to change. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    The Chilean Internal Revenue Service (   CIRS   ) requires all taxpayers to provide information annually regarding:  (i) the taxes paid abroad which they will use as a credit against Chilean income taxes, and (ii) the results of foreign investments.  These annual reporting obligations must be complied with by submitting a sworn statement setting forth this information before March 15 of each year.  The forms to be used to submit the sworn statement are Tax Form 1853  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Credits for Taxes Paid Abroad  and Tax Form 1851  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Investments Held Abroad.   If you are not a Chilean citizen and have been a resident in Chile for less than three (3) years, you are exempt from the requirement to file Tax Form 1853.  These statements must be submitted electronically through the CIRS website:    www.sii.cl  .  
    
  Investments abroad also must be registered with the CIRS for you to be entitled to a foreign tax credit for any tax withheld on dividends abroad, if applicable, and such registration also provides evidence of the acquisition price of the Shares (which will be zero) which you will need when the Shares are sold.  You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding how to register with the CIRS. 
  China 
  The following provisions apply if you are subject to the exchange control regulations in China, as determined by the Company in its sole discretion: 
  Sale of Shares.    To comply with exchange control regulations in China, you agree that the Company is authorized to force the sale of Shares to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the Performance Share Units at any time (including immediately upon vesting or after termination of your employment, as described below), and you expressly authorize the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of Shares.  You agree to sign any agreements, forms and/or consents that may be reasonably requested by the Company (or the designated broker) to effectuate the sale of Shares and shall otherwise cooperate with the Company with respect to such matters, provided that you shall not be permitted to exercise any influence over how, when or whether the sales occur.  You acknowledge that the Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of Shares at any particular price. 
  Upon the sale of Shares, the Company agrees to pay the cash proceeds from the sale of Shares (less any applicable Tax-Related Items, brokerage fees or commissions) to you in accordance with applicable exchange control laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the restrictions set forth in this Addendum for China below under  Exchange Control Information.   Due to fluctuations in the Share price and/or applicable exchange rates between the vesting date and (if later) the date on which the Shares are sold, the amount of proceeds ultimately distributed to you may be more or less than the market value of the Shares on the vesting date (which typically is the amount relevant to determining your Tax-Related Items liability).  You understand and agree that the Company is not responsible for the amount of any loss you may incur and that the Company assumes no liability for any fluctuations in the Share price and/or any applicable exchange rate. 
  Treatment of Shares and Performance Share Units Upon Termination of Employment.    Due to exchange control regulations in China, you understand and agree that any Shares acquired under the Plan and held by you in your brokerage account must be sold no later than the last business day of the month following the month of your termination of employment, or within such other period as determined by the Company or required by the China State Administration of Foreign Exchange ( SAFE ) (the  Mandatory Sale Date ).  For example, if your termination of employment occurs on March 14, 2016, then the Mandatory Sale Date will be April 30, 2016.  You understand that any Shares held by you that have not been sold by the Mandatory Sale Date will automatically be sold by the Company s designated broker at the Company s direction (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent), as described under "Sale of Shares" above.     
  Notwithstanding anything in the Agreement to the contrary, if all or a portion of the Shares to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the Performance Share Units become distributable upon your termination of employment or at some time following your termination of employment, then such Shares (i) will vest and become distributable within three months of your employment without application of the TSR Modifier; and (ii) must be sold by the Mandatory Sale Date or will be sold by the Company s designated broker at the Company s direction (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent), as described under "Sale of Shares" above.  You will not continue to vest in Performance Share Units or be entitled to any portion of Performance Share Units after your termination of employment.   
    Addendum-  5 

Exchange Control Information.    You understand and agree that, to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements, you are required to hold any Shares to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the Performance Share Units in the account that has been established for you with the Company's designated broker and you acknowledge that you are prohibited from transferring any such Shares to another brokerage account.  In addition, you are required to immediately repatriate to China the cash proceeds from the sale of Shares issued upon vesting and settlement of the Performance Share Units and any dividends paid on such Shares.  You further understand that such repatriation of the cash proceeds will be effectuated through a special exchange control account established by the Company or its subsidiaries, and you hereby consent and agree that the proceeds may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to you.  The Company may deliver the proceeds to you in U.S. dollars or local currency at the Company s discretion.  If the proceeds are paid in U.S. dollars, you understand that you will be required to set up a U.S. dollar bank account in China so that the proceeds may be deposited into this account. If the proceeds are converted to local currency, there may be delays in delivering the proceeds to you and due to fluctuations in the Share trading price and/or the U.S. dollar/PRC exchange rate between the sale/payment date and (if later) when the proceeds can be converted into local currency, the proceeds that you receive may be more or less than the market value of the Shares on the sale/payment date (which is the amount relevant to determining your tax liability).  You agree to bear the risk of any currency fluctuation between the sale/payment date and the date of conversion of the proceeds into local currency. 
  You further agree to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in China. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    PRC residents are required to report to SAFE details of their foreign financial assets and liabilities, as well as details of any economic transactions conducted with non-PRC residents, either directly or through financial institutions.  Under these rules, you may be subject to reporting obligations for the Shares or equity awards, including Performance Share Units, acquired under the Plan and Plan-related transactions.  It is your responsibility to comply with this reporting obligation and you should consult your personal advisor in this regard. 
  Colombia 
  Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgement.    By accepting your award of Performance Share Units, you acknowledge that pursuant to Article 128 of the Colombia Labor Code, the Plan and related benefits do not constitute a component of  salary  for any purposes. 
  Exchange Control Information.    Investments in assets located outside of Colombia (including Shares) are subject to registration with the Central Bank (  Banco de la Rep blica  ) if the aggregate value of such investments is US$500,000 or more (as of December 31 of the applicable calendar year).  Further, upon the sale of any Shares that you have registered with the Central Bank, you must cancel the registration by March 31 of the following year.  You may be subject to fines if you fail to cancel such registration.   
  Securities Law Information.    The Shares are not and will not be registered with the Colombian registry of publicly traded securities (  Registro Nacional de Valores y Emisores  ) and therefore the Shares may not be offered to the public in Colombia.  Nothing in this document should be construed as the making of a public offer of securities in Colombia. 
  Czech Republic 
  Exchange Control Information.    The Czech National Bank may require you to fulfill certain notification duties in relation to the Performance Share Units and the opening and maintenance of a foreign account.  However, because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your personal legal advisor prior to the vesting of the Performance Share Units and the sale of Shares to ensure compliance with current regulations.  It is your responsibility to comply with any applicable Czech exchange control laws. 
    Addendum-  6 

Denmark 
  Stock Option Act.    You acknowledge that you have received an Employer Statement in Danish.  Notwithstanding any provisions in the Agreement to the contrary, if you are determined to be an  Employee,  as defined in section 2 of the Danish Act on the Use of Rights to Purchase or Subscribe for Shares etc. in Employment Relationships (the  Stock Option Act ), the treatment of the Performance Share Units upon termination of employment shall be governed by the Stock Option Act.  However, if the provisions in the Agreement or the Plan governing the treatment of the Performance Share Units upon termination of employment are more favorable, the provisions of the Agreement or the Plan will govern. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.   If you establish an account holding Shares or an account holding cash outside Denmark, you must report the account to the Danish Tax Administration.  The form may be obtained from a local bank.  Please note that these obligations are separate from and in addition to the obligations described below. 
  Securities/Tax Reporting Information.    If you hold Shares acquired under the Plan in a brokerage account with a broker or bank outside Denmark, you are required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about the account.  For this purpose, you must file a Form V (Erklaering V) with the Danish Tax Administration.  Both you and the broker or bank must sign the Form V.  By signing the Form V, the broker or bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the Shares in the account. In the event that the applicable broker or bank with which the account is held does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to report, you acknowledge that you are solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account and any Shares acquired at vesting and held in such account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of your annual income tax return.  By signing the Form V, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.  A sample of the Form V can be found at the following website:   www.skat.dk  . 
  In addition, if you open a brokerage account (or a deposit account with a U.S. bank), the brokerage account likely will be treated as a deposit account because cash can be held in the account.  Therefore, you likely must file a Form K (Erklaering K) with the Danish Tax Administration.  The Form K must be signed both by you and by the applicable broker or bank where the account is held.  By signing the Form K, the broker/bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the account.  In the event that the applicable financial institution (broker or bank) with which the account is held, does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to report, you acknowledge that you are solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of your annual income tax return.  By signing the Form K, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.  A sample of the Form K can be found at the following website:   www.skat.dk  .  
  Egypt 
  Exchange Control Information.    If you transfer funds into Egypt in connection with the Performance Share Units, you are required to transfer the funds through a registered bank in Egypt. 
  Estonia 
  There are no country-specific provisions.  
  Finland 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    Addendum-  7 

France 
  Language Acknowledgement 
  En signant et renvoyant le pr sent document d crivant les termes et conditions de votre attribution, vous confirmez ainsi avoir lu et compris les documents relatifs   cette attribution (le Plan et ce Contrat d Attribution) qui vous ont  t  communiqu s en langue anglaise. 
  By accepting your Performance Share Units, you confirm having read and understood the documents relating to this grant (the Plan and this Agreement) which were provided to you in English. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you hold Shares outside of France or maintain a foreign bank account, (including accounts that were opened and closed during the tax year), you are required to report such to the French tax authorities when filing your annual tax return.  Failure to comply could trigger significant penalties.  Further, if you have a foreign account balance exceeding  1,000,000, you may have additional monthly reporting obligations. 
  Germany 
  Exchange Control Information.    Cross-border payments in excess of  12,500 must be reported to the German Federal Bank.  From September 2013, the German Federal Bank no longer accepts reports in paper form and all reports must be filed electronically.  The electronic  General Statistics Reporting Portal  (  Allgemeines Meldeportal Statistik  ) can be accessed on the German Federal Bank s website: www.bundesbank.de.  
  In the event that you make or receive a payment in excess of this amount, you are responsible for complying with applicable reporting requirements.   
  Greece 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Hong Kong 
  Securities Law Information.      Warning: The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong.  You are advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer.  If you are in any doubt about any of the contents of the Agreement, including this Addendum, or the Plan, or any other incidental communication materials, you should obtain independent professional advice.       The Performance Share Units and any Shares issued at vesting do not constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to employees of the Company or its subsidiaries.  The Agreement, including this Addendum, the Plan and other incidental communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a  prospectus  for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong.  The Performance Share Units are intended only for the personal use of each eligible employee of the Employer, the Company or any subsidiary and may not be distributed to any other person.   
  Settlement of Performance Share Units and Sale of Shares.    Notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, Performance Share Units will be settled in Shares only, not cash.  In addition, notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, no Shares acquired under the Plan can be offered to the public or otherwise disposed of prior to six months from the Award Date.  Any Shares received at vesting are accepted as a personal investment. 
  Nature of Scheme.    The Company specifically intends that the Plan will not be an occupational retirement scheme for purposes of the Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance ( ORSO ).   
  Hungary 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    Addendum-  8 

India 
  Exchange Control Information.    You must repatriate all proceeds received from the sale of Shares to India within 90 days of receipt and all proceeds from the receipt of cash dividends with 180 days of receipt.  You must maintain the foreign inward remittance certificate received from the bank where the foreign currency is deposited in the event that the Reserve Bank of India or the Company or the Employer requests proof of repatriation.    It is your responsibility to comply with applicable exchange control laws in India. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You are required to declare in your annual tax return (a) any foreign assets held by you or (b) any foreign bank accounts for which you have signing authority.  Increased penalties for failing to report these foreign assets/accounts have been introduced.  You are responsible for complying with this reporting obligation and is advised to confer with your personal legal advisor in this regard. 
  Ireland 
  Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and Performance Share Units.    This provision supplements Section 13 of the Agreement: 
    
  In accepting this Agreement, you understand and agree that the benefits received under the Plan will not be taken into account for any redundancy or unfair dismissal claim. 
  Israel 
  Settlement of Performance Share Units and Sale of Shares.    Upon the vesting of the Performance Share Units, you agree to the immediate sale of any Shares to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the Performance Share Units.  You further agree that the Company is authorized to instruct its designated broker to assist with the mandatory sale of such Shares (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization) and you expressly authorize the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of such Shares.  You acknowledge that the Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the Shares at any particular price.  Upon the sale of the Shares, the Company agrees to pay the cash proceeds from the sale of the Shares to you, less any brokerage fees or commissions and subject to any obligation to satisfy Tax-Related Items.  Due to fluctuations in the Share price and/or applicable exchange rates between the vesting date and (if later) the date on which the Shares are sold, the amount of proceeds ultimately distributed to you may be more or less than the market value of the Shares on the vesting date (which typically is the amount relevant to determining your Tax-Related Items liability).  You understand and agree that the Company is not responsible for the amount of any loss you may incur and that the Company assumes no liability for any fluctuations in the Share price and/or any applicable exchange rate.   
  Italy 
  Data Privacy Notice.    This section replaces Section 22 of the Agreement: 
  You understand that the Company and the Employer are the privacy representatives of the Company in Italy and may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships held in the Company or any subsidiaries, details of all Performance Share Units or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, and that the Company and the Employer will process said data and other data lawfully received from third parties ( Personal Data ) for the exclusive purpose of managing and administering the Plan and complying with applicable laws, regulations and Community legislation.  You also understand that providing the Company with Personal Data is mandatory for compliance with laws and is necessary for the performance of the Plan and that your denial to provide Personal Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect your ability to participate in the Plan.  You understand that Personal Data will not be publicized, but it may be accessible by the Employer as the privacy representative of the Company and within the Employer s organization by its internal and external personnel in charge of processing, and by Fidelity or any other data processor appointed by the Company.  The updated list of processors and of the subjects to which Data are communicated will remain available upon request from the Employer.  Furthermore, Personal Data may be transferred to banks, other financial institutions or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan.  You understand that Personal Data may also be transferred to the independent  
    Addendum-  9 

registered public accounting firm engaged by the Company, and also to the legitimate addressees under applicable laws.  You further understand that the Company and its subsidiaries will transfer Personal Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of your participation in the Plan, and that the Company and its subsidiaries may each further transfer Personal Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer of Personal Data to Fidelity or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any Shares acquired under the Plan or any proceeds from the sale of such Shares.  Such recipients may receive, possess, use, retain and transfer Personal Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.  You understand that these recipients may be acting as controllers, processors or persons in charge of processing, as the case may be, according to applicable privacy laws, and that they may be located in or outside the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere, in countries that do not provide an adequate level of data protection as intended under Italian privacy law.   
  Should the Company exercise its discretion in suspending all necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan, it will delete Personal Data as soon as it has accomplished all the necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan. 
  You understand that Personal Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Personal Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003. 
  The processing activity, including communication, the transfer of Personal Data abroad, including outside of the European Economic Area, as specified herein and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require your consent thereto as the processing is necessary to performance of law and contractual obligations related to implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  You understand that, pursuant to section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, you have the right at any moment to, including, but not limited to, obtain confirmation that Personal Data exists or not, access, verify its contents, origin and accuracy, delete, update, integrate, correct, block or stop, for legitimate reason, the Personal Data processing.  To exercise privacy rights, you should contact the Employer. Furthermore, you are aware that Personal Data will not be used for direct marketing purposes.  In addition, Personal Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting your human resources department. 
  Plan Document Acknowledgment.    By accepting the Performance Share Units, you acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan, reviewed the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum. 
  In addition, you further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and expressly approve without limitation the following clauses in the Agreement:  Section 9 (Responsibility for Taxes); Section 13 (Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and Performance Share Units); Section 14 (No Advice Regarding Grant); Section 15 (Right to Continued Employment); Section 17 (Deemed Acceptance); Section 19 (Severability and Validity); Section 20 (Governing Law, Jurisdiction and Venue); Section 22 (Data Privacy, as replaced by the above provision in this Addendum); Section 23 (Electronic Delivery and Acceptance); Section 24 (Insider Trading/Market Abuse Laws); Section 25 (Language); Section 26 (Compliance with Laws and Regulations); Section 27 (Entire Agreement and No Oral Modification or Waiver); Section 28 (Addendum); Section 29 (Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Requirements and Exchange Controls); and Section 30 (Imposition of Other Requirements). 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you are an Italian resident who, at any time during the fiscal year, holds foreign financial assets (including cash and Shares) which may generate income taxable in Italy, you are required to report these assets on your annual tax return for the year during which the assets are held, or on a special form if no tax return is due.  These reporting obligations also apply if you are the beneficial owner of foreign financial assets under Italian money laundering provisions.  
    Addendum-  10 

Tax Information.    Italian residents may be subject to tax on the value of financial assets held outside of Italy.  The taxable amount will be the fair market value of the financial assets, assessed at the end of the calendar year. For the purposes of the market value assessment, the documentation issued by the Plan broker may be used.  If you are subject to this foreign financial assets tax, you will need to report the value of your financial assets held abroad in your annual tax return.  You are advised to consult your personal legal advisor for additional information about the foreign financial assets tax. 
  Japan 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you are a resident of Japan or a foreign national who has established permanent residency in Japan, you will be required to report details of any assets (including any Shares acquired under the Plan) held outside of Japan as of December 31st of each year, to the extent such assets have a total net fair market value exceeding  50,000,000. Such report will be due by March 15th of the following year.  You should consult with your personal tax advisor as to whether the reporting obligation applies to you and whether you will be required to report details of any outstanding Performance Share Units or Shares held by you in the report. 
  Korea 
  Exchange Control Information.    Korean residents who realize US$500,000 or more from the sale of Shares or receipt of dividends in a single transaction are required to repatriate the proceeds to Korea within three years of receipt.  
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You will be required to declare all foreign accounts (  i.e.  , non-Korean bank accounts, brokerage accounts, etc.) to the Korean tax authorities and file a report if the monthly balance of such accounts exceeds a certain limit (currently KRW 1 billion or an equivalent amount in foreign currency).  You should consult with your personal tax advisor on how to value foreign accounts for purposes of this reporting requirement and whether you are required to file a report with respect to such account. 
  Kuwait 
  Securities Law Notification.    This Plan does not constitute the marketing or offering of securities in Kuwait pursuant to Law No. 7 of 2010 (establishing the Capital Markets Authority) and its implementing regulations.  Offerings under the Plan are being made only to eligible employees of your Employer or the Company or any other subsidiary or affiliate of the Company. 
  Luxembourg 
  There are no country-specific provisions.  
  Mexico 
  Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgment.    By accepting this Award, you expressly recognize that the Company, with offices at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154, U.S.A., is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and that your participation in the Plan and acquisition of shares does not constitute an employment relationship between you and the Company since you are participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and your sole employer is Bristol-Myers Squibb Company in Mexico ( BMS-Mexico ), not the Company in the United States.  Based on the foregoing, you expressly recognize that the Plan and the benefits that you may derive from participation in the Plan do not establish any rights between you and your employer, BMS-Mexico, and do not form part of the employment conditions and/or benefits provided by BMS-Mexico and any modification of the Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of your employment. 
  You further understand that your participation in the Plan is as a result of a unilateral and discretionary decision of the Company; therefore, the Company reserves the absolute right to amend and/or discontinue your participation at any time without any liability to you. 
    Addendum-  11 

Finally, you hereby declare that you do not reserve to yourself any action or right to bring any claim against the Company for any compensation or damages regarding any provision of the Plan or the benefits derived under the Plan, and you therefore grant a full and broad release to the Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates, branches, representation offices, its shareholders, officers, agents or legal representatives with respect to any claim that may arise. 
  Pol tica Laboral y Reconocimiento/Aceptaci n.    Aceptando este Premio, el participante reconoce que la Compa  a, with offices at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154, U.S.A., es el  nico responsable de la administraci n del Plan y que la participaci n del Participante en el mismo y la adquisicion de acciones no constituye de ninguna manera una relaci n laboral entre el Participante y la Compa  a, toda vez que la participaci n del participante en el Plan deriva  nicamente de una relaci n comercial con la Compa  a, reconociendo expresamente que el  nico empleador del participante lo es Bristol-Myers Squibb Company en Mexico ( BMS-Mexico ), no es la Compa  a en los Estados Unidos.  Derivado de lo anterior, el participante expresamente reconoce que el Plan y los beneficios que pudieran derivar del mismo no establecen ning n derecho entre el participante y su empleador, BMS-M xico, y no forman parte de las condiciones laborales y/o prestaciones otorgadas por BMS-M xico, y expresamente el participante reconoce que cualquier modificaci n el Plan o la terminaci n del mismo de manera alguna podr  ser interpretada como una modificaci n de los condiciones de trabajo del participante. 
  Asimismo, el participante entiende que su participaci n en el Plan es resultado de la decisi n unilateral y discrecional de la Compa  a, por lo tanto, la Compa  a.  Se reserva el derecho absoluto para modificar y/o terminar la participaci n del participante en cualquier momento, sin ninguna responsabilidad para el participante. 
  Finalmente, el participante manifiesta que no se reserva ninguna acci n o derecho que origine una demanda en contra de la Compa  a, por cualquier compensaci n o da o en relaci n con cualquier disposici n del Plan o de los beneficios derivados del mismo, y en consecuencia el participante otorga un amplio y total finiquito a la Compa  a, sus entidades relacionadas, afiliadas, sucursales, oficinas de representaci n, sus accionistas, directores, agentes y representantes legales con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera surgir. 
  Netherlands 
  Securities Law Information.   Attention!  This investment falls outside AFM supervision.  No prospectus required for this activity. 
  Norway 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Oman 
  Securities Law Notification.    This Plan does not constitute the marketing or offering of securities in Oman and consequently has not been registered or approved by the Central Bank of Oman, the Omani Ministry of Commerce and Industry, the Omani Capital Market Authority or any other authority in the Sultanate of Oman.  Offerings under the Plan are being made only to eligible employees of your Employer or the Company or any other subsidiary, affiliate or joint venture of the Company. 
  Peru 
  Securities Law Information.    The grant of Performance Share Units is considered a private offering in Peru; therefore, it is not subject to registration. 
  Labor Law Acknowledgement.    The following provision supplements Section 13 of the Agreement: 
  In accepting the Award of Performance Share Units pursuant to this Agreement, you acknowledge that the Performance Share Units are being granted   ex gratia   to you with the purpose of rewarding you. 
    Addendum-  12 

Poland 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Polish residents holding foreign securities (including Shares) and maintaining accounts abroad must report information to the National Bank of Poland.  Specifically, if the aggregate value of shares and cash held in such foreign accounts exceeds PLN 7 million, Polish residents must file reports on the transactions and balances of the accounts on a quarterly basis on special forms that are available on the website of the National Bank of Poland.   
  Exchange Control Information.    Polish residents are required to transfer funds (  i.e.  , in connection with the sale of Shares) through a bank account in Poland if the transferred amount in any single transaction exceeds a specified threshold (currently  15,000).  If you are a Polish resident, you must also retain all documents connected with any foreign exchange transactions you engage in for a period of five years, as measured from the end of the year in which such transaction occurred.   
  You should consult with your personal legal advisor to determine what you must do to fulfill any applicable reporting/exchange control duties. 
  Portugal 
  Language Consent.    You hereby expressly declare that you have full knowledge of the English language and have read, understood and fully accepted and agreed with the terms and conditions established in the Plan and the Agreement. 
  Conhecimento da Lingua.  Voc  expressamente declara ter pleno conhecimento do idioma ingl s e ter lido, entendido e totalmente aceito e concordou com os termos e condi  es estabelecidas no plano e no acordo. 
  Puerto Rico 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Romania 
  Exchange Control Information.    Any transfer of funds exceeding  15,000 (whether via one transaction or several transactions that appear to be linked to each other) must be reported to the National Office for Prevention and Control of Money Laundering on specific forms by the relevant bank or financial institution.  If you deposit the proceeds from the sale of your Shares in a bank account in Romania, you may have to provide the Romanian bank through which the operations are effected with appropriate documentation regarding the receipt of the income.  You should consult with a personal legal advisor to determine whether you will be required to submit such documentation to the Romanian bank. 
  Russia 
  Exchange Control Information.    You acknowledge that you must repatriate the proceeds from the sale of Shares within a reasonably short time of receipt.  Such amounts must be initially credited to you through a foreign currency account opened in your name at an authorized bank in Russia.  After the funds are initially received in Russia, they may be further remitted to foreign banks subject to the following limitations:  (i) the foreign account may be opened only for individuals; (ii) the foreign account may not be used for business activities; and (iii) you must give notice to the Russian tax authorities about the opening/closing of each foreign account within one month of the account opening/closing.  Cash dividends (but not dividend equivalents) and cash income received from the transfer of funds and/or Shares into the fiduciary/trust management of a non-resident do not need to be remitted to your bank account in Russia but instead can be remitted directly to a foreign individual bank account (in Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ( OECD ) and Financial Action Task Force ( FATF ) countries).  As from January 1, 2018, cash proceeds from the sale of Shares listed on the Russian stock exchange or a foreign exchange on the legally approved list, currently including the New York Stock Exchange, also can be paid directly to your foreign bank account opened with a bank located in an OECD or FATF country.  
  You should consult your personal advisor before selling any Shares acquired under the Plan and remitting any sale proceeds to Russia, as significant penalties may apply in the case of non-compliance with exchange control requirement and exchange control requirements are subject to change at any time, often without notice. 
    Addendum-  13 

Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Russian residents are required to notify the Russian tax authorities within one month of opening or closing a foreign bank account, or of changing any account details.  Effective as of January 1, 2015, Russian residents also will be required to annually file with the Russian tax authorities reports of the transactions in his or her foreign bank accounts.  According to draft regulations implementing this law, the first annual report on an approved form for the reporting year 2015 should be due on or before June 1, 2016.  The tax authorities can require any supporting documents related to transactions in your foreign bank account.  
  Securities Law Information.    These materials do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia nor do they constitute placement of the Shares in Russia.  Any Shares issued pursuant to the Performance Share Units shall be delivered to you through a brokerage account in the U.S.  You may hold Shares in your brokerage account in the U.S.; however, in no event will Shares issued to you and/or Share certificates or other instruments be delivered to you in Russia.  The issuance of Shares pursuant to the Performance Share Units described herein has not and will not be registered in Russia and hence, the Shares described herein may not be admitted or used for offering, placement or public circulation in Russia. 
  U.S. Transaction.    You are not permitted to make any public advertising or announcements regarding the Performance Share Units or Shares in Russia, or promote these shares to other Russian legal entities or individuals, and you are not permitted to sell or otherwise dispose of Shares directly to other Russian legal entities or individuals.  You are permitted to sell Shares only on the New York Stock Exchange and only through a U.S. broker. 
  Data Privacy Consent.    This section replaces Section 22 of the Agreement: 
  You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. 
  You understand that the Company, any subsidiary and/or the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all Performance Share Units or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor ( Data ), for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan. 
  You understand that Data may be transferred to Fidelity, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which assists in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  You understand that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipient's country (e.g. the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.  In this case, appropriate safeguards will be taken by the Company to ensure that your Data is processed with an adequate level of protection and in compliance with applicable local laws and regulation (especially through contractual clauses like European Model Clauses for European countries).  You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the International Compensation and Benefits Group.  You authorize the Company, Fidelity and other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the Shares received upon vesting of the Performance Share Units may be deposited.  You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan.  You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case and without cost, by contacting in writing the International Compensation and Benefits Group.  Further, you understand that you are providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis.  If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you Performance Share Units or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards.  Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan.  For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact the International Compensation and Benefits Group. 
    Addendum-  14 

Labor Law Information.    You acknowledge that if you continue to hold Shares acquired under the Plan after an involuntary termination of your employment, you may not be eligible to receive unemployment benefits in Russia.  
  Anti-Corruption Information  .  Anti-corruption laws prohibit certain public servants, their spouses and their dependent children from owning any foreign source financial instruments (  e.g.  , shares of foreign companies such as the Company).  Accordingly, you should inform the Company if you are covered by these laws because you should not hold Shares acquired under the Plan.  
  Saudi Arabia 
  Securities Law Information.    This document may not be distributed in the Kingdom except to such persons as are permitted under the Offers of Securities Regulations issued by the Capital Market Authority.  
  The Capital Market Authority does not make any representation as to the accuracy or completeness of this document, and expressly disclaims any liability whatsoever for any loss arising from, or incurred in reliance upon, any part of this document.  Prospective purchasers of the securities offered hereby should conduct their own due diligence on the accuracy of the information relating to the securities.  If you do not understand the contents of this document you should consult an authorized financial advisor.  
  Singapore 
  Restrictions on Sale and Transferability  . You hereby agrees that any Shares acquired pursuant to the Performance Share Units will not be offered for sale in Singapore prior to the six-month anniversary of the Award Date, unless such sale or offer is made pursuant to the exemptions under Part XIII Division 1 Subdivision (4) (other than section 280) of the Securities and Futures Act (Chap. 289, 2006 Ed.) ( SFA ). 
  Securities Law Information.    The grant of Performance Share Units is being made in reliance of section 273(1)(f) of the SFA for which it is exempt from the prospectus and registration requirements under the SFA and is not made to you with a view to the Performance Share Units being subsequently offered for sale to any other party.  The Plan has not been lodged or registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore.   
  Chief Executive Officer and Director Notification Requirement.    If you are the Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) or a director, associate director or shadow director of a Singapore company, you are subject to certain notification requirements under the Singapore Companies Act.  Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Singapore company in writing when you receive an interest (e.g., Performance Share Units, Shares) in the Company or any related companies.  In addition, you must notify the Singapore company when you sell shares of the Company or any related company (including when you sell Shares acquired pursuant to your Performance Share Units).  These notifications must be made within two business days of acquiring or disposing of any interest in the Company or any related company.  In addition, a notification must be made of your interests in the Company or any related company within two business days of becoming the CEO or a director. 
  South Africa 
  Responsibility for Taxes.    The following provision supplements Section 9 (  Responsibility for Taxes  ) of this Agreement: 
  You are required to immediately notify the Employer of the amount of any gain realized at vesting of the Performance Share Units.  If you fail to advise the Employer of such gain, you may be liable for a fine. 
  Exchange Control Information.    You are solely responsible for complying with applicable South African exchange control regulations, and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from failure to comply with applicable laws.  In particular, if you are a resident for exchange control purposes, you are required to obtain approval from the South African Reserve Bank for payments (including payment of proceeds from the sale of Shares) that you receive into accounts based outside of South Africa (  e.g.  , a U.S. brokerage account).  Because the exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your legal advisor prior to the acquisition or sale of Shares under the Plan to ensure compliance with current regulations.  
    Addendum-  15 

Spain 
  Exchange Control Information.    If you acquire Shares issued pursuant to the Performance Share Units and wish to import the ownership title of such shares (  i.e.  , share certificates) into Spain, you must declare the importation of such securities to the Spanish   Direccion General de Pol tica Comercial y de Inversiones Extranjeras   (the  DGPCIE ).  Generally, the declaration must be made in January for Shares acquired or sold during (or owned as of December 31 of) the prior year; however, if the value of shares acquired or sold exceeds the applicable threshold (currently  1,502,530) (or you hold 10% or more of the share capital of the Company or such other amount that would entitle you to join the Company s board of directors), the declaration must be filed within one month of the acquisition or sale, as applicable. In addition, you also must file a declaration of ownership of foreign securities with the Directorate of Foreign Transactions each January.  
  When receiving foreign currency payments derived pursuant to the Performance Share Units (e.g., proceeds from the sale of Shares), you must inform the financial institution receiving the payment of the basis upon which such payment is made if the payment exceeds  50,000.  Upon request, you will need to provide the institution with the following information: your name, address, and fiscal identification number; the name and corporate domicile of the Company; the amount of the payment; the currency used; the country of origin; the reasons for the payment; and any additional information required. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You are required to electronically declare to the Bank of Spain any security accounts (including brokerage accounts held abroad), as well as the security (including Shares acquired at vesting of Performance Share Units) held in such accounts and any transactions carried out with non-residents if the value of the transactions for all such accounts during the prior year for the balances in such accounts as of December 31 of the prior year exceeds  1,000,000.  If neither the total balances nor total transactions with non-residents during the relevant period exceed  50,000,000 a summarized form declaration may be used.  More frequent reporting is required if such transaction value or account balance exceeds  100,000,000.  
  In addition, to the extent you hold Shares and/or have bank accounts outside of Spain with a value in excess of  50,000 (for each type of asset) as of December 31, you will be required to report information on such assets on your tax return for such year.  After such Shares and/or accounts are initially reported, the reporting obligation will apply for subsequent years only if the value or any previously reported Shares or accounts increases by more than  20,000 as of each subsequent December 31.   
  Labor Law Acknowledgment.    This provision supplements Sections 6 and 13 of the Agreement: 
  By accepting the Performance Share Units, you consent to participation in the Plan and acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan document. 
  You understand and agree that, as a condition of the grant of the Performance Share Units, except as provided for in Section 2 of the Agreement, your termination of employment for any reason (including for the reasons listed below) will automatically result in the forfeiture of any Performance Share Units that have not vested on the date of your termination.  
  In particular, you understand and agree that, unless otherwise provided in the Agreement, the Performance Share Units will be forfeited without entitlement to the underlying Shares or to any amount as indemnification in the event of a termination of your employment prior to vesting by reason of, including, but not limited to: resignation, disciplinary dismissal adjudged to be with cause, disciplinary dismissal adjudged or recognized to be without good cause (  i.e.  , subject to a  despido improcedente ), individual or collective layoff on objective grounds, whether adjudged to be with cause or adjudged or recognized to be without cause, material modification of the terms of employment under Article 41 of the Workers  Statute, relocation under Article 40 of the Workers  Statute, Article 50 of the Workers  Statute, unilateral withdrawal by the Employer, and under Article 10.3 of Royal Decree 1382/1985. 
  Furthermore, you understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and discretionally decided to grant Performance Share Units under the Plan to individuals who may be employees of the Company or a subsidiary.  The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or any subsidiary on an ongoing basis, other than as expressly set forth in the Agreement.  Consequently, you understand that the Performance Share Units are granted on the assumption and condition that the Performance Share Units and the Shares underlying the Performance Share Units shall not become a part of any employment or service contract (either with the Company, the Employer or any subsidiary) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any  
    Addendum-  16 

purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever.  In addition, you understand that the Performance Share Units would not be granted to you but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, you acknowledge and freely accept that, should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then any award of Performance Share Units shall be null and void. 
  Securities Law Information.    The Performance Share Units and the Shares described in the Agreement and this Addendum do not qualify under Spanish regulations as securities.  No  offer of securities to the public,  as defined under Spanish law, has taken place or will take place in the Spanish territory.  The Agreement (including this Addendum) has not been nor will it be registered with the   Comisi n Nacional del Mercado de Valores  , and does not constitute a public offering prospectus. 
  Sweden 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Switzerland 
  Securities Law Information.    The Performance Share Units are not intended to be publicly offered in or from Switzerland.  Because the offer of Performance Share Units is considered a private offering, it is not subject to registration in Switzerland.  Neither this document nor any other materials relating to the Performance Share Units constitutes a prospectus as such term is understood pursuant to article 652a of the Swiss Code of Obligations, and neither this document nor any other materials relating to the Performance Share Units may be publicly distributed nor otherwise made publicly available in Switzerland. 
  Taiwan 
  Securities Law Information.    The offer of participation in the Plan is available only for employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.  The offer of participation in the Plan is not a public offer of securities by a Taiwanese company. 
  Exchange Control Information.    You may remit foreign currency (including proceeds from the sale of Shares) into or out of Taiwan up to US$5,000,000 per year without special permission.  If the transaction amount is TWD500,000 or more in a single transaction, you must submit a Foreign Exchange Transaction Form to the remitting bank and provide supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank. 
  Thailand 
  Exchange Control Information.    If the proceeds from the sale of Shares or receipt of dividends are equal to or greater than US$50,000 or more in a single transaction, you must repatriate the proceeds to Thailand immediately upon receipt and convert the funds to Thai Baht or deposit the proceeds in a foreign currency deposit account maintained by a bank in Thailand within 360 days of remitting the proceeds to Thailand. In addition you must report the inward remittance to the Bank of Thailand on a foreign exchange transaction form.  If you fail to comply with these obligations, you may be subject to penalties assessed by the Bank of Thailand.  Because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your personal advisor before selling Shares to ensure compliance with current regulations.  You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Thailand, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable laws. 
  Tunisia 
  Securities Law Information.    All proceeds from the sale of Shares or the receipt of dividends must be repatriated to Tunisia.  You should consult your personal advisor before taking action with respect to remittance of proceeds into Tunisia.  You   may   be required to obtain prior authorization from the Central Bank of Tunisia ("CBT")  for the acquisition of Shares under the Plan.  Because you do not pay anything for the Performance Share Units or the underlying Shares, the application of this requirement to the Performance Share Units is unclear.  For this reason, you should consult your personal legal advisor prior to vesting and settlement or, at the latest, prior to repatriation of any proceeds back to Tunisia at which time you may also be able to apply for any necessary authorization from the CBT.  You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Tunisia.  In addition, if you hold assets abroad in excess of a certain amount, you must report the assets to the CBT. 
    Addendum-  17 

Turkey 
  Securities Law Information.    Under Turkish law, you are not permitted to sell Shares acquired under the Plan in Turkey.  The Shares are currently traded on the New York Stock Exchange, which is located outside of Turkey, under the ticker symbol  BMY  and the Shares may be sold through this exchange.  
  Exchange Control Information.    In certain circumstances, Turkish residents are permitted to sell shares traded on a non-Turkish stock exchange only through a financial intermediary licensed in Turkey and should be reported to the Turkish Capital Markets Board.  Therefore, you may be required to appoint a Turkish broker to assist with the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan.  You should consult your personal legal advisor before selling any Shares acquired under the Plan to confirm the applicability of this requirement.  
  United Arab Emirates 
  Securities Law Information.    The Plan is only being offered to qualified employees and is in the nature of providing equity incentives to employees of the Company or its subsidiary or affiliate in the UAE.  Any documents related to the Plan, including the Plan, Plan prospectus and other grant documents ( Plan Documents ), are intended for distribution only to such employees and must not be delivered to, or relied on by, any other person.  Prospective purchasers of the securities offered should conduct their own due diligence on the securities. If you do not understand the contents of the Plan Documents, you should consult an authorized financial adviser. 
  The Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority has no responsibility for reviewing or verifying any Plan Documents nor taken steps to verify the information set out in them, and thus, are not responsible for such documents. 
  The securities to which this summary relates may be illiquid and/or subject to restrictions on their resale. Prospective purchasers of the securities offered should conduct their own due diligence on the securities. 
  United Kingdom 
  Responsibility for Taxes.    This provision supplements Section 9 of the Agreement:   
  You agree that, if you do not pay or the Employer or the Company does not withhold from you the full amount of income tax due in connection with the Performance Share Units within 90 days after the end of the U.K. year in which the taxable event occurs, or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (the  Due Date ), then the amount of income tax that should have been withheld shall constitute a loan owed by you to the Employer, effective or the Due Date.  You agree that the loan will bear interest at Her Majesty s Revenue   Customs  ( HMRC ) official rate and will be immediately due and repayable by you, and the Company and/or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to in Section 9 of the Agreement. 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are a director or executive officer (as within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), the terms of the immediately foregoing provision will not apply.  In the event that you are a director or executive officer and the income tax that is due is not collected from or paid by you by the Due Date, the amount of any uncollected income tax may constitute a benefit to you on which additional income tax and national insurance contributions may be payable.  You may be responsible for reporting and paying any income tax due on this additional benefit directly to the HMRC under the self-assessment regime and for reimbursing the Company or the Employer (as appropriate) for the value of any employee national insurance contributions due on this additional benefit, which the Company or the Employer may recover from you by any of the means referred to in Section 9 of the Agreement.  
    Addendum-  18 

Venezuela 
  Securities Law Information.    The Performance Share Units granted under the Plan and the Shares issued under the Plan are offered as a personal, private, exclusive transaction and are not subject to Venezuelan securities regulations. 
  Exchange Control Information.    Exchange control restrictions may limit the ability to remit funds out of Venezuela in order to receive Shares upon vesting of the Performance Share Units, or remit funds into Venezuela following the sale of Shares acquired upon vesting of the Performance Share Units.  The Company reserves the right to restrict settlement of the Performance Share Units or to amend or cancel the Performance Share Units at any time in order to comply with applicable exchange control laws in Venezuela.  Any Shares acquired under the Plan are intended to be an investment rather than for the resale and conversion of the shares into foreign currency.  You are responsible for complying with exchange control laws in Venezuela and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable laws.  Because exchange control laws and regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult with your personal legal advisor before accepting the Performance Share Units and before selling any Shares acquired upon vesting of the Performance Share Units to ensure compliance with current regulations. 
    
    Addendum-  19 

</EX-10.Y>

<EX-10.Z>
 3
 exhibit10zrestrictedstocku.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.Z

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 10z  . 
  
  RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AGREEMENT 
  UNDER THE BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY 
  2012 STOCK AWARD AND INCENTIVE PLAN 
    
  BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), has granted to you the Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs ) specified in the Grant Summary located on the Stock Plan Administrator's website, which is incorporated into this Restricted Stock Units Agreement (the  Agreement ) and deemed to be a part hereof.  The RSUs have been granted to you under Section 6(e) of the 2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), on the terms and conditions specified in the Grant Summary and this Agreement.   Capitalized terms used in this Agreement that are not specifically defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.  
    
  1.      RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARD 
    
  The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the  Committee ) has granted to you as of the Award Date an Award of RSUs as designated herein subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan.  Each RSU shall represent the conditional right to receive, upon settlement of the RSU, one share of Bristol-Myers Squibb Common Stock ( Common Stock ) or, at the discretion of the Company, the cash equivalent thereof (subject to any tax withholding as described in Section 4).  The purpose of such Award is to motivate and retain you as an employee of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, to encourage you to continue to give your best efforts for the Company s future success, and to increase your proprietary interest in the Company.  Except as may be required by law, you are not required to make any payment (other than payments for taxes pursuant to Section 4 hereof) or provide any consideration other than the rendering of future services to the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. 
    
  2.      RESTRICTIONS, FORFEITURES, AND SETTLEMENT 
    
  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2, each RSU shall be subject to the restrictions and conditions set forth herein during the period from the Award Date until the date such RSU has become vested and non-forfeitable     such that there are no longer any RSUs that may become potentially vested and non-forfeitable (the  Restricted Period ).  Vesting of the RSUs is conditioned upon you remaining continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company from the Award Date until the relevant vesting date, subject to the provisions of this Section 2.  Assuming satisfaction of such employment conditions, the RSUs will become vested and non-forfeitable as follows:  one-third on the third anniversary of the Award Date; an additional one-third on the fourth anniversary of the Award Date; and the final one-third on the fifth anniversary     of the Award Date (each, a  Vesting Date ). 
    
           (a) 
    Nontransferability  .  During the Restricted Period and any further period prior to settlement of your RSUs, you may not sell, transfer, pledge or assign any of the RSUs or your rights relating thereto.     If you attempt to assign your rights under this Agreement in violation of the provisions herein, the Company s obligation to settle RSUs or otherwise make payments shall terminate. 
       
           (b) 
    Time of Settlement  .  RSUs shall be settled promptly upon expiration of the Restricted Period without forfeiture of the RSUs (  i.e  ., upon vesting), but in any event within 60 days after expiration of the Restricted Period, by delivery of one share of Common Stock for each RSU being settled, or, at the discretion of the Company, the cash equivalent thereof; provided, however, that settlement of an RSU shall be subject to Plan Section 11(k), including if applicable the six-month delay rule in Plan Sections 11(k)(i)(C)(2) and 11(k)(i)(G); provided further, that no dividend or dividend equivalents will be paid, accrued or accumulated in respect of the period during which settlement was delayed.  (  Note: This rule may apply to any portion of the RSUs that vest after the time you become Retirement eligible under the Plan, and could apply in other cases as well  ).  Settlement of RSUs which directly or indirectly result from adjustments to RSUs shall occur at the time of settlement of, and subject to the restrictions and conditions that apply to, the granted RSUs. Settlement of cash amounts which directly or indirectly result from adjustments to RSUs shall be included as part of your regular payroll payment as soon as administratively practicable after the settlement date for the underlying RSUs, and subject to the restrictions and conditions that apply to, the granted RSUs.  Until shares are delivered to you in settlement of RSUs, you shall have none of the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to the shares issuable in settlement of the RSUs, including the right to vote the shares and receive actual dividends and other distributions on the underlying shares of Common Stock.  Shares of stock issuable in settlement of RSUs shall be delivered to you upon settlement in certificated form or in such other manner as the Company may reasonably determine.  At that time, you will have all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company. 
       
    1 

(c) 
    Retirement and Death  .  In the event of your Retirement (as that term is defined in the Plan; however, if you attain age 65 before Retirement, 100% of your RSUs held for at least one year will have vested prior to Retirement) or your death while employed by the Company prior to the end of the Restricted Period, you, or your estate, shall be deemed vested and entitled to settlement of (  i.e  ., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) a proportionate number of the total number of RSUs granted (taking into account RSUs previously vested), provided that you have been continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for at least one year following the Award Date and your employment has not been terminated by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.  If you are only eligible for Retirement pursuant to Plan Section 2(x)(iii), and you are employed in the United States or Puerto Rico at the time of your Retirement, you shall be entitled to the pro rata vesting described in this Section 2(c) only if you execute and do not revoke a release in favor of the Company and its predecessors, successors, affiliates, subsidiaries, directors and employees in a form satisfactory to the Company; if you fail to execute or revoke the release, or your release fails to become effective and irrevocable within 60 days of the date your employment terminates, you shall forfeit any RSUs that are unvested as of the date your employment terminates.  The formula for determining the proportionate number of your RSUs to become vested and non-forfeitable upon your Retirement or death is available by request from the Office of the Corporate Secretary at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154.  RSUs that become vested and nonforfeitable under this Section 2(c) shall be distributed in accordance with Section 2(b) (  i.e.  , within 60 days of the date of your death or Retirement).  In the event of your becoming vested hereunder on account of death, or in the event of your death subsequent to your Retirement hereunder and prior to the delivery of shares in settlement of RSUs (not previously forfeited), shares in settlement of your RSUs shall be delivered to your estate, upon presentation to the Committee of letters testamentary or other documentation satisfactory to the Committee, and your estate shall succeed to any other rights provided hereunder in the event of your death. 
       
           (d) 
    Termination not for Misconduct/Detrimental Conduct  .  In the event your employment is terminated by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for reasons other than misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, and you are not eligible for Retirement, you shall be entitled to settlement of (  i.e  ., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) a proportionate number of the total number of RSUs granted (taking into account RSUs previously vested), provided that you have been continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for at least one year following the Award Date. If you are not eligible for Retirement, and you are employed in the United States or Puerto Rico at the time of your termination, you shall be entitled to the pro rata vesting described in this Section 2(d) only if you execute and do not revoke a release in favor of the Company and its predecessors, successors, affiliates, subsidiaries, directors and employees in a form satisfactory to the Company; if you fail to execute or revoke the release, or your release fails to become effective and irrevocable within 60 days of the date your employment terminates, you shall forfeit any RSUs that are unvested as of the date your employment terminates.  The formula for determining the proportionate number of RSUs you are entitled to under this Section 2(d) is available by request from the Office of the Corporate Secretary at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154. 
       
           (e) 
    Disability  .  In the event you become Disabled (as that term is defined below), for the period during which you continue to be deemed to be employed by the Company or a subsidiary (  i.e  ., the period during which you receive Disability benefits), you will not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of the RSUs.  However, no period of continued Disability shall continue beyond 29 months for purposes of the RSUs, at which time you will have considered to have separated from service in accordance with applicable laws as more fully provided for herein. Upon the termination of your receipt of Disability benefits, (i) you will not be deemed to have terminated employment if you return to employment status, and (ii) if you do not return to employment status or are considered to have separated from service as noted above, you will be deemed to have terminated employment at the date of cessation of payments to you under all disability pay plans of the Company and its subsidiaries (unless you are on an approved leave of absence per Section (i) herein), with such termination treated for purposes of the RSUs as a Retirement or death (as detailed in Section 2(c) herein), or voluntary termination (as detailed in Section 2(g) herein) based on your circumstances at the time of such termination.  For purposes of this Agreement,  Disability  or  Disabled  shall mean qualifying for and receiving payments under a disability plan of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate either in the United States or in a jurisdiction outside of the United States, and in jurisdictions outside of the United States shall also include qualifying for and receiving payments under a mandatory or universal disability plan or program managed or maintained by the government.  
       
           (f) 
    Qualifying Termination Following Change in Control  .  In the event your employment is terminated by reason of a Qualifying Termination during the Protected Period following a Change in Control, the Restricted Period and all remaining restrictions shall expire and the RSUs shall be deemed fully vested. 
       
    2 

(g) 
    Other Termination of Employment  .   In the event of your voluntary termination (subject to Section 2(c)), or termination by the Company or a subsidiary for misconduct or other conduct deemed by the Company to be detrimental to the interests of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, you shall forfeit all unvested RSUs on the date of termination. 
       
           (h) 
    Other Terms  .  
       
           (i) 
    In the event that you fail promptly to pay or make satisfactory arrangements as to the Tax-Related Items as provided in Section 4, all RSUs subject to restriction shall be forfeited by you and shall be deemed to be reacquired by the Company.  
       
           (ii) 
    You may, at any time prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, waive all rights with respect to all or some of the RSUs by delivering to the Company a written notice of such waiver. 
       
           (iii) 
    Termination of employment includes any event if immediately thereafter you are no longer an employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, subject to Section 2(i) hereof.  References in this Section 2 to employment by the Company include employment by a subsidiary of the Company.  Termination of employment means an event after which you are no longer employed by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company.  Such an event could include the disposition of a subsidiary or business unit by the Company or a subsidiary. 
       
           (iv) 
    Upon any termination of your employment, any RSUs as to which the Restricted Period has not expired at or before such termination shall be forfeited, subject to Sections 2(c)-(f) hereof.  Other provisions of this Agreement notwithstanding, in no event will an RSU that has been forfeited thereafter vest or be settled.     
       
           (v) 
    In the event of termination of your employment or other service relationship (for any reason whatsoever, whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or determined by the Company, your right to vest in the RSUs under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively providing services and will not be extended by any notice period (  e.g  ., active services would not include any contractual notice period or any period of "garden leave" or similar period mandated under employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing services for purposes of your RSUs (including whether you may still be considered to be providing services while on a leave of absence). 
       
           (vi) 
    You agree that the Company may recover any incentive-based compensation received by you under this Agreement if such recovery is pursuant to a clawback or recoupment policy approved by the Committee, even if approved subsequent to the date of this Agreement. 
              (i) 
    The following events shall not be deemed a termination of employment: 
       
           (i) 
    A transfer of you from the Company to a subsidiary, or vice versa, or from one subsidiary to another; and  
       
           (ii) 
    A leave of absence from which you return to active service for any purpose approved by the Company or a subsidiary in writing.  
       
  Any failure to return to active service with the Company or a subsidiary at the end of an approved leave of absence as described herein shall be deemed a voluntary termination of employment effective on the date the approved leave of absence ends, subject to applicable law and any RSUs that are unvested as of the date your employment terminates shall be forfeited subject to Section 2(c).  During a leave of absence as provided for in (ii) above, although you will be considered to have been continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary and not to have had a termination of employment under this Section 2, the Committee may specify that such leave of absence period approved for your personal reasons (and provided for by any applicable law) shall not be counted in determining the period of employment for purposes of the vesting of the RSUs.  In such case, the Vesting Dates for unvested RSUs shall be extended by the length of any such leave of absence.  
    
           (j) 
    As more fully provided for in the Plan, notwithstanding any provision herein, in any Award or in the Plan to the contrary, the terms of any Award shall be limited to those terms permitted under Code Section 409A including all applicable regulations and administrative guidance thereunder ( Section 409A ), and any terms not permitted under Section 409A shall be automatically modified and limited to the extent necessary to conform with Section 409A, but only to the extent such modification or limitation is permitted under Section 409A. 
       3 

3. 
    NON-COMPETITION AND NON-SOLICITATION AGREEMENT AND COMPANY RIGHT TO INJUNCTIVE RELIEF, DAMAGES, RECISSION, FORFEITURE AND OTHER REMEDIES    
       
  You acknowledge that your continued employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company and/or the grant of RSUs pursuant to this Agreement is sufficient consideration for this Agreement, including, without limitation, all applicable restrictions imposed on you by this Section 3. 
    
           (a) 
    Confidentiality Obligations and Agreement  . By accepting this Award Agreement, you agree and/or reaffirm the terms of all agreements related to treatment of Confidential Information that you signed at the inception of or during your employment, the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference.  This includes, but is not limited to, use or disclosure of any BMS Confidential Information, Proprietary Information, or Trade Secrets to third parties.  Confidential   Information  , Proprietary Information, and Trade secrets include, but are not limited to, any information gained in the course of your employment with the Company that is marked as confidential or could reasonably be expected to harm the Company if disclosed to third parties, including without limitation, any information that could reasonably be expected to aid a competitor or potential competitor in making inferences regarding the nature of the Company s business activities, where such inferences could reasonably be expected to allow such competitor to compete more effectively with the Company.   You agree that you will not remove or disclose Company Confidential Information, Proprietary Information or Trade Secrets.  Unauthorized removal includes forwarding or downloading confidential information to personal email or other electronic media and/or copying the information to personal unencrypted thumb drives, cloud storage or drop box.    Immediately upon termination of your employment for any reason, you will return to the Company all of the Company s confidential and other business materials that you have or that are in your possession or control and all copies thereof, including all tangible embodiments thereof, whether in hard copy or electronic format and you shall not retain any versions thereof on any personal computer or any other media (  e.g.  , flash drives, thumb drives, external hard drives and the like). Nothing in this paragraph or Agreement limits or prohibits your right to report potential violations of law , rules, or regulations to, or communicate with, cooperate with, testify before, or otherwise assist in an investigation or proceeding by, any government agency or entity, or engage in any other conduct that is required or protected by law or regulation, and you are not required to obtain the prior authorization of the Company to do so and are not required to notify the Company that you have done so.     
              (b) 
    Inventions  .  To the extent permitted by local law, you agree and/or reaffirm the terms of all agreements related to inventions that you signed at the inception of or during your employment, and agree to promptly disclose and assign to the Company all of your interest in any and all inventions, discoveries, improvements and business or marketing concepts related to the current or contemplated business or activities of the Company, and which are conceived or made by you, either alone or in conjunction with others, at any time or place during the period you are employed by the Company. Upon request of the Company, including after your termination, you agree to execute, at the Company s expense, any and all applications, assignments, or other documents which the Company shall determine necessary to apply for and obtain letters patent to protect the Company s interest in such inventions, discoveries, and improvements and to cooperate in good faith in any legal proceedings to protect the Company s intellectual property. 
              (c) 
    Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Related Covenants  .  By accepting this Agreement, you agree to the restrictive covenants outlined in this section unless expressly prohibited by local law or as follows:  The post-termination non-compete restrictions outlined in subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (v) of this Section 3(c) do not apply to employees who are, at the time of termination from employment by BMS, assigned to work for BMS resident full-time in the States of California or North Dakota, except that should said employee accept employment outside of California or North Dakota, all restrictions in Section 3(c), including, but not limited to, those pertaining to post-termination activities, shall be fully enforceable. There are no exemptions for any Award recipients (including employee residents of the States of California and North Dakota) regarding non-compete provisions while employed at the Company or from subparagraphs (iii), (iv) and (vi) of this Section 3(c) during the entire Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period. 
     Given the extent and nature of the confidential information that you have obtained or will obtain during the course of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, it would be inevitable or, at the least, substantially probable that such confidential information would be disclosed or utilized by you should you obtain employment from, or otherwise become associated with, an entity or person that is engaged in a business or enterprise that directly competes with the Company.  Even if not inevitable, it would be impossible or impracticable for the Company to monitor your strict compliance with your confidentiality obligations.  Consequently, you agree that you will not, directly or indirectly: 
           (i) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period (as defined below), own or have any financial interest in a Competitive Business (as defined below), except that nothing in this clause shall prevent you from owning one per cent or less of the outstanding securities of any entity whose securities are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange (including NASDAQ) or an equivalent foreign exchange; 
       4 

(ii) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, whether or not for compensation, either on your own behalf or as an employee, officer, agent, consultant, director, owner, partner, joint venturer, shareholder, investor, or in any other capacity, be actively connected with a Competitive Business or otherwise advise or assist a Competitive Business with regard to any product, investigational compound, technology, service, line of business, department or business unit that competes with any product, technology, service, line of business, department or business unit with which you worked or about which you became familiar as a result of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, after your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company terminates for any reason, you may be affiliated with a Competitive Business provided that your affiliation does not involve any product, investigational compound, technology or service, that competes with any product, investigational compound, technology or service with which you were involved within the last twelve months of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, including any product, investigational compound, technology or service which the Company is developing and of which you had knowledge, and you and the Competing Business provide the Company written assurances of this fact prior to your commencing such affiliation; 
       
           (iii) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, employ, solicit for employment, solicit, induce, encourage, or participate in soliciting, inducing or encouraging any Company employee who is employed by the Company or who was employed by the Company within the twelve months preceding the termination of your employment with the Company for any reason, to terminate or reduce his or her or its relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates, successors or assigns (the  Related Parties  
       
           (iv) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, solicit, induce, encourage, or appropriate or attempt to solicit, divert or appropriate, by use of Confidential Information or otherwise, any existing or prospective customer, vendor or supplier of the Company or any Related Parties to terminate, cancel or otherwise reduce its relationship with the Company or any Related Parties; 
       
           (v) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, contact, call upon or solicit any existing customer of the Company or its Related Parties, or prospective customer of the Company or its Related Parties, that you became aware of or was introduced to in the course of your duties for the Company or its Related Parties, or otherwise divert or take away from the Company or its Related Parties the business of any current or prospective customer of the Company or its Related Parties; or 
       
           (vi) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, engage in any activity that is harmful to the interests of the Company or its Related Parties, including, without limitation, any conduct during the term of your employment that violates the Company s Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics, securities trading policy and other policies.    
       
           (d) 
    Rescission, Forfeiture and Other Remedies  .  If the Company determines that you have violated any applicable provisions of Section 3(c) above during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, in addition to injunctive relief and damages, you agree and covenant that: 
       
           (i) 
    any unvested portion of the RSUs shall be immediately rescinded; 
       
           (ii) 
    you shall automatically forfeit any rights you may have with respect to the RSUs as of the date of such determination; 
       
           (iii) 
    if any part of the RSUs vests within the twelve-month period immediately preceding a violation of Section 3(c) above (or following the date of any such violation), upon the Company s demand, you shall immediately deliver to it a certificate or certificates for shares of the Company s Common Stock that you acquired upon settlement of such RSUs (or an equivalent number of other shares); and 
       
           (iv) 
    the foregoing remedies set forth in this Section 3(d) shall not be the Company s exclusive remedies.  The Company reserves all other rights and remedies available to it at law or in equity. 
       
           (e) 
    Definitions  .  For purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply: 
       
           (i) 
     Competitive Business  means any business that is engaged in or is about to become engaged in the development, production or sale of any product, process or service concerning the treatment of any disease, which product, process or service resembles or competes with any product, process or service that was sold by, or in development at, the Company or a subsidiary of the Company during your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. 
       
    5 

(ii) 
    Because of the global nature of the Company s business, it is agreed that the restrictions set forth above shall apply in the  Restricted Area,  defined as including without limitation the continent, country and the geographic regions where you worked in and were responsible for while employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, and any other geographic area (country, province, state, city or other political subdivision) in which the Company or a subsidiary of the Company is engaged in business and/or is otherwise selling products or services at the time you ceased working for the Company or a subsidiary of the Company;  
              (A) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines the foregoing geographic scope is unenforceable, the  Restricted Area  shall be defined as the continent, country and the geographic regions where you worked and were responsible for while employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company;   
              (B) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines that the foregoing geographic scope is unenforceable, the  Restricted Area  shall be defined as the country in which you worked; 
              (C) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines that the foregoing geographic scope is unenforceable, the  Restricted Area  shall be defined as the geographic regions that you serviced and were responsible for while employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. 
       
           (iii) 
    The  Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period  shall be the period during which Employee is employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company and   twelve (12) months   after the end of Employee s term of employment with and/or work for the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for any reason, (e.g., restriction applies regardless of the reason for termination and includes voluntary and involuntary termination) (hereinafter  Termination Date  
          
           (A) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines that such period is unenforceable, the  Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period  shall be the period of your employment and an additional   eleven (11) months   after your employment Termination Date with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for any reason; 
              (B) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines that such period is unenforceable, the  Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period  shall be the period of your employment and an additional   ten (10) months   after your employment Termination Date with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for any reason; 
              (C) 
    provided further, in the event that the Company or a subsidiary of the Company files an action to enforce rights arising out of this Agreement, the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period shall be extended for all periods of time in which you are determined by the Court or other authority to have been in violation of the provisions of Section 3(c). 
              (f) 
    Severability  . You acknowledge and agree that the period, scope and geographic areas of restriction imposed upon you by this Section 3 are fair and reasonable and are reasonably required for the protection of the Company.  In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions will not in any way be affected or impaired and this Agreement shall nevertheless continue to be valid and enforceable as though the invalid provisions were not part of this Agreement.  If the final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority declares that any term or provision hereof is invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the parties agree that the court making such determination shall have the power to reduce the scope, duration, area or applicability of the term or provision, to delete specific words or phrases, or to replace any invalid, illegal or unenforceable term or provision with a term or provision that is valid, legal and enforceable to the maximum extent permissible under law and that comes closest to expressing the intention of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable term or provision.  You acknowledge and agree that your covenants under this Agreement are ancillary to your employment relationship with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, but shall be independent of any other contractual relationship between you and the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.  Consequently, the existence of any claim or cause of action that you may have against the Company or a subsidiary of the Company shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement of this Agreement by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, nor an excuse for noncompliance with this Agreement. 
       
           (g) 
    Additional Remedies  .  You acknowledge and agree that any violation by you of this paragraph will cause irreparable harm to the Company and its Related Parties and the Company cannot be adequately compensated for such violation by damages.  Accordingly, if you violate or threaten to violate this Agreement, then, in addition to any other rights or remedies that the Company may have in law or in equity, the Company shall be entitled, without the posting of a bond or other security, to obtain an injunction to stop or prevent such violation, including but not limited to obtaining a temporary or preliminary injunction from a Delaware court pursuant to Section 1(a) of the Mutual Arbitration Agreement and Section 14 of this  
       6 

Agreement. You further agree that if the Company incurs legal fees or costs in enforcing this Agreement, you will reimburse the Company for such fees and costs. 
           (h) 
    Binding Obligations  .  These obligations shall be binding both upon you, your assigns, executors, administrators and legal representatives. At the inception of or during the course of your employment, you may have executed agreements that contain similar terms. Those agreements remain in full force and effect.  In the event that there is a conflict between the terms of those agreements and this Agreement, this Agreement will control. 
              (i) 
    Enforcement  .  The Company retains discretion regarding whether or not to enforce the terms of the covenants contained in this Section 3 and its decision not to do so in your instance or anyone s case shall not be considered a waiver of the Company s right to do so.  
              (j) 
    Duty to Notify  .  During your employment with the Company and for a period of 12 months after your termination of employment from the Company, you shall communicate your obligations under this Agreement to each subsequent employer.  In addition, you shall advise the Company of the name and address of your intended future employer, including the title of the position accepted with the subsequent employer.  While employed at the Company, you are required to provide this information immediately upon acceptance of a position with a new employer.  Once terminated from the Company, upon resignation from any subsequent employer.  The Company shall have the right to advise any subsequent employer of your obligations hereunder. 
     4.      RESPONSIBILITY FOR TAXES 
    
  You acknowledge that, regardless of any action taken by the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company, including your employer ( Employer ), the ultimate liability for all income tax (including federal, state, local and non-U.S. taxes), social security, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you or deemed by the Company or the Employer to be an appropriate charge to you even if legally applicable to the Company or the Employer ( Tax-Related Items ) is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer.  You further acknowledge that the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate and/or the Employer: (a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the RSUs, including the grant of the RSUs, the vesting of RSUs, the conversion of the RSUs into shares of Common Stock or the receipt of an equivalent cash payment, the subsequent sale of any shares of Common Stock acquired at settlement and the receipt of any dividends; and, (b) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the RSUs to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result.  Further, if you are subject to Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
    
  Prior to the relevant taxable event, you agree to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items.  In this regard, by your acceptance of the RSUs, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy their withholding obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: 
    
           (a) 
    withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer; or 
              (b) 
    withholding from proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired upon settlement of the RSUs either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent); or 
              (c) 
    withholding in shares of Common Stock to be issued upon settlement of the RSUs;  
       
  provided, however, if you are a Section 16 officer of the Company under the Exchange Act, then the Company will withhold shares of Common Stock upon the relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, unless the use of such withholding method is problematic under applicable tax or securities law or has materially adverse accounting consequences, in which case, the obligation for Tax-Related Items may be satisfied by one or a combination of methods (a) and (b) above. 
    
  Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates, in which case you will receive a refund of any over-withheld amount in cash and will have no entitlement to the Common Stock equivalent.  If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding in shares of Common Stock, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of shares of Common Stock subject to the vested RSUs, notwithstanding that a number of the shares of Common Stock are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items. 
    
    7 

Finally, you agree to pay to the Company or the Employer, including through withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer, any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the shares or the proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock, if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items. 
    
  Notwithstanding anything in this Section 4 to the contrary, to avoid a prohibited acceleration under Section 409A, if shares of Common Stock subject to RSUs will be sold on your behalf (or withheld) to satisfy any Tax-Related Items arising prior to the date of settlement of the RSUs, then to the extent that any portion of the RSUs that is considered nonqualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A, then the number of such shares sold on your behalf (or withheld) shall not exceed the number of shares that equals the liability for Tax-Related Items with respect to such shares. 
    
  5.      DIVIDENDS AND ADJUSTMENTS 
    
           (a) 
    Dividends or dividend equivalents are not paid, accrued or accumulated on RSUs during the Restricted Period, except as provided in Section 5(b). 
       
           (b) 
    The number of your RSUs and/or other related terms shall be appropriately adjusted, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of your rights with respect to RSUs, to reflect any changes in the outstanding shares of Common Stock resulting from any event referred to in Plan Section 11(c) or any other  equity restructuring  as defined in FASB ASC Topic 718. 
       
  6.      EFFECT ON OTHER BENEFITS 
    
  In no event shall the value, at any time, of the RSUs or any other payment under this Agreement be included as compensation or earnings for purposes of any other compensation, retirement, or benefit plan offered to employees of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company unless otherwise specifically provided for in such plan.  The RSUs and the underlying shares of Common Stock (or their cash equivalent), and the income and value of the same, are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes including, but not limited to, calculation of any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy or end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits, or similar payments. 
    
  7.      ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NATURE OF PLAN AND RSUs 
    
  In accepting the RSUs, you acknowledge, understand and agree that: 
    
           (a) 
    The Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, to the extent permitted by the Plan;  
       
           (b) 
    The Award of RSUs is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of RSUs, or benefits in lieu of RSUs even if RSUs have been awarded in the past;  
       
           (c) 
    All decisions with respect to future awards of RSUs or other awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company; 
       
           (d) 
    Your participation in the Plan is voluntary;  
       
           (e) 
    The RSUs and the Common Stock subject to the RSUs are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation;  
       
           (f) 
    Unless otherwise agreed with the Company, the RSUs and the shares of Common Stock subject to the RSUs, and the income and value of the same, are not granted as consideration for, or in connection with, the service you may provide as a director of a subsidiary or an affiliate of the Company; 
       
           (g) 
    The future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with certainty;  
       
           (h) 
    No claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the forfeiture of RSUs, resulting from termination of your employment or other service relationship with the Company, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), and in consideration of the grant of the RSUs to which you are otherwise not entitled, you irrevocably agree never to institute any claim against the Company, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or the Employer, waive your ability, if any, to bring such claim, and release the Company,  
       8 

any subsidiary or affiliate and/or the Employer from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by participating in the Plan, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agree to execute any and all documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claim; 
    
           (i) 
    Unless otherwise provided in the Plan or by the Company in its discretion, the RSUs and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have the RSUs or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the shares of the Company; and 
       
           (j) 
    The following provisions apply only if you are providing services outside the United States: (i) the Award and the shares of Common Stock subject to the RSUs are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose; and (ii) neither the Company, the Employer nor any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between your local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the RSUs or of any amounts due to you pursuant to the settlement of the RSUs or the subsequent sale of any shares of Common Stock acquired upon settlement. 
       
  8.      NO ADVICE REGARDING GRANT 
    
  The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your participation in the Plan or your acquisition or sale of the underlying shares of Common Stock.  You are hereby advised to consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan. 
    
  9.      RIGHT TO CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT 
    
  Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or any specific position or level of employment with the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or affect in any way the right of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company to terminate your employment without prior notice at any time for any reason or no reason. 
    
  10.      ADMINISTRATION; UNFUNDED OBLIGATIONS 
    
  The Committee shall have full authority and discretion, subject only to the express terms of the Plan, to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this Agreement, and all such Committee determinations shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate, you, and all interested parties.  Any provision for distribution in settlement of your RSUs and other obligations hereunder shall be by means of bookkeeping entries on the books of the Company and shall not create in you or any beneficiary any right to, or claim against any, specific assets of the Company, nor result in the creation of any trust or escrow account for you or any beneficiary.  You and any of your beneficiaries entitled to any settlement or distribution hereunder shall be a general creditor of the Company. 
    
  11.      DEEMED ACCEPTANCE     
    
  You are required to accept the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement prior to the first vest date in order for you to receive the Award granted to you hereunder.  If you wish to decline this Award, you must reject this Agreement prior to the first vest date.  For your benefit, if you have not rejected the Agreement prior to the first vest date, you will be deemed to have automatically accepted this Award and all the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.  Deemed acceptance will allow the shares to be released to you in a timely manner and once released, you waive any right to assert that you have not accepted the terms hereof. 
    
  12.      AMENDMENT TO PLAN 
    
  This Agreement shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, as amended from time to time, except that, subject to Sections 20, 22 and 24, and the provisions of the Addendum hereto, the Award which is the subject of this Agreement may not be materially adversely affected by any amendment or termination of the Plan approved after the Award Date without your written consent. 
    
  13.       SEVERABILITY AND VALIDITY 
    
  The various provisions of this Agreement are severable, and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.   
    
    9 

14.      GOVERNING LAW, JURISDICTION AND VENUE 
    
  This Agreement and Award grant shall be governed by the substantive laws (but not the choice of law rules) of the State of Delaware.  The forum in which disputes arising under this RSU grant and Agreement shall be decided depends on whether you are subject to the Mutual Arbitration Agreement.  
    
  (a)    If you are subject to the Mutual Arbitration Agreement, any dispute that arises under this RSU grant or Agreement shall be governed by the Mutual Arbitration Agreement.  Any application to a court under Section 1(a) of the Mutual Arbitration Agreement for temporary or preliminary injunctive relief in aid of arbitration or for the maintenance of the status quo pending arbitration shall exclusively be brought and conducted in the courts of Wilmington, Delaware, or the federal courts for the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, and no other courts where this RSU grant is made and/or performed.  The parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware for purposes of any such application for injunctive relief. 
    
  (b)    If you are not subject to the Mutual Arbitration Agreement, this Agreement and Award grant shall be governed by the substantive laws (but not the choice of law rules) of the State of Delaware.  For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises under this RSU grant or Agreement, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, agree that such litigation shall exclusively be conducted in the courts of Wilmington, Delaware, or the federal courts for the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, and no other courts where this RSU grant is made and/or performed. 
    
  15.      SUCCESSORS 
    
  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors, assigns, and heirs of the respective parties. 
    
  16.      DATA PRIVACY 
    
  You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. 
    
  You understand that the Company, any subsidiary and/or the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security number or other identification number (e.g., resident registration number), salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor ( Data ), for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan. 
    
  You understand that Data may be transferred to Fidelity, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which assists in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  You understand that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipient's country (e.g. the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.  In this case, appropriate safeguards will be taken by the Company to ensure that your Data is processed with an adequate level of protection and in compliance with applicable local laws and regulation (especially through contractual clauses like European Model Clauses for European countries).  You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative.  You authorize the Company, Fidelity and other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the shares of Common Stock received upon vesting of the RSUs may be deposited.  You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan.  You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting your local human resources representative.  Further, you understand that you are providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis.  If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you RSUs or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards.  Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan.  For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.  
    
    10 

17.      ELECTRONIC DELIVERY AND ACCEPTANCE 
    
  The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means.  You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic systems established and maintained by the Company or a third-party designated by the Company. 
    
  18.      INSIDER TRADING/MARKET ABUSE LAWS 
    
  You acknowledge that, depending on your country of residence, you may be subject to insider trading restrictions and/or market abuse laws, which may affect your ability to acquire or sell shares of Common Stock or rights to shares of Common Stock (  e.g  ., RSUs) under the Plan during such times as you are considered to have  inside information  regarding the Company (as defined by the laws in your country).  Any restrictions under these laws or regulations are separate from and in addition to any restrictions that may be imposed under any applicable Company insider trading policy.  You acknowledge that it is your responsibility to comply with any applicable restrictions, and you should speak to your personal advisor on this matter. 
    
  19.      LANGUAGE    
    
  If you have received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control. 
    
  20.      COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS 
    
  Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan or this Agreement, unless there is an available exemption from any registration, qualification or other legal requirement applicable to the shares of Common Stock, you understand that the Company will not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock pursuant to the vesting of the RSUs, if the issuance of such Common Stock shall constitute a violation by you or the Company of any provision of law or regulation of any governmental authority.  Further, you agree that the Company shall have unilateral authority to amend the Plan and the Agreement without your consent to the extent necessary to comply with securities or other laws applicable to issuance of shares.  Any determination by the Company in this regard shall be final, binding and conclusive. 
    
  21.      ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND NO ORAL MODIFICATION OR WAIVER 
    
  This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties, provided that, if you are subject to the Mutual Arbitration Agreement, then the Mutual Arbitration Agreement is hereby incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement.  Subject to Sections 20, 22 and 24, and the provisions of the Addendum, this Agreement shall not be modified or amended except in writing duly signed by the parties, except that the Company may adopt a modification or amendment to the Agreement that is not materially adverse to you in writing signed only by the Company.  Any waiver of any right or failure to perform under this Agreement shall be in writing signed by the party granting the waiver and shall not be deemed a waiver of any subsequent failure to perform. 
    
  22.      ADDENDUM 
       
  Your RSUs shall be subject to any special provisions set forth in the Addendum to this Agreement for your country, if any.  If you relocate to one of the countries included in the Addendum, the special provisions for such country shall apply to you, without your consent,     to the extent the Company determines that the application of such provisions is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons.  The Addendum, if any, constitutes part of this Agreement. 
    
  23.      FOREIGN ASSET/ACCOUNT REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND EXCHANGE CONTROLS 
    
  Your country may have certain foreign asset and/or foreign account reporting requirements and exchange controls which may affect your ability to acquire or hold shares of Common Stock under the Plan or cash received from participating in the Plan (including from any dividends paid on shares of Common Stock sale proceeds resulting from the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan) in a brokerage or bank account outside your country.  You may be required to report such accounts, assets or transactions to the tax or other authorities in your country.  You also may be required to repatriate sale proceeds or other funds received as a result of your participation in the Plan to your country through a designated bank or broker within a certain time after receipt.  You acknowledge that it is your responsibility to be compliant with such regulations, and you should consult your personal legal advisor for any details. 
    
    11 

24.      IMPOSITION OF OTHER REQUIREMENTS 
    
  The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the RSUs and on any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.  

For the Company 
        
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 

By 

I have read this Agreement in its entirety.  I understand that this Award has been granted to provide a means for me to acquire and/or expand an ownership position in Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.  I acknowledge and agree that sales of shares will be subject to the Company's policies regulating trading by employees.  In accepting this Award, I hereby agree that Fidelity, or such other vendor as the Company may choose to administer the Plan, may provide the Company with any and all account information for the administration of this Award. 
    
  I hereby agree to all the terms, restrictions and conditions set forth in the Agreement, including, but not limited to, post-employment obligations related to non-competition and non-solicitation. 

12 

Addendum 
    
  BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY 
  SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR RSUs IN CERTAIN COUNTRIES 
    
  Unless otherwise provided below, capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Agreement.  This Addendum includes special country-specific terms that apply if you are residing and/or working in one of the countries listed below. This Addendum is part of the Agreement.   
  This Addendum also includes information of which you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Plan.  For example, certain individual exchange control reporting requirements may apply upon vesting of the RSUs and/or sale of Common Stock.  The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws in effect in the respective countries as of January 2016 and is provided for informational purposes.  Such laws are often complex and change frequently, and results may be different based on the particular facts and circumstances.  As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you do not rely on the information noted herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at the time your RSUs vest or are settled, or you sell shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan. 
  In addition, the information is general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of any particular result.  Accordingly, you should seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation. 
  Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you currently are residing and/or working, transfer employment after the RSUs are granted to you, or are considered a resident of another country for local law purposes, the information contained herein for the country you are residing and/or working in at the time of grant may not be applicable to you, and the Company shall, in its discretion, determine to what extent the terms and conditions contained herein shall be applicable to you.  If you transfer residency and/or employment to another country or are considered a resident of another country listed in the Addendum after the RSUs are granted to you, the terms and/or information contained for that new country (rather than the original grant country) may be applicable to you.   
  All Countries 
  Retirement.   The following provision supplements Section 2 of the Agreement: 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company receives a legal opinion that there has been a legal judgment and/or legal development in your jurisdiction that likely would result in the favorable treatment that applies to the RSUs when you attain age 65 or in the event of your Retirement being deemed unlawful and/or discriminatory, the provisions of Section 2 regarding the treatment of the RSUs when you attain age 65 or in the event of your Retirement shall not be applicable to you. 
  Algeria 
  Exchange Control Information.    Proceeds from the settlement of RSUs, the sale of Common Stock and the receipt of any dividends must be repatriated to Algeria. 
  Argentina 
  Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgement.    This provision supplements Section 7 of the Agreement: 
  By accepting the RSUs, you acknowledge and agree that the grant of RSUs is made by the Company (not the Employer) in its sole discretion and that the value of the RSUs or any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan shall not constitute salary or wages for any purpose under Argentine labor law, including, but not limited to, the calculation of (i) any labor benefits including, but not limited to, vacation pay, thirteenth salary, compensation in lieu of notice, annual bonus, disability, and leave of absence payments, etc., or (ii) any termination or severance indemnities or similar payments.    
  If, notwithstanding the foregoing, any benefits under the Plan are considered salary or wages for any purpose under Argentine labor law, you acknowledge and agree that such benefits shall not accrue more frequently than on each vesting date. 
  Securities Law Information.    Neither the RSUs nor the underlying shares of Common Stock are publicly offered or listed on any stock exchange in Argentina.  The offer is private and not subject to the supervision of any Argentine governmental authority. 
    13 

Exchange Control Information  .  You must comply with any and all Argentine currency exchange restrictions, approvals and reporting requirements in connection with your Award.  
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Argentinian residents must report any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan and held by the resident as of December 31st of each year to the Argentine tax authorities on their annual tax return for that year.  
    
  Australia  
  Compliance with Laws.    Notwithstanding anything else in the Agreement, you will not be entitled to, and shall not claim, any benefit under the Plan if the provision of such benefit would give rise to a breach of Part 2D.2 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), any other provision of that Act, or any other applicable statute, rule or regulation which limits or restricts the giving of such benefits.  Further, the Employer is under no obligation to seek or obtain the approval of its shareholders in general meeting for the purpose of overcoming any such limitation or restriction. 
  Austria  
  Exchange Control Information.    If you hold shares of Common Stock under the Plan outside of Austria (even if you hold them outside of Austria at a branch of an Austrian bank), you may be required to submit a report to the Austrian National Bank as follows: (i) on a quarterly basis if the value of the Common Stock as of any given quarter meets or exceeds  30,000,000; and (ii) on an annual basis if the value of the Common Stock as of December 31 meets or exceeds  5,000,000.  The deadline to file the quarterly report is the 15th day of the month following the end of the respective quarter.  The deadline to file the annual report is January 31 of the following year. 
  When shares of Common Stock are sold, there may be exchange control obligations if the cash proceeds from the sale are held outside Austria.  If the transaction volume of all your cash accounts abroad meets or exceeds  10,000,000, the movements and the balance of all accounts must be reported monthly, as of the last day of the month, on or before the fifteenth day of the following month.  If the transaction value of all cash accounts abroad is less than  10,000,000, no ongoing reporting requirements apply.  
  Belgium 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you are a Belgian resident, you are required to report any security or bank account (including brokerage accounts) you maintain outside of Belgium on your annual tax return. In a separate report, you will be required to provide the National Bank of Belgium with certain details regarding such foreign accounts (including the account number, bank name and country in which any such account was opened).  The forms to complete this report are available on the website of the National Bank of Belgium. 
  Brazil 
  Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgement.    This provision supplements Section 7 of the Agreement: 
  By accepting the RSUs, you acknowledge and agree that (i) you are making an investment decision, (ii) shares of Common Stock will be issued to you only if the vesting conditions are met and you meet the employment conditions during the Restricted Period and (iii) the value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is not fixed and may increase or decrease in value over the Restricted Period.  
  Compliance with Laws.    By accepting the RSUs, you agree that you will comply with Brazilian law when you vest in the RSUs and sell shares of Common Stock. You also agree to report and pay any and all taxes associated with the vesting of the RSUs, the sale of the shares of Common Stock acquired pursuant to the Plan and the receipt of any dividends.  
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting.    You must prepare and submit a declaration of assets and rights held outside of Brazil to the Central Bank on an annual basis if you hold assets or rights valued at more than US$100,000.  Quarterly reporting is required if such amount exceeds US$100,000,000.  The assets and rights that must be reported include shares of Common Stock.   
  Tax on Financial Transaction (IOF)  .  Repatriation of funds (  e.g.  , sale proceeds) into Brazil and the conversion of USD into BRL associated with such fund transfers may be subject to the Tax on Financial Transactions.  It is your responsibility to comply with any applicable Tax on Financial Transactions arising from your participation in the Plan.   
    14 

Bulgaria 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you make any payments to or receive any payments from abroad related to the Plan and the respective amount exceeds BGN 100,000, you should fill in and submit to the respective local bank a specific statistical form regarding the source of the income prior to the ordering of the payment or within thirty (30) days of receipt of a notice by the bank that the amount is in your bank account. 
  The Participant may also be required to report annually to the Bulgarian National Bank, as of March 31 of each year, details of the Participant s receivables in bank accounts held abroad as well as the Participant s securities held abroad if the aggregate value of such receivables and securities is equal to or exceeds BGN 50,000 as of December 31 of the previous calendar year. 
  Canada 
  Settlement of RSUs.    Notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, RSUs will be settled in shares of Common Stock only, not cash. 
  Securities Law Information.    You acknowledge and agree that you will sell shares of Common Stock acquired through participation in the Plan only outside of Canada through the facilities of a stock exchange on which the Common Stock is listed.  Currently, the shares of Common Stock are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.  
  Termination of Employment.    This provision replaces the second paragraph of Section 2(h)(v) of the Agreement: 
  In the event of your termination of employment or other service relationship (for any reason whatsoever, whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or the Plan, your right to vest in the RSUs, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of (1) the date upon which your employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries is terminated; (2) the date you are no longer actively employed by or providing services to the Company or any of its subsidiaries; or (3) the date you receive written notice of termination of employment, regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under applicable laws (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer employed or actively providing services for purposes of the RSUs (including whether you may still be considered employed or actively providing services while on a leave of absence). 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You may be required to report your foreign property on Form T1135 (Foreign Income Verification Statement) if the total cost of your foreign property exceeds C$100,000 at any time in the year.  Foreign property includes cash held outside of Canada and shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan, and it may include unvested RSUs.  The Form T1135 must be filed by April 30 of the following year.  When shares of Common Stock are acquired, their cost generally is the adjusted cost base ( ACB ) of the shares of Common Stock.  The ACB would ordinarily equal the fair market value of the shares of Common Stock at the time of acquisition, but if you own other shares of Common Stock of the same company, this ACB may have to be averaged with the ACB of the other shares of Common Stock.  You should consult with your personal tax advisor to determine your reporting requirements. 
  The following provisions apply if you are resident in Quebec: 
  Language Acknowledgment 
  The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this Agreement, including this Addendum, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be provided to them in English. 
  Consentement relatif   la langue utilis e.  Les parties reconnaissent avoir express ment souhait  que la convention ( Agreement ) ainsi que cette Annexe, ainsi que tous les documents, avis et proc dures judiciares,  x cut s, donn s ou intent s en vertu de, ou li s directement ou indirectement   la pr sente convention, soient r dig s en langue anglaise.  
  Data Privacy.    This provision supplements Section 16 of the Agreement: 
  You hereby authorize the Company, the Employer and their representatives to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan.  You further authorize the Company and its subsidiaries to disclose and discuss the Plan with their advisors.  You further authorize the Company and its subsidiaries to record such information and to keep such information in your employee file. 
    15 

Chile 
  Securities Law Information.    The offer of the RSUs constitutes a private offering in Chile effective as of the Award Date.  The offer of RSUs is made subject to general ruling n  336 of the Chilean Superintendence of Securities and Insurance ( SVS ).  The offer refers to securities not registered at the securities registry or at the foreign securities registry of the SVS, and, therefore, such securities are not subject to oversight of the SVS.  Given the RSUs are not registered in Chile, the Company is not required to provide information about the RSUs or shares of Common Stock in Chile.  Unless the RSUs and/or the shares of Common Stock are registered with the SVS, a public offering of such securities cannot be made in Chile. 
  Esta oferta de Unidades de Acciones Restringidas ( RSU ) constituye una oferta privada de valores en Chile y se inicia en la Fecha de la Concesi n.  Esta oferta de RSU se acoge a las disposiciones de la Norma de Car cter General N  336 ( NCG 336 ) de la Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros de Chile ( SVS ).  Esta oferta versa sobre valores no inscritos en el Registro de Valores o en el Registro de Valores Extranjeros que lleva la SVS, por lo que tales valores no est n sujetos a la fiscalizaci n de  sta.  Por tratarse los RSU de valores no registrados en Chile, no existe obligaci n por parte de la Compa  a de entregar en Chile informaci n p blica respecto de los RSU or sus Acciones.  Estos valores no podr n ser objeto de oferta p blica en Chile mientras no sean inscritos en el Registro de Valores correspondiente. 
  Exchange Control Information.    You are responsible for complying with foreign exchange requirements in Chile.  You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding any applicable exchange control obligations prior to vesting in the RSUs or receiving proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired at vesting or cash dividends.   
  You are not required to repatriate funds obtained from the sale of shares of Common Stock or the receipt of any dividends.  However, if you decide to repatriate such funds, you must do so through the Formal Exchange Market if the amount of funds exceeds US$10,000.  In such case, you must report the payment to a commercial bank or registered foreign exchange office receiving the funds.  If your aggregate investments held outside of Chile exceed US$5,000,000 (including shares of Common Stock and any cash proceeds obtained under the Plan) in the relevant calendar year, you must report the investments quarterly to the Central Bank.  Annex 3.1 of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations must be used to file this report.  Please note that exchange control regulations in Chile are subject to change. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    The Chilean Internal Revenue Service (   CIRS   ) requires all taxpayers to provide information annually regarding:  (i) the taxes paid abroad which they will use as a credit against Chilean income taxes, and (ii) the results of foreign investments.  These annual reporting obligations must be complied with by submitting a sworn statement setting forth this information before March 15 of each year.  The forms to be used to submit the sworn statement are Tax Form 1853  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Credits for Taxes Paid Abroad  and Tax Form 1851  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Investments Held Abroad.   If you are not a Chilean citizen and have been a resident in Chile for less than three (3) years, you are exempt from the requirement to file Tax Form 1853.  These statements must be submitted electronically through the CIRS website:    www.sii.cl  .  
    
  Investments abroad also must be registered with the CIRS for you to be entitled to a foreign tax credit for any tax withheld on dividends abroad, if applicable, and such registration also provides evidence of the acquisition price of the shares of Common Stock (which will be zero) which you will need when the shares of Common Stock are sold.  You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding how to register with the CIRS. 
  China  
  The following provisions apply if you are subject to the exchange control regulations in China, as determined by the Company in its sole discretion: 
  Sales of Shares of Common Stock.    To comply with exchange control regulations in China, you agree that the Company is authorized to force the sale of shares of Common Stock to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the RSUs at any time (including immediately upon vesting or after termination of your employment, as described below), and you expressly authorize the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of such shares of Common Stock.  You agree to sign any agreements, forms and/or consents that may be reasonably requested by the Company (or the designated broker) to effectuate the sale of the shares of Common Stock and shall otherwise cooperate with the Company with respect to such matters, provided that you shall not be permitted to exercise any influence over how, when or whether the sales occur.  You acknowledge that the Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the shares of Common Stock at any particular price.   
    16 

Upon the sale of the shares of Common Stock, the Company agrees to pay the cash proceeds from the sale of Common Stock (less any applicable Tax-Related Items, brokerage fees or commissions) to you in accordance with applicable exchange control laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the restrictions set forth in this Addendum for China below under  Exchange Control Information.   Due to fluctuations in the Common Stock price and/or applicable exchange rates between the vesting date and (if later) the date on which the shares of Common Stock are sold, the amount of proceeds ultimately distributed to you may be more or less than the market value of the shares of Common Stock on the vesting date (which typically is the amount relevant to determining your Tax-Related Items liability).  You understand and agree that the Company is not responsible for the amount of any loss you may incur and that the Company assumes no liability for any fluctuations in the Common Stock price and/or any applicable exchange rate. 
  Treatment of Shares of Common Stock and RSUs Upon Termination of Employment.    Due to exchange control regulations in China, you understand and agree that any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan and held by you in your brokerage account must be sold no later than the last business day of the month following the month of your termination of employment, or within such other period as determined by the Company or required by the China State Administration of Foreign Exchange ( SAFE ) (the  Mandatory Sale Date ).  This includes any portion of shares of Common Stock that vest upon your termination of employment.  For example, if your termination of employment occurs on March 14, 2016, then the Mandatory Sale Date will be April 30, 2016.  You understand that any shares of Common Stock held by you that have not been sold by the Mandatory Sale Date will automatically be sold by the Company s designated broker at the Company s direction (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent), as described under "Sales of Shares of Common Stock" above.  
  If all or a portion of your RSUs become distributable upon your termination of employment or at some time following your termination of employment, that portion will vest and become distributable immediately upon termination of your employment. Any shares of Common Stock distributed to you according to this paragraph must be sold by the Mandatory Sale Date or will be sold by the Company s designated broker at the Company s direction (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent), as described under "Sales of Shares of Common Stock" above.  You will not continue to vest in RSUs or be entitled to any portion of RSUs after your termination of employment. 
    
  Exchange Control Information  .  You understand and agree that, to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements, you are required to hold any shares of Common Stock to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the RSUs in the account that has been established for you with the Company's designated broker and you acknowledge that you are prohibited from transferring any such shares of Common Stock to another brokerage account.  In addition, you are required to immediately repatriate to China the cash proceeds from the sale of the shares of Common Stock issued upon vesting and settlement of the RSUs and any dividends paid on such shares of Common Stock.  You further understand that such repatriation of the cash proceeds will be effectuated through a special exchange control account established by the Company or its subsidiaries, and you hereby consent and agree that the proceeds may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to you.  The Company may deliver the proceeds to you in U.S. dollars or local currency at the Company s discretion.  If the proceeds are paid in U.S. dollars, you understand that you will be required to set up a U.S. dollar bank account in China so that the proceeds may be deposited into this account. If the proceeds are converted to local currency, there may be delays in delivering the proceeds to you and due to fluctuations in the Common Stock trading price and/or the U.S. dollar/PRC exchange rate between the sale/payment date and (if later) when the proceeds can be converted into local currency, the proceeds that you receive may be more or less than the market value of the Common Stock on the sale/payment date (which is the amount relevant to determining your tax liability).  You agree to bear the risk of any currency fluctuation between the sale/payment date and the date of conversion of the proceeds into local currency.   
  You further agree to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in China. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    PRC residents are required to report to SAFE details of their foreign financial assets and liabilities, as well as details of any economic transactions conducted with non-PRC residents, either directly or through financial institutions.   Under these rules, you may be subject to reporting obligations for the Common Stock or equity awards, including RSUs, acquired under the Plan and Plan-related transactions.  It is your responsibility to comply with this reporting obligation and you should consult your personal advisor in this regard. 
  Colombia 
  Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgement.    By accepting your Award of RSUs, you acknowledge that pursuant to Article 128 of the Colombia Labor Code, the Plan and related benefits do not constitute a component of  salary  for any purposes. 
  Exchange Control Information.    Investments in assets located outside of Colombia (including Common Stock) are subject to registration with the Central Bank (  Banco de la Rep blica  ) if the aggregate value of such investments is US$500,000 or more (as of December 31 of the applicable calendar year).  Further, upon the sale of any Common Stock that you have registered with the Central Bank, you must cancel the registration by March 31 of the following year.  You may be subject to fines if you fail to cancel such registration.  
    17 

Securities Law Information.    The shares of Common Stock are not and will not be registered with the Colombian registry of publicly traded securities (  Registro Nacional de Valores y Emisores  ) and therefore the shares of Common Stock may not be offered to the public in Colombia.  Nothing in this document should be construed as the making of a public offer of securities in Colombia. 
  Czech Republic  
  Exchange Control Information.    The Czech National Bank may require you to fulfill certain notification duties in relation to the RSUs and the opening and maintenance of a foreign account.  However, because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your personal legal advisor prior to the vesting of the RSUs and the sale of shares of Common Stock to ensure compliance with current regulations.  It is your responsibility to comply with any applicable Czech exchange control laws. 
  Denmark  
  Stock Option Act.    You acknowledge that you have received an Employer Statement in Danish.  Notwithstanding any provisions in the Agreement to the contrary, if you are determined to be an  Employee,  as defined in section 2 of the Danish Act on the Use of Rights to Purchase or Subscribe for Shares etc. in Employment Relationships (the  Stock Option Act ), the treatment of the RSUs upon termination of employment shall be governed by the Stock Option Act.  However, if the provisions in the Agreement or the Plan governing the treatment of the RSUs upon termination of employment are more favorable, the provisions of the Agreement or the Plan will govern. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you establish an account holding shares of Common Stock or an account holding cash outside Denmark, you must report the account to the Danish Tax Administration.  The form may be obtained from a local bank.  Please note that these obligations are separate from and in addition to the obligations described below. 
  Securities/Tax Reporting Information.    If you hold shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan in a brokerage account with a broker or bank outside Denmark, you are required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about the account.  For this purpose, you must file a Form V (Erklaering V) with the Danish Tax Administration.  Both you and the broker or bank must sign the Form V.  By signing the Form V, the broker or bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the shares of Common Stock in the account. In the event that the applicable broker or bank with which the account is held does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to report, you acknowledge that you are solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account and any shares of Common Stock acquired at vesting and held in such account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of your annual income tax return.  By signing the Form V, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.  A sample of the Form V can be found at the following website:   www.skat.dk  . 
  In addition, if you open a brokerage account (or a deposit account with a U.S. bank), the brokerage account likely will be treated as a deposit account because cash can be held in the account.  Therefore, you likely must file a Form K  (Erklaering K) with the Danish Tax Administration.  The Form K must be signed both by you and by the applicable broker or bank where the account is held.  By signing the Form K, the broker/bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the account.  In the event that the applicable financial institution (broker or bank) with which the account is held, does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to report, you acknowledge that you are solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of your annual income tax return. By signing the Form K, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.  A sample of the Form K can be found at the following website:   www.skat.dk  . 
  Egypt  
  Exchange Control Information.    If you transfer funds into Egypt in connection with the RSUs, you are required to transfer the funds through a registered bank in Egypt. 
  Estonia 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Finland  
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    18 

France  
  Language Acknowledgement 
  En signant et renvoyant le pr sent document d crivant les termes et conditions de votre attribution, vous confirmez ainsi avoir lu et compris les documents relatifs   cette attribution (le Plan et ce Contrat d Attribution) qui vous ont  t  communiqu s en langue anglaise. 
  By accepting your RSUs, you confirm having read and understood the documents relating to this grant (the Plan and this Agreement) which were provided to you in English. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you hold shares of Common Stock outside of France or maintain a foreign bank account (including accounts that were opened and closed during the tax year), you are required to report such to the French tax authorities when filing your annual tax return.  Failure to comply could trigger significant penalties.  Further, if you have a foreign account balance exceeding  1,000,000, you may have additional monthly reporting obligations.  
  Germany  
  Exchange Control Information.    Cross-border payments in excess of  12,500 must be reported to the German Federal Bank.  From September 2013, the German Federal Bank no longer accepts reports in paper form and all reports must be filed electronically. The electronic  General Statistics Reporting Portal  (  Allgemeines Meldeportal Statistik  ) can be accessed on the German Federal Bank s website:   www.bundesbank.de  . 
  In the event that you make or receive a payment in excess of this amount, you are responsible for complying with applicable reporting requirements.   
  Greece 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Hong Kong 
  Securities Law Information.      Warning:  The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong.  You are advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer. If you are in any doubt about any of the contents of the Agreement, including this Addendum, or the Plan, or any other incidental communication materials, you should obtain independent professional advice.  The RSUs and any shares of Common Stock issued at vesting do not constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to employees of the Company or its subsidiaries.  The Agreement, including this Addendum, the Plan and other incidental communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a  prospectus  for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong,.  The RSUs are intended only for the personal use of each eligible employee of the Employer, the Company or any subsidiary and may not be distributed to any other person.   
  Settlement of RSUs and Sale of Common Stock.    Notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, RSUs will be settled in shares of Common Stock only, not cash.  In addition, notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, no shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan can be offered to the public or otherwise disposed of prior to six months from the Award Date.  Any shares of Common Stock received at vesting are accepted as a personal investment. 
  Nature of Scheme.    The Company specifically intends that the Plan will not be an occupational retirement scheme for purposes of the Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance ( ORSO ).   
  Hungary  
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  India 
  Exchange Control Information  .  You must repatriate all proceeds received from the sale of shares to India within 90 days of receipt and all proceeds from the receipt of cash dividends with 180 days of receipt.  You must maintain the foreign inward remittance certificate received from the bank where the foreign currency is deposited in the event that the Reserve Bank of India or the Company or the Employer requests proof of repatriation.  It is your responsibility to comply with applicable exchange control laws in India. 
    19 

Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information  .  You are required to declare in your annual tax return (a) any foreign assets held by you or (b) any foreign bank accounts for which you have signing authority.  Increased penalties for failing to report these foreign assets/accounts have been introduced.  You are responsible for complying with this reporting obligation and are advised to confer with your personal legal advisor in this regard.  
  Ireland 
  Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and RSUs.    This provision supplements Section 7 of the Agreement: 
    
  In accepting this Agreement, you understand and agree that the benefits received under the Plan will not be taken into account for any redundancy or unfair dismissal claim. 
  Israel  
  Settlement of RSUs and Sale of Common Stock  .  Upon the vesting of the RSUs, you agree to the immediate sale of any shares of Common Stock to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the RSUs.  You further agree that the Company is authorized to instruct its designated broker to assist with the mandatory sale of such shares of Common Stock (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization) and you expressly authorize the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of such shares of Common Stock.  You acknowledge that the Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the shares of Common Stock at any particular price.  Upon the sale of the shares of Common Stock, the Company agrees to pay the cash proceeds from the sale of the Common Stock to you, less any brokerage fees or commissions and subject to any obligation to satisfy Tax-Related Items.  Due to fluctuations in the Common Stock price and/or applicable exchange rates between the vesting date and (if later) the date on which the shares of Common Stock are sold, the amount of proceeds ultimately distributed to you may be more or less than the market value of the shares of Common Stock on the vesting date (which typically is the amount relevant to determining your Tax-Related Items liability).  You understand and agree that the Company is not responsible for the amount of any loss you may incur and that the Company assumes no liability for any fluctuations in the Common Stock price and/or any applicable exchange rate.   
  Italy 
  Data Privacy Notice.    This section replaces Section 16 of the Agreement: 
  You understand that the Company and the Employer are the privacy representatives of the Company in Italy and may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of Common Stock or directorships held in the Company or any subsidiaries, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to Common Stock awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, and that the Company and the Employer will process said data and other data lawfully received from third parties ( Personal Data ) for the exclusive purpose of managing and administering the Plan and complying with applicable laws, regulations and Community legislation. You also understand that providing the Company with Personal Data is mandatory for compliance with laws and is necessary for the performance of the Plan and that your denial to provide Personal Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. You understand that Personal Data will not be publicized, but it may be accessible by the Employer as the privacy representative of the Company and within the Employer s organization by its internal and external personnel in charge of processing, and by Fidelity or any other data processor appointed by the Company. The updated list of processors and of the subjects to which Data are communicated will remain available upon request from the Employer. Furthermore, Personal Data may be transferred to banks, other financial institutions or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan.  You understand that Personal Data may also be transferred to the independent registered public accounting firm engaged by the Company, and also to the legitimate addressees under applicable laws. You further understand that the Company and its subsidiaries will transfer Personal Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of your participation in the Plan, and that the Company and its subsidiaries may each further transfer Personal Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer of Personal Data to Fidelity or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan or any proceeds from the sale of such Common Stock.  Such recipients may receive, possess, use, retain and transfer Personal Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.  You understand that these recipients may be acting as controllers, processors or persons in charge of processing, as the case may be, according to applicable privacy laws, and that they may be located in or outside the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere, in countries that do not provide an adequate level of data protection as intended under Italian privacy law.   
  Should the Company exercise its discretion in suspending all necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan, it will delete Personal Data as soon as it has accomplished all the necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan. 
    20 

You understand that Personal Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Personal Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003. 
  The processing activity, including communication, the transfer of Personal Data abroad, including outside of the European Economic Area, as specified herein and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require your consent thereto as the processing is necessary to performance of law and contractual obligations related to implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  You understand that, pursuant to section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, you have the right at any moment to, including, but not limited to, obtain confirmation that Personal Data exists or not, access, verify its contents, origin and accuracy, delete, update, integrate, correct, block or stop, for legitimate reason, the Personal Data processing. To exercise privacy rights, you should contact the Employer. Furthermore, you are aware that Personal Data will not be used for direct marketing purposes.  In addition, Personal Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting your human resources department. 
  Plan Document Acknowledgment.    By accepting the RSUs, you acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan, reviewed the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum. 
  In addition, you further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and expressly approve without limitation the following clauses in the Agreement:  Section 4 (Responsibility for Taxes); Section 7 (Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and RSUs); Section 8 (No Advice Regarding Grant); Section 9 (Right to Continued Employment); Section 11 (Deemed Acceptance); Section 13 (Severability and Validity); Section 14 (Governing Law, Jurisdiction and Venue); Section 16 (Data Privacy, as replaced by the above provision in this Addendum); Section 17 (Electronic Delivery and Acceptance); Section 18 (Insider Trading/Market Abuse Laws); Section 19 (Language); Section 20 (Compliance with Laws and Regulations); Section 21 (Entire Agreement and No Oral Modification or Waiver); Section 22 (Addendum); Section 23 (Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Requirements and Exchange Controls); and Section 24 (Imposition of Other Requirements). 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you are an Italian resident who, at any time during the fiscal year, holds foreign financial assets (including cash and shares of Common Stock) which may generate income taxable in Italy, you are required to report these assets on your annual tax return for the year during which the assets are held, or on a special form if no tax return is due.  These reporting obligations also apply if you are the beneficial owner of foreign financial assets under Italian money laundering provisions. 
  Tax Information.    Italian residents may be subject to tax on the value of financial assets held outside of Italy. The taxable amount will be the fair market value of the financial assets, assessed at the end of the calendar year. For the purposes of the market value assessment, the documentation issued by the Plan broker may be used.   If you are subject to this foreign financial assets tax, you will need to report the value of your financial assets held abroad in your annual tax return.  You are advised to consult your personal legal advisor for additional information about the foreign financial assets tax. 
  Japan  
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you are a resident of Japan or a foreign national who has established permanent residency in Japan, you will be required to report details of any assets (including any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan) held outside of Japan as of December 31st of each year, to the extent such assets have a total net fair market value exceeding  50,000,000. Such report will be due by March 15th of the following year. You should consult with your personal tax advisor as to whether the reporting obligation applies to you and whether you will be required to report details of any outstanding RSUs or shares of Common Stock held by you in the report. 
  Korea  
  Exchange Control Information.    Korean residents who realize US$500,000 or more from the sale of shares of Common Stock or receipt of dividends in a single transaction are required to repatriate the proceeds to Korea within three years of receipt. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You will be required to declare all foreign accounts (  i.e  ., non-Korean bank accounts, brokerage accounts, etc.) to the Korean tax authorities and file a report if the monthly balance of such accounts exceeds a certain limit (currently KRW 1 billion or an equivalent amount in foreign currency).  You should consult with your personal tax advisor on how to value foreign accounts for purposes of this reporting requirement and whether you are required to file a report with respect to such account. 
    21 

Kuwait 
  Securities Law Notification.    This Plan does not constitute the marketing or offering of securities in Kuwait pursuant to Law No. 7 of 2010 (establishing the Capital Markets Authority) and its implementing regulations.  Offerings under the Plan are being made only to eligible employees of your Employer or the Company or any other subsidiary or affiliate of the Company. 
  Luxembourg  
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Mexico  
  Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgment.    By accepting this Award, you expressly recognize that the Company, with offices at     345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154, U.S.A., is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and that your participation in the Plan and acquisition of shares does not constitute an employment relationship between you and the Company since you are participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and your sole employer is Bristol-Myers Squibb Company in Mexico ( BMS-Mexico ), not the Company in the United States.  Based on the foregoing, you expressly recognize that the Plan and the benefits that you may derive from participation in the Plan do not establish any rights between you and your employer, BMS-Mexico, and do not form part of the employment conditions and/or benefits provided by BMS-Mexico and any modification of the Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of your employment. 
  You further understand that your participation in the Plan is as a result of a unilateral and discretionary decision of the Company; therefore, the Company reserves the absolute right to amend and/or discontinue your participation at any time without any liability to you. 
  Finally, you hereby declare that you do not reserve to yourself any action or right to bring any claim against the Company for any compensation or damages regarding any provision of the Plan or the benefits derived under the Plan, and you therefore grant a full and broad release to the Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates, branches, representation offices, its shareholders, officers, agents or legal representatives with respect to any claim that may arise. 
  Pol tica Laboral y Reconocimiento/Aceptaci n.    Aceptando este Premio, el participante reconoce que     la Compa  a, with offices at     345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154, U.S.A., es el  nico responsable de la administraci n del Plan y que la participaci n del Participante en el mismo y la adquisicion de acciones no constituye de ninguna manera una relaci n laboral entre el Participante y la Compa  a, toda vez que la participaci n del participante en el Plan deriva  nicamente de una relaci n comercial con la Compa  a, reconociendo expresamente que el  nico empleador del participante lo es Bristol-Myers Squibb Company en Mexico     ( BMS-Mexico ), no es la Compa  a en los Estados Unidos.  Derivado de lo anterior, el participante expresamente reconoce que el Plan y los beneficios que pudieran derivar del mismo no establecen ning n derecho entre el participante y su empleador, BMS`-M xico, y no forman parte de las condiciones laborales y/o prestaciones otorgadas por BMS-M xico, y expresamente el participante reconoce que cualquier modificaci n el Plan o la terminaci n del mismo de manera alguna podr  ser interpretada como una modificaci n de los  condiciones de trabajo del participante. 
  Asimismo, el participante entiende que su participaci n en el Plan es resultado de la decisi n unilateral y discrecional de la Compa  a, por lo tanto, la Compa  a.  Se reserva el derecho absoluto para modificar y/o terminar la participaci n del participante en cualquier momento, sin ninguna responsabilidad para el participante. 
  Finalmente, el participante manifiesta que no se reserva ninguna acci n o derecho que origine una demanda en contra de la Compa  a, por cualquier compensaci n o da o en relaci n con cualquier disposici n del Plan o de los beneficios derivados del mismo, y en consecuencia el participante otorga un amplio y total finiquito a la Compa  a, sus entidades relacionadas, afiliadas, sucursales, oficinas de representaci n, sus accionistas, directores, agentes y representantes legales con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera surgir. 
  Netherlands 
  Securities Law Information.    Attention!  This investment falls outside AFM supervision.  No prospectus required for this activity. 
  Norway 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    22 

Oman 
  Securities Law Notification.    This Plan does not constitute the marketing or offering of securities in Oman and consequently has not been registered or approved by the Central Bank of Oman, the Omani Ministry of Commerce and Industry, the Omani Capital Market Authority or any other authority in the Sultanate of Oman.  Offerings under the Plan are being made only to eligible employees of your Employer or the Company or any other subsidiary, affiliate or joint venture of the Company. 
  Peru  
  Securities Law Information.    The grant of RSUs is considered a private offering in Peru; therefore, it is not subject to registration. 
  Labor Law Acknowledgement.    The following provision supplements Section 7 of the Agreement: 
  In accepting the Award of RSUs pursuant to this Agreement, you acknowledge that the RSUs are being granted   ex gratia   to you with the purpose of rewarding you. 
  Poland  
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Polish residents holding foreign securities (including shares of Common Stock) and maintaining accounts abroad must report information to the National Bank of Poland.  Specifically, if the aggregate value of shares and cash held in such foreign accounts exceeds PLN 7 million, Polish residents must file reports on the transactions and balances of the accounts on a quarterly basis on special forms that are available on the website of the National Bank of Poland.   
  Exchange Control Information.    Polish residents are required to transfer funds (  i.e  ., in connection with the sale of shares of Common Stock) through a bank account in Poland if the transferred amount in any single transaction exceeds a specified threshold (currently  15,000).  If you are a Polish resident, you must also retain all documents connected with any foreign exchange transactions you engage in for a period of five years, as measured from the end of the year in which such transaction occurred.  
  You should consult with your personal legal advisor to determine what you must do to fulfill any applicable reporting/exchange control duties. 
  Portugal  
  Language Consent.    You hereby expressly declare that you have full knowledge of the English language and have read, understood and fully accepted and agreed with the terms and conditions established in the Plan and the Agreement. 
  Conhecimento da Lingua.  Voc  expressamente declara ter pleno conhecimento do idioma ingl s e ter lido, entendido e totalmente aceito e concordou com os termos e condi  es estabelecidas no plano e no acordo. 
  Puerto Rico 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Romania 
  Exchange Control Information.    Any transfer of funds exceeding  15,000 (whether via one transaction or several transactions that appear to be linked to each other) must be reported to the National Office for Prevention and Control of Money Laundering on specific forms by the relevant bank or financial institution.      If you deposit the proceeds from the sale of your shares of Common Stock in a bank account in Romania, you may have to provide the Romanian bank through which the operations are effected with appropriate documentation regarding the receipt of the income.  You should consult with a personal legal advisor to determine whether you will be required to submit such documentation to the Romanian bank. 
    23 

Russia 
  Exchange Control Information.    You acknowledge that you must repatriate the proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock within a reasonably short time of receipt.  Such amounts must be initially credited to you through a foreign currency account opened in your name at an authorized bank in Russia.  After the funds are initially received in Russia, they may be further remitted to foreign banks subject to the following limitations:  (i) the foreign account may be opened only for individuals; (ii) the foreign account may not be used for business activities; and (iii) you must give notice to the Russian tax authorities about the opening/closing of each foreign account within one month of the account opening/closing.  Cash dividends (but not dividend equivalents) and cash income received from the transfer of funds and/or shares of Common Stock into the fiduciary/trust management of a non-resident do not need to be remitted to your bank account in Russia but instead can be remitted directly to a foreign individual bank account (in Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ( OECD ) and Financial Action Task Force ( FATF ) countries).  As from January 1, 2018, cash proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock listed on the Russian stock exchange or a foreign exchange on the legally approved list, currently including the New York Stock Exchange, also can be paid directly to your foreign bank account opened with a bank located in an OECD or FATF country.  
    
  You should consult your personal advisor before selling any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan and remitting any sale proceeds to Russia, as significant penalties may apply in the case of non-compliance with exchange control requirement and exchange control requirements are subject to change at any time, often without notice. 
    
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Russian residents are required to notify the Russian tax authorities within one month of opening or closing a foreign bank account, or of changing any account details.  Effective as of January 1, 2015, Russian residents also will be required to file annually with the Russian tax authorities reports of the transactions in his or her foreign bank accounts.  According to draft regulations implementing this law, the first annual report on an approved form for the reporting year 2015 should be due on or before June 1, 2016.  The tax authorities can require any supporting documents related to transactions in your foreign bank account.  
    
  Securities Law Information.    These materials do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia nor do they constitute placement of the shares of Common Stock in Russia. Any shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the RSUs shall be delivered to you through a brokerage account in the U.S.  You may hold shares in your brokerage account in the U.S.; however, in no event will shares issued to you and/or share certificates or other instruments be delivered to you in Russia.  The issuance of Common Stock pursuant to the RSUs described herein has not and will not be registered in Russia and hence, the shares of Common Stock described herein may not be admitted or used for offering, placement or public circulation in Russia. 
  U.S. Transaction.    You are not permitted to make any public advertising or announcements regarding the RSUs or Common Stock in Russia, or promote these shares to other Russian legal entities or individuals, and you are not permitted to sell or otherwise dispose of Common Stock directly to other Russian legal entities or individuals.  You are permitted to sell shares of Common Stock only on the New York Stock Exchange and only through a U.S. broker. 
  Data Privacy Consent.    This section replaces Section 16 of the Agreement: 
  You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. 
  You understand that the Company, any subsidiary and/or the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor ( Data ), for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan. 
  You understand that Data may be transferred to Fidelity, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which assists in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. You understand that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States, or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country (  e.g  ., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.  In this case, appropriate safeguards will be taken by the Company to ensure that your Data is processed with an adequate level of protection and in compliance with applicable local laws and regulation (especially through contractual clauses like European Model Clauses for European countries).      You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the International Compensation and Benefits Group.  You authorize the Company, Fidelity and other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the shares of Common Stock received  
    24 

upon vesting of the RSUs may be deposited.  You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. 
  You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case and without cost, by contacting in writing the International Compensation and Benefits Group.  Further, you understand that you are providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis.  If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you RSUs or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards.  Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan.  For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact the International Compensation and Benefits Group. 
  Labor Law Information  .    You acknowledge that if you continue to hold shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan after an involuntary termination of your employment, you may not be eligible to receive unemployment benefits in Russia. 
  Anti-Corruption Information.    Anti-corruption laws prohibit certain public servants, their spouses and their dependent children from owning any foreign source financial instruments (  e.g  ., shares of foreign companies such as the Company).  Accordingly, you should inform the Company if you are covered by these laws because you should not hold shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan. 
  Saudi Arabia 
  Securities Law Information.    This document may not be distributed in the Kingdom except to such persons as are permitted under the Offers of Securities Regulations issued by the Capital Market Authority. 
  The Capital Market Authority does not make any representation as to the accuracy or completeness of this document, and expressly disclaims any liability whatsoever for any loss arising from, or incurred in reliance upon, any part of this document. Prospective purchasers of the securities offered hereby should conduct their own due diligence on the accuracy of the information relating to the securities. If you do not understand the contents of this document you should consult an authorized financial advisor. 
  Singapore 
  Restrictions on Sale and Transferability  . You hereby agrees that any shares of Common Stock acquired pursuant to the RSUs will not be offered for sale in Singapore prior to the six-month anniversary of the Award Date, unless such sale or offer is made pursuant to the exemptions under Part XIII Division 1 Subdivision (4) (other than section 280) of the Securities and Futures Act (Chap. 289, 2006 Ed.) ( SFA ). 
  Securities Law Information.    The grant of RSUs is being made in reliance of section 273(1)(f) of the SFA for which it is exempt from the prospectus and registration requirements under the SFA and is not made to you with a view to the RSUs being subsequently offered for sale to any other party.  The Plan has not been lodged or registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore. 
  Chief Executive Officer and Director Notification Requirement.    If you are the Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) or a director, associate director or shadow director of a Singapore company, you are subject to certain notification requirements under the Singapore Companies Act.  Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Singapore company in writing when you receive an interest (  e.g.  , RSUs, Common Stock) in the Company or any related companies.  In addition, you must notify the Singapore company when you sell shares of the Company or any related company (including when you sell shares of     Common Stock acquired pursuant to your RSUs).  These notifications must be made within two business days of acquiring or disposing of any interest in the Company or any related company.  In addition, a notification must be made of your interests in the Company or any related company within two business days of becoming the CEO or a director. 
  South Africa  
  Responsibility for Taxes.    The following provision supplements Section 4 (  Responsibility for Taxes  ) of this Agreement: 
  You are required to immediately notify the Employer of the amount of any gain realized at vesting of the RSUs.  If you fail to advise the Employer of such gain, you may be liable for a fine. 
    25 

Exchange Control Information.    You are solely responsible for complying with applicable South African exchange control regulations, and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from failure to comply with applicable laws.  In particular, if you are a resident for exchange control purposes, you are required to obtain approval from the South African Reserve Bank for payments (including payment of proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock) that you receive into accounts based outside of South Africa (  e.g.  , a U.S. brokerage account).  Because the exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your legal advisor prior to the acquisition or sale of shares of Common Stock under the Plan to ensure compliance with current regulations. 
  Spain 
  Exchange Control Information.    If you acquire shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the RSUs and wish to import the ownership title of such shares (  i.e  ., share certificates) into Spain, you must declare the importation of such securities to the Spanish   Direccion General de Pol tica Comercial y de Inversiones Extranjeras   (the  DGPCIE ). Generally, the declaration must be made in January for shares of Common Stock acquired or sold during (or owned as of December 31 of) the prior year; however, if the value of shares acquired or sold exceeds the applicable threshold (currently  1,502,530) (or you hold 10% or more of the share capital of the Company or such other amount that would entitle you to join the Company s board of directors), the declaration must be filed within one month of the acquisition or sale, as applicable. In addition, you also must file a declaration of ownership of foreign securities with the Directorate of Foreign Transactions each January.   
  When receiving foreign currency payments derived pursuant to the RSUs (e.g., proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock), you must inform the financial institution receiving the payment of the basis upon which such payment is made if the payment exceeds  50,000.  Upon request, you will need to provide the institution with the following information: your name, address, and fiscal identification number; the name and corporate domicile of the Company; the amount of the payment; the currency used; the country of origin; the reasons for the payment; and any additional information required. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You are required to electronically declare to the Bank of Spain any security accounts (including brokerage accounts held abroad), as well as the security (including shares of Common Stock acquired at vesting of RSUs) held in such accounts and any transactions carried out with non-residents if the value of the transactions for all such accounts during the prior year or the balances in such accounts as of December 31 of the prior year exceeds  1,000,000.  If neither the total balances nor total transactions with non-residents during the relevant period exceed  50,000,000 a summarized form declaration may be used.  More frequent reporting is required if such transaction value or account balance exceeds  100,000,000. 
  In addition, to the extent you hold shares of Common Stock and/or have bank accounts outside of Spain with a value in excess of  50,000 (for each type of asset) as of December 31, you will be required to report information on such assets on your tax return for such year.  After such shares of Common Stock and/or accounts are initially reported, the reporting obligation will apply for subsequent years only if the value of any previously reported shares of Common Stock or accounts increases by more than  20,000 as of each subsequent December 31. 
  Labor Law Acknowledgment.    This provision supplements Sections 2(g) and 7 of the Agreement: 
  By accepting the RSUs, you consent to participation in the Plan and acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan document. 
  You understand     and agree that, as a condition of the grant of the RSUs, except as provided for in Section 2 of the Agreement, your termination of employment for any reason (including for the reasons listed below) will automatically result in the forfeiture of any RSUs that have not vested on the date of your termination.  
  In particular, you understand and agree that, unless otherwise provided in the Agreement, the RSUs will be forfeited without entitlement to the underlying shares of Common Stock or to any amount as indemnification in the event of a termination of your employment prior to vesting by reason of, including, but not limited to: resignation, disciplinary dismissal adjudged to be with cause, disciplinary dismissal adjudged or recognized to be without good cause (  i.e.  , subject to a  despido improcedente ), individual or collective layoff on objective grounds, whether adjudged to be with cause or adjudged or recognized to be without cause, material modification of the terms of employment under Article 41 of the Workers  Statute, relocation under Article 40 of the Workers  Statute, Article 50 of the Workers  Statute, unilateral withdrawal by the Employer, and under Article 10.3 of Royal Decree 1382/1985. 
  Furthermore, you understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and discretionally decided to grant RSUs under the Plan to individuals who may be employees of the Company or a subsidiary.  The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or any subsidiary on an ongoing basis, other than as expressly set forth in the Agreement.  Consequently, you understand that the RSUs are granted on the assumption and condition that the RSUs and the shares of Common Stock underlying the RSUs shall not become a part of any employment or service contract (either with the Company, the Employer or any subsidiary) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any  
    26 

purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever.  In addition, you understand that the RSUs would not be granted to you but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, you acknowledge and freely accept that, should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then any Award of RSUs shall be null and void. 
  Securities Law Information.    The RSUs and the Common Stock described in the Agreement and this Addendum do not qualify under Spanish regulations as securities.  No  offer of securities to the public,  as defined under Spanish law, has taken place or will take place in the Spanish territory.  The Agreement (including this Addendum) has not been nor will it be registered with the   Comisi n Nacional del Mercado de Valores  , and does not constitute a public offering prospectus. 
  Sweden 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Switzerland 
  Securities Law Information.    The RSUs are not intended to be publicly offered in or from Switzerland.  Because the offer of RSUs is considered a private offering, it is not subject to registration in Switzerland.  Neither this document nor any other materials relating to the RSUs constitutes a prospectus as such term is understood pursuant to article 652a of the Swiss Code of Obligations, and neither this document nor any other materials relating to the RSUs may be publicly distributed nor otherwise made publicly available in Switzerland. 
  Taiwan  
  Securities Law Information.    The offer of participation in the Plan is available only for employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.  The offer of participation in the Plan is not a public offer of securities by a Taiwanese company. 
  Exchange Control Information.    You may remit foreign currency (including proceeds from the sale of Common Stock) into or out of Taiwan up to US$5,000,000 per year without special permission.  If the transaction amount is TWD500,000 or more in a single transaction, you must submit a Foreign Exchange Transaction Form to the remitting bank and provide supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank.   
  Thailand  
  Exchange Control Information.    If the proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock or the receipt of dividends are equal to or greater than US$50,000 or more in a single transaction, you must repatriate the proceeds to Thailand immediately upon receipt and convert the funds to Thai Baht or deposit the proceeds in a foreign currency deposit account maintained by a bank in Thailand within 360 days of remitting the proceeds to Thailand. In addition you must report the inward remittance to the Bank of Thailand on a foreign exchange transaction form.  If you fail to comply with these obligations, you may be subject to penalties assessed by the Bank of Thailand.  Because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your personal advisor before selling shares of Common Stock to ensure compliance with current regulations.  You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Thailand, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable laws. 
  Tunisia 
  Securities Law Information.    All proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock or the receipt of dividends must be repatriated to Tunisia.  You should consult your personal advisor before taking action with respect to remittance of proceeds into Tunisia.  You   may   be required to obtain prior authorization from the Central Bank of Tunisia ("CBT") for the acquisition of shares of Common Stock under the Plan.  Because you do not pay anything for the RSUs or the underlying shares of Common Stock, the application of this requirement to the RSUs is unclear.  For this reason, you should consult your personal legal advisor prior to vesting and settlement or, at the latest, prior to repatriation of any proceeds back to Tunisia at which time you may also be able to apply for any necessary authorization from the CBT. You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Tunisia.  In addition, if you hold assets abroad in excess of a certain amount, you must report the assets to the CBT. 
  Turkey 
  Securities Law Information.    Under Turkish law, you are not permitted to sell shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan in Turkey.  The shares of Common Stock are currently traded on the New York Stock Exchange, which is located outside of Turkey, under the ticker symbol  BMY  and the shares of Common Stock may be sold through this exchange. 
    27 

Exchange Control Information.    In certain circumstances, Turkish residents are permitted to sell shares traded on a non-Turkish stock exchange only through a financial intermediary licensed in Turkey and should be reported to the Turkish Capital Markets Board.  Therefore, you may be required to appoint a Turkish broker to assist with the sale of the shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan.  You should consult your personal legal advisor before selling any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan to confirm the applicability of this requirement. 
  United Arab Emirates 
  Securities Law Information.    The Plan is only being offered to qualified employees and is in the nature of providing equity incentives to employees of the Company or its subsidiary or affiliate in the UAE.  Any documents related to the Plan, including the Plan, Plan prospectus and other grant documents ( Plan Documents ), are intended for distribution only to such employees and must not be delivered to, or relied on by, any other person.  Prospective purchasers of the securities offered should conduct their own due diligence on the securities. If you do not understand the contents of the Plan Documents, you should consult an authorized financial adviser. 
    
  The Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority has no responsibility for reviewing or verifying any Plan Documents  nor taken steps to verify the information set out in them, and thus, are not responsible for  such documents. 
  The securities to which this summary relates may be illiquid and/or subject to restrictions on their resale. Prospective purchasers of the securities offered should conduct their own due diligence on the securities. 
  United Kingdom 
  Responsibility for Taxes.    This provision supplements Section 4 of the Agreement:   
  You agree that, if you do not pay or the Employer or the Company does not withhold from you the full amount of income tax due in connection with the RSUs within 90 days after the end of the U.K. year in which the taxable event occurs, or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (the  Due Date ), then the amount of income tax that should have been withheld shall constitute a loan owed by you to the Employer, effective or the Due Date.  You agree that the loan will bear interest at Her Majesty s Revenue   Customs  ( HMRC ) official rate and will be immediately due and repayable by you, and the Company and/or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to in Section 4 of the Agreement. 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are a director or executive officer (as within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), the terms of the immediately foregoing provision will not apply.  In the event that you are a director or executive officer and the income tax that is due is not collected from or paid by you by the Due Date, the amount of any uncollected income tax may constitute a benefit to you on which additional income tax and national insurance contributions may be payable.  You may be responsible for reporting and paying any income tax due on this additional benefit directly to the HMRC under the self-assessment regime and for reimbursing the Company or the Employer (as appropriate) for the value of any employee national insurance contributions due on this additional benefit, which the Company or the Employer may recover from you by any means referred to in Section 4 of the Agreement. 
  Venezuela  
  Securities Law Information.    The RSUs granted under the Plan and the shares of Common Stock issued under the Plan are offered as a personal, private, exclusive transaction and are not subject to Venezuelan securities regulations. 
  Exchange Control Information.    Exchange control restrictions may limit the ability to remit funds out of Venezuela in order to receive shares of Common Stock upon vesting of the RSUs, or remit funds into Venezuela following the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired upon vesting of the RSUs. The Company reserves the right to restrict settlement of the RSUs or to amend or cancel the RSUs at any time in order to comply with applicable exchange control laws in Venezuela.  Any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan are intended to be an investment rather than for the resale and conversion of the shares into foreign currency.  You are responsible for complying with exchange control laws in Venezuela and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable laws.  Because exchange control laws and regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult with your personal legal advisor before accepting the RSUs and before selling any shares of Common Stock acquired upon vesting of the RSUs to ensure compliance with current regulations. 
    
    28 

</EX-10.Z>

<EX-10.AA>
 4
 exhibit10aarestrictedstock.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.AA

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 10aa. 
  
  RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AGREEMENT 
  UNDER THE BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY 
  2012 STOCK AWARD AND INCENTIVE PLAN 
    
  BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), has granted to you the Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs ) specified in the Grant Summary located on the Stock Plan Administrator's website, which is incorporated into this Restricted Stock Units Agreement (the  Agreement ) and deemed to be a part hereof.  The RSUs have been granted to you under Section 6(e) of the 2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), on the terms and conditions specified in the Grant Summary and this Agreement.   Capitalized terms used in this Agreement that are not specifically defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.  
    
  1.      RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARD 
    
  The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the  Committee ) has granted to you as of the Award Date an Award of RSUs as designated herein subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan.  Each RSU shall represent the conditional right to receive, upon settlement of the RSU, one share of Bristol-Myers Squibb Common Stock ( Common Stock ) or, at the discretion of the Company, the cash equivalent thereof (subject to any tax withholding as described in Section 4).  The purpose of such Award is to motivate and retain you as an employee of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, to encourage you to continue to give your best efforts for the Company s future success, and to increase your proprietary interest in the Company.  Except as may be required by law, you are not required to make any payment (other than payments for taxes pursuant to Section 4 hereof) or provide any consideration other than the rendering of future services to the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. 
    
  2.      RESTRICTIONS, FORFEITURES, AND SETTLEMENT 
    
  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2, each RSU shall be subject to the restrictions and conditions set forth herein during the period from the Award Date until the date such RSU has become vested and non-forfeitable     such that there are no longer any RSUs that may become potentially vested and non-forfeitable (the  Restricted Period ).  Vesting of the RSUs is conditioned upon you remaining continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company from the Award Date until the relevant vesting date, subject to the provisions of this Section 2.  Assuming satisfaction of such employment conditions, 25% of the RSUs shall vest on each of the first four anniversaries of the Award Date (each, a  Vesting Date ).   
    
           (a) 
    Nontransferability  .  During the Restricted Period and any further period prior to settlement of your RSUs, you may not sell, transfer, pledge or assign any of the RSUs or your rights relating thereto.     If you attempt to assign your rights under this Agreement in violation of the provisions herein, the Company s obligation to settle RSUs or otherwise make payments shall terminate. 
       
           (b) 
    Time of Settlement  .  RSUs shall be settled promptly upon expiration of the Restricted Period without forfeiture of the RSUs (  i.e  ., upon vesting), but in any event within 60 days after expiration of the Restricted Period, by delivery of one share of Common Stock for each RSU being settled, or, at the discretion of the Company, the cash equivalent thereof; provided, however, that settlement of an RSU shall be subject to Plan Section 11(k), including if applicable the six-month delay rule in Plan Sections 11(k)(i)(C)(2) and 11(k)(i)(G); provided further, that no dividend or dividend equivalents will be paid, accrued or accumulated in respect of the period during which settlement was delayed.  (  Note: This rule may apply to any portion of the RSUs that vest after the time you become Retirement eligible under the Plan, and could apply in other cases as well  ).  Settlement of RSUs which directly or indirectly result from adjustments to RSUs shall occur at the time of settlement of, and subject to the restrictions and conditions that apply to, the granted RSUs. Settlement of cash amounts which directly or indirectly result from adjustments to RSUs shall be included as part of your regular payroll payment as soon as administratively practicable after the settlement date for the underlying RSUs, and subject to the restrictions and conditions that apply to, the granted RSUs.  Until shares are delivered to you in settlement of RSUs, you shall have none of the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to the shares issuable in settlement of the RSUs, including the right to vote the shares and receive actual dividends and other distributions on the underlying shares of Common Stock.  Shares of stock issuable in settlement of RSUs shall be delivered to you upon settlement in certificated form or in such other manner as the Company may reasonably determine.  At that time, you will have all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company. 

1 

(c) 
    Retirement and Death  .  In the event of your Retirement (as that term is defined in the Plan; however, if you attain age 65 before Retirement, 100% of your RSUs held for at least one year will have vested prior to Retirement) or your death while employed by the Company prior to the end of the Restricted Period, you, or your estate, shall be deemed vested and entitled to settlement of (  i.e  ., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) a proportionate number of the total number of RSUs granted (taking into account RSUs previously vested), provided that you have been continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for at least one year following the Award Date and your employment has not been terminated by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.  If you are only eligible for Retirement pursuant to Plan Section 2(x)(iii), and you are employed in the United States or Puerto Rico at the time of your Retirement, you shall be entitled to the pro rata vesting described in this Section 2(c) only if you execute and do not revoke a release in favor of the Company and its predecessors, successors, affiliates, subsidiaries, directors and employees in a form satisfactory to the Company; if you fail to execute or revoke the release, or your release fails to become effective and irrevocable within 60 days of the date your employment terminates, you shall forfeit any RSUs that are unvested as of the date your employment terminates.  The formula for determining the proportionate number of your RSUs to become vested and non-forfeitable upon your Retirement or death is available by request from the Office of the Corporate Secretary at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154.  RSUs that become vested and nonforfeitable under this Section 2(c) shall be distributed in accordance with Section 2(b) (  i.e.  , within 60 days of the date of your death or Retirement).  In the event of your becoming vested hereunder on account of death, or in the event of your death subsequent to your Retirement hereunder and prior to the delivery of shares in settlement of RSUs (not previously forfeited), shares in settlement of your RSUs shall be delivered to your estate, upon presentation to the Committee of letters testamentary or other documentation satisfactory to the Committee, and your estate shall succeed to any other rights provided hereunder in the event of your death. 
       
           (d) 
    Termination not for Misconduct/Detrimental Conduct  .  In the event your employment is terminated by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for reasons other than misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, and you are not eligible for Retirement, you shall be entitled to settlement of (  i.e  ., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) a proportionate number of the total number of RSUs granted (taking into account RSUs previously vested), provided that you have been continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for at least one year following the Award Date. If you are not eligible for Retirement, and you are employed in the United States or Puerto Rico at the time of your termination, you shall be entitled to the pro rata vesting described in this Section 2(d) only if you execute and do not revoke a release in favor of the Company and its predecessors, successors, affiliates, subsidiaries, directors and employees in a form satisfactory to the Company; if you fail to execute or revoke the release, or your release fails to become effective and irrevocable within 60 days of the date your employment terminates, you shall forfeit any RSUs that are unvested as of the date your employment terminates.  The formula for determining the proportionate number of RSUs you are entitled to under this Section 2(d) is available by request from the Office of the Corporate Secretary at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154. 
       
           (e) 
    Disability  .  In the event you become Disabled (as that term is defined below), for the period during which you continue to be deemed to be employed by the Company or a subsidiary (  i.e  ., the period during which you receive Disability benefits), you will not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of the RSUs.  However, no period of continued Disability shall continue beyond 29 months for purposes of the RSUs, at which time you will have considered to have separated from service in accordance with applicable laws as more fully provided for herein. Upon the termination of your receipt of Disability benefits, (i) you will not be deemed to have terminated employment if you return to employment status, and (ii) if you do not return to employment status or are considered to have separated from service as noted above, you will be deemed to have terminated employment at the date of cessation of payments to you under all disability pay plans of the Company and its subsidiaries (unless you are on an approved leave of absence per Section (i) herein), with such termination treated for purposes of the RSUs as a Retirement or death (as detailed in Section 2(c) herein), or voluntary termination (as detailed in Section 2(g) herein) based on your circumstances at the time of such termination.  For purposes of this Agreement,  Disability  or  Disabled  shall mean qualifying for and receiving payments under a disability plan of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate either in the United States or in a jurisdiction outside of the United States, and in jurisdictions outside of the United States shall also include qualifying for and receiving payments under a mandatory or universal disability plan or program managed or maintained by the government.  
       
           (f) 
    Qualifying Termination Following Change in Control  .  In the event your employment is terminated by reason of a Qualifying Termination during the Protected Period following a Change in Control, the Restricted Period and all remaining restrictions shall expire and the RSUs shall be deemed fully vested. 
       
           (g) 
    Other Termination of Employment  .   In the event of your voluntary termination (subject to Section 2(c)), or termination by the Company or a subsidiary for misconduct or other conduct deemed by the Company to be detrimental to the interests of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, you shall forfeit all unvested RSUs on the date of termination. 
       2 

(h) 
    Other Terms  .  
       
           (i)  
    In the event that you fail promptly to pay or make satisfactory arrangements as to the Tax-Related Items as provided in Section 4, all RSUs subject to restriction shall be forfeited by you and shall be deemed to be reacquired by the Company.  
       
           (ii)  
    You may, at any time prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, waive all rights with respect to all or some of the RSUs by delivering to the Company a written notice of such waiver. 
       
           (iii) 
    Termination of employment includes any event if immediately thereafter you are no longer an employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, subject to Section 2(i) hereof.  References in this Section 2 to employment by the Company include employment by a subsidiary of the Company.  Termination of employment means an event after which you are no longer employed by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company.  Such an event could include the disposition of a subsidiary or business unit by the Company or a subsidiary. 
       
           (iv) 
    Upon any termination of your employment, any RSUs as to which the Restricted Period has not expired at or before such termination shall be forfeited, subject to Sections 2(c)-(f) hereof.  Other provisions of this Agreement notwithstanding, in no event will an RSU that has been forfeited thereafter vest or be settled.     
       
           (v) 
    In the event of termination of your employment or other service relationship (for any reason whatsoever, whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or determined by the Company, your right to vest in the RSUs under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively providing services and will not be extended by any notice period (  e.g  ., active services would not include any contractual notice period or any period of "garden leave" or similar period mandated under employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing services for purposes of your RSUs (including whether you may still be considered to be providing services while on a leave of absence). 
       
           (vi) 
    You agree that the Company may recover any incentive-based compensation received by you under this Agreement if such recovery is pursuant to a clawback or recoupment policy approved by the Committee, even if approved subsequent to the date of this Agreement. 
       
           (i) 
    The following events shall not be deemed a termination of employment: 
       
           (i) 
    A transfer of you from the Company to a subsidiary, or vice versa, or from one subsidiary to another; and 
       
           (ii) 
    A leave of absence from which you return to active service for any purpose approved by the Company or a subsidiary in writing. 
       
  Any failure to return to active service with the Company or a subsidiary at the end of an approved leave of absence as described herein shall be deemed a voluntary termination of employment effective on the date the approved leave of absence ends, subject to applicable law and any RSUs that are unvested as of the date your employment terminates shall be forfeited subject to Section 2(c).  During a leave of absence as provided for in (ii) above, although you will be considered to have been continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary and not to have had a termination of employment under this Section 2, the Committee may specify that such leave of absence period approved for your personal reasons (and provided for by any applicable law) shall not be counted in determining the period of employment for purposes of the vesting of the RSUs.  In such case, the Vesting Dates for unvested RSUs shall be extended by the length of any such leave of absence.  
    
           (j) 
    As more fully provided for in the Plan, notwithstanding any provision herein, in any Award or in the Plan to the contrary, the terms of any Award shall be limited to those terms permitted under Code Section 409A including all applicable regulations and administrative guidance thereunder ( Section 409A ), and any terms not permitted under Section 409A shall be automatically modified and limited to the extent necessary to conform with Section 409A, but only to the extent such modification or limitation is permitted under Section 409A. 
       
    3 

3. 
    NON-COMPETITION AND NON-SOLICITATION AGREEMENT AND COMPANY RIGHT TO INJUNCTIVE RELIEF, DAMAGES, RECISSION, FORFEITURE AND OTHER REMEDIES    
       
  You acknowledge that your continued employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company and/or the grant of RSUs pursuant to this Agreement is sufficient consideration for this Agreement, including, without limitation, all applicable restrictions imposed on you by this Section 3. 
    
           (a) 
    Confidentiality Obligations and Agreement  . By accepting this Award Agreement, you agree and/or reaffirm the terms of all agreements related to treatment of Confidential Information that you signed at the inception of or during your employment, the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference.  This includes, but is not limited to, use or disclosure of any BMS Confidential Information, Proprietary Information, or Trade Secrets to third parties.  Confidential Information, Proprietary Information, and Trade secrets include, but are not limited to, any information gained in the   course   of your employment with the Company that is marked as confidential or could reasonably be expected to harm the Company if disclosed to third parties, including without limitation, any information that could reasonably be expected to aid a competitor or potential competitor in making inferences regarding the nature of the Company s business activities, where such inferences could reasonably be expected to allow such competitor to compete more effectively with the Company.   You agree that you will not remove or disclose Company Confidential Information, Proprietary Information or Trade Secrets.  Unauthorized removal includes forwarding or downloading confidential information to personal email or other electronic media and/or copying the information to personal unencrypted thumb drives, cloud storage or drop box.    Immediately upon termination of your employment for any reason, you will return to the Company all of the Company s confidential and other business materials that you have or that are in your possession or control and all copies thereof, including all tangible embodiments thereof, whether in hard copy or electronic format and you shall not retain any versions thereof on any personal computer or any other media (  e.g.  , flash drives, thumb drives, external hard drives and the like). Nothing in this paragraph or Agreement limits or prohibits your right to report potential violations of law , rules, or regulations to, or communicate with, cooperate with, testify before, or otherwise assist in an investigation or proceeding by, any government agency or entity, or engage in any other conduct that is required or protected by law or regulation, and you are not required to obtain the prior authorization of the Company to do so and are not required to notify the Company that you have done so.    
       
           (b) 
    Inventions  . To the extent permitted by local law, you agree and/or reaffirm the terms of all agreements related to inventions that you signed at the inception of or during your employment, and agree to promptly disclose and assign to the Company all of your interest in any and all inventions, discoveries, improvements and business or marketing concepts related to the current or contemplated business or activities of the Company, and which are conceived or made by you, either alone or in conjunction with others, at any time or place during the period you are employed by the Company. Upon request of the Company, including after your termination, you agree to execute, at the Company s expense, any and all applications, assignments, or other documents which the Company shall determine necessary to apply for and obtain letters patent to protect the Company s interest in such inventions, discoveries, and improvements and to cooperate in good faith in any legal proceedings to protect the Company s intellectual property. 
       
           (c) 
    Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Related Covenants  .  By accepting this Agreement, you agree to the restrictive covenants outlined in this section unless expressly prohibited by local law or as follows:  The post-termination non-compete restrictions outlined in subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (v) of this Section 3(c) do not apply to employees who are, at the time of termination from employment by BMS, assigned to work for BMS resident full-time in the States of California or North Dakota, except that, should said employee accept employment outside California or North Dakota, all restrictions in Section 3(c), including, but not limited to, those pertaining to post-termination activities, shall be fully enforceable. There are no exemptions for any Award recipients (including employee residents of the States of California and North Dakota) regarding non-compete provisions while employed at the Company or from subparagraphs (iii), (iv) and (vi) of this Section 3(c) during the entire Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period. 
       
  Given the extent and nature of the confidential information that you have obtained or will obtain during the course of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, it would be inevitable or, at the least, substantially probable that such confidential information would be disclosed or utilized by you should you obtain employment from, or otherwise become associated with, an entity or person that is engaged in a business or enterprise that directly competes with the Company.  Even if not inevitable, it would be impossible or impracticable for the Company to monitor your strict compliance with your confidentiality obligations.  Consequently, you agree that you will not, directly or indirectly: 
    
           (i) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period (as defined below), own or have any financial interest in a Competitive Business (as defined below), except that nothing in this clause shall prevent you from owning one per cent or less of the outstanding securities of any entity whose securities are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange (including NASDAQ) or an equivalent foreign exchange; 
       4 

(ii) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, whether or not for compensation, either on your own behalf or as an employee, officer, agent, consultant, director, owner, partner, joint venturer, shareholder, investor, or in any other capacity, be actively connected with a Competitive Business or otherwise advise or assist a Competitive Business with regard to any product, investigational compound, technology, service, line of business, department or business unit that competes with any product, technology, service, line of business, department or business unit with which you worked or about which you became familiar as a result of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, after your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company terminates for any reason, you may be affiliated with a Competitive Business provided that your affiliation does not involve any product, investigational compound, technology or service, that competes with any product, investigational compound, technology or service with which you were involved within the last twelve months of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, including any product, investigational compound, technology or service which the Company is developing and of which you had knowledge, and you and the Competing Business provide the Company written assurances of this fact prior to your commencing such affiliation; 
       
           (iii) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, employ, solicit for employment, solicit, induce, encourage, or participate in soliciting, inducing or encouraging any Company employee who is employed by the Company or who was employed by the Company within the twelve months preceding the termination of your employment with the Company for any reason, to terminate or reduce his or her or its relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates, successors or assigns (the  Related Parties  
       
           (iv) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, solicit, induce, encourage, or appropriate or attempt to solicit, divert or appropriate, by use of Confidential Information or otherwise, any existing or prospective customer, vendor or supplier of the Company or any Related Parties to terminate, cancel or otherwise reduce its relationship with the Company or any Related Parties; 
       
           (v) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, contact, call upon or solicit any existing customer of the Company or its Related Parties, or prospective customer of the Company or its Related Parties, that you became aware of or was introduced to in the course of your duties for the Company or its Related Parties, or otherwise divert or take away from the Company or its Related Parties the business of any current or prospective customer of the Company or its Related Parties; or 
       
           (vi) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, engage in any activity that is harmful to the interests of the Company or its Related Parties, including, without limitation, any conduct during the term of your employment that violates the Company s Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics, securities trading policy and other policies.    
       
           (d) 
    Rescission, Forfeiture and Other Remedies  .  If the Company determines that you have violated any applicable provisions of Section 3(c) above during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, in addition to injunctive relief and damages, you agree and covenant that: 
       
           (i) 
    any unvested portion of the RSUs shall be immediately rescinded; 
       
           (ii) 
    you shall automatically forfeit any rights you may have with respect to the RSUs as of the date of such determination; 
       
           (iii) 
    if any part of the RSUs vests within the twelve-month period immediately preceding a violation of Section 3(c) above (or following the date of any such violation), upon the Company s demand, you shall immediately deliver to it a certificate or certificates for shares of the Company s Common Stock that you acquired upon settlement of such RSUs (or an equivalent number of other shares); and 
       
           (iv) 
    the foregoing remedies set forth in this Section 3(d) shall not be the Company s exclusive remedies.  The Company reserves all other rights and remedies available to it at law or in equity. 
       
           (e) 
    Definitions  .  For purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply: 
       
           (i) 
     Competitive Business  means any business that is engaged in or is about to become engaged in the development, production or sale of any product, process or service concerning the treatment of any disease, which product, process or service resembles or competes with any product, process or service that was sold by, or in development at, the Company or a subsidiary of the Company during your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. 
       
    5 

(ii) 
    Because of the global nature of the Company s business, it is agreed that the restrictions set forth above shall apply in the  Restricted Area,  defined as including without limitation the continent, country and the geographic regions where you worked in and were responsible for while employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, and any other geographic area (country, province, state, city or other political subdivision) in which the Company or a subsidiary of the Company is engaged in business and/or is otherwise selling products or services at the time you ceased working for the Company or a subsidiary of the Company;  
       
           (A) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines the foregoing geographic scope is unenforceable, the  Restricted Area  shall be defined as the continent, country and the geographic regions where you worked and were responsible for while employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company;   
              (B) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines that the foregoing geographic scope is unenforceable, the  Restricted Area  shall be defined as the country in which you worked; 
              (C) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines that the foregoing geographic scope is unenforceable, the  Restricted Area  shall be defined as the geographic regions that you serviced and were responsible for while employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. 
       
           (iii) 
    The  Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period  shall be the period during which Employee is employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company and   twelve (12) months   after the end of Employee s term of employment with and/or work for the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for any reason, (e.g., restriction applies regardless of the reason for termination and includes voluntary and involuntary termination) (hereinafter  Termination Date  
       
           (A) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines that such period is unenforceable, the  Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period  shall be the period of your employment and an additional   eleven (11) months   after your employment Termination Date with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for any reason; 
              (B) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines that such period is unenforceable, the  Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period  shall be the period of your employment and an additional   ten (10) months   after your employment Termination Date with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for any reason; 
              (C) 
    provided further, in the event that the Company or a subsidiary of the Company files an action to enforce rights arising out of this Agreement, the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period shall be extended for all periods of time in which you are determined by the Court or other authority to have been in violation of the provisions of Section 3(c). 
       
           (f) 
    Severability  .  You acknowledge and agree that the period, scope and geographic areas of restriction imposed upon you by this Section 3 are fair and reasonable and are reasonably required for the protection of the Company.  In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions will not in any way be affected or impaired and this Agreement shall nevertheless continue to be valid and enforceable as though the invalid provisions were not part of this Agreement.  If the final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority declares that any term or provision hereof is invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the parties agree that the court making such determination shall have the power to reduce the scope, duration, area or applicability of the term or provision, to delete specific words or phrases, or to replace any invalid, illegal or unenforceable term or provision with a term or provision that is valid, legal and enforceable to the maximum extent permissible under law and that comes closest to expressing the intention of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable term or provision.  You acknowledge and agree that your covenants under this Agreement are ancillary to your employment relationship with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, but shall be independent of any other contractual relationship between you and the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.  Consequently, the existence of any claim or cause of action that you may have against the Company or a subsidiary of the Company shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement of this Agreement by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, nor an excuse for noncompliance with this Agreement. 
       6 

(g) 
    Additional Remedies  .  You acknowledge and agree that any violation by you of this paragraph will cause irreparable harm to the Company and its Related Parties and the Company cannot be adequately compensated for such violation by damages.  Accordingly, if you violate or threaten to violate this Agreement, then, in addition to any other rights or remedies that the Company may have in law or in equity, the Company shall be entitled, without the posting of a bond or other security, to obtain an injunction to stop or prevent such violation, including but not limited to obtaining a temporary or preliminary injunction from a Delaware court pursuant Section 1(a) of the Mutual Arbitration Agreement and Section 14 of this Agreement. You further agree that if the Company incurs legal fees or costs in enforcing this Agreement, you will reimburse the Company for such fees and costs. 
       
           (h) 
    Binding Obligations  .  These obligations shall be binding both upon you, your assigns, executors, administrators and legal representatives. At the inception of or during the course of your employment, you may have executed agreements that contain similar terms. Those agreements remain in full force and effect.  In the event that there is a conflict between the terms of those agreements and this Agreement, this Agreement will control. 
       
           (i) 
    Enforcement  .  The Company retains discretion regarding whether or not to enforce the terms of the covenants contained in this Section 3 and its decision not to do so in your instance or anyone s case shall not be considered a waiver of the Company s right to do so.  
       
           (j)  
    Duty to Notify  .  During your employment with the Company and for a period of 12 months after your termination of employment from the Company, you shall communicate your obligations under this Agreement to each subsequent employer.  In addition, you shall advise the Company of the name and address of your intended future employer, including the title of the position accepted with the subsequent employer.  While employed at the Company, you are required to provide this information immediately upon acceptance of a position with a new employer.  Once terminated from the Company, upon resignation from any subsequent employer.  The Company shall have the right to advise any subsequent employer of your obligations hereunder. 
       
  4.      RESPONSIBILITY FOR TAXES 
    
  You acknowledge that, regardless of any action taken by the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company, including your employer ( Employer ), the ultimate liability for all income tax (including federal, state, local and non-U.S. taxes), social security, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you or deemed by the Company or the Employer to be an appropriate charge to you even if legally applicable to the Company or the Employer ( Tax-Related Items ) is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer.  You further acknowledge that the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate and/or the Employer: (a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the RSUs, including the grant of the RSUs, the vesting of RSUs, the conversion of the RSUs into shares of Common Stock or the receipt of an equivalent cash payment, the subsequent sale of any shares of Common Stock acquired at settlement and the receipt of any dividends; and, (b) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the RSUs to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result.  Further, if you are subject to Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
    
  Prior to the relevant taxable event, you agree to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items.  In this regard, by your acceptance of the RSUs, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy their withholding obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: 
    
           (a) 
    withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer; or 
              (b) 
    withholding from proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired upon settlement of the RSUs either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent); or 
              (c) 
    withholding in shares of Common Stock to be issued upon settlement of the RSUs;  
       
  provided, however, if you are a Section 16 officer of the Company under the Exchange Act, then the Company will withhold shares of Common Stock upon the relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, unless the use of such withholding method is problematic under applicable tax or securities law or has materially adverse accounting consequences, in which case, the obligation for Tax-Related Items may be satisfied by one or a combination of methods (a) and (b) above. 
    
    7 

Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates, in which case you will receive a refund of any over-withheld amount in cash and will have no entitlement to the Common Stock equivalent.  If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding in shares of Common Stock, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of shares of Common Stock subject to the vested RSUs, notwithstanding that a number of the shares of Common Stock are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items. 
    
  Finally, you agree to pay to the Company or the Employer, including through withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer, any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the shares or the proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock, if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items. 
    
  Notwithstanding anything in this Section 4 to the contrary, to avoid a prohibited acceleration under Section 409A, if shares of Common Stock subject to RSUs will be sold on your behalf (or withheld) to satisfy any Tax-Related Items arising prior to the date of settlement of the RSUs, then to the extent that any portion of the RSUs that is considered nonqualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A, then the number of such shares sold on your behalf (or withheld) shall not exceed the number of shares that equals the liability for Tax-Related Items with respect to such shares. 
    
  5.      DIVIDENDS AND ADJUSTMENTS 
    
           (a) 
    Dividends or dividend equivalents are not paid, accrued or accumulated on RSUs during the Restricted Period, except as provided in Section 5(b). 
       
           (b) 
    The number of your RSUs and/or other related terms shall be appropriately adjusted, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of your rights with respect to RSUs, to reflect any changes in the outstanding shares of Common Stock resulting from any event referred to in Plan Section 11(c) or any other  equity restructuring  as defined in FASB ASC Topic 718. 
       
  6.      EFFECT ON OTHER BENEFITS 
    
  In no event shall the value, at any time, of the RSUs or any other payment under this Agreement be included as compensation or earnings for purposes of any other compensation, retirement, or benefit plan offered to employees of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company unless otherwise specifically provided for in such plan.  The RSUs and the underlying shares of Common Stock (or their cash equivalent), and the income and value of the same, are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes including, but not limited to, calculation of any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy or end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits, or similar payments. 
    
  7.      ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NATURE OF PLAN AND RSUs 
    
  In accepting the RSUs, you acknowledge, understand and agree that: 
    
           (a) 
    The Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, to the extent permitted by the Plan;  
       
           (b) 
    The Award of RSUs is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of RSUs, or benefits in lieu of RSUs even if RSUs have been awarded in the past;  
       
           (c) 
    All decisions with respect to future awards of RSUs or other awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company; 
       
           (d) 
    Your participation in the Plan is voluntary;  
       
           (e) 
    The RSUs and the Common Stock subject to the RSUs are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation;  
       
           (f) 
    Unless otherwise agreed with the Company, the RSUs and the shares of Common Stock subject to the RSUs, and the income and value of the same, are not granted as consideration for, or in connection with, the service you may provide as a director of a subsidiary or an affiliate of the Company; 
       
           (g) 
    The future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with certainty;  
       8 

(h) 
    No claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the forfeiture of RSUs, resulting from termination of your employment or other service relationship with the Company, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), and in consideration of the grant of the RSUs to which you are otherwise not entitled, you irrevocably agree never to institute any claim against the Company, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or the Employer, waive your ability, if any, to bring such claim, and release the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate and/or the Employer from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by participating in the Plan, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agree to execute any and all documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claim; 
       
           (i) 
    Unless otherwise provided in the Plan or by the Company in its discretion, the RSUs and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have the RSUs or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the shares of the Company; and 
       
           (j) 
    The following provisions apply only if you are providing services outside the United States: (i) the Award and the shares of Common Stock subject to the RSUs are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose; and (ii) neither the Company, the Employer nor any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between your local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the RSUs or of any amounts due to you pursuant to the settlement of the RSUs or the subsequent sale of any shares of Common Stock acquired upon settlement. 
       
  8.      NO ADVICE REGARDING GRANT 
    
  The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your participation in the Plan or your acquisition or sale of the underlying shares of Common Stock.  You are hereby advised to consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan. 
    
  9.      RIGHT TO CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT 
    
  Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or any specific position or level of employment with the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or affect in any way the right of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company to terminate your employment without prior notice at any time for any reason or no reason. 
    
  10.      ADMINISTRATION; UNFUNDED OBLIGATIONS 
    
  The Committee shall have full authority and discretion, subject only to the express terms of the Plan, to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this Agreement, and all such Committee determinations shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate, you, and all interested parties.  Any provision for distribution in settlement of your RSUs and other obligations hereunder shall be by means of bookkeeping entries on the books of the Company and shall not create in you or any beneficiary any right to, or claim against any, specific assets of the Company, nor result in the creation of any trust or escrow account for you or any beneficiary.  You and any of your beneficiaries entitled to any settlement or distribution hereunder shall be a general creditor of the Company. 
    
  11.      DEEMED ACCEPTANCE     
    
  You are required to accept the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement prior to the first vest date in order for you to receive the Award granted to you hereunder.  If you wish to decline this Award, you must reject this Agreement prior to the first vest date.  For your benefit, if you have not rejected the Agreement prior to the first vest date, you will be deemed to have automatically accepted this Award and all the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.  Deemed acceptance will allow the shares to be released to you in a timely manner and once released, you waive any right to assert that you have not accepted the terms hereof. 
    
  12.      AMENDMENT TO PLAN 
    
  This Agreement shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, as amended from time to time, except that, subject to Sections 20, 22 and 24, and the provisions of the Addendum hereto, the Award which is the subject of this Agreement may not be materially adversely affected by any amendment or termination of the Plan approved after the Award Date without your written consent. 
    9 

13.      SEVERABILITY AND VALIDITY 
    
  The various provisions of this Agreement are severable, and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.  
    
  14.      GOVERNING LAW, JURISDICTION AND VENUE 
    
  This Agreement and Award grant shall be governed by the substantive laws (but not the choice of law rules) of the State of Delaware.  The forum in which disputes arising under this RSU grant and Agreement shall be decided depends on whether you are subject to the Mutual Arbitration Agreement.  
    
           (a) 
    If you are subject to the Mutual Arbitration Agreement, any dispute that arises under this RSU grant or Agreement shall be governed by the Mutual Arbitration Agreement.  Any application to a court under Section 1(a) of the Mutual Arbitration Agreement for temporary or preliminary injunctive relief in aid of arbitration or for the maintenance of the status quo pending arbitration shall exclusively be brought and conducted in the courts of Wilmington, Delaware, or the federal courts for the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, and no other courts where this RSU grant is made and/or performed.  The parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware for purposes of any such application for injunctive relief. 
       
           (b) 
    If you are not subject to the Mutual Arbitration Agreement, this Agreement and Award grant shall be governed by the substantive laws (but not the choice of law rules) of the State of Delaware.  For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises under this RSU grant or Agreement, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, agree that such litigation shall exclusively be conducted in the courts of Wilmington, Delaware, or the federal courts for the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, and no other courts where this RSU grant is made and/or performed. 
       
  15.      SUCCESSORS 
    
  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors, assigns, and heirs of the respective parties. 
    
  16.      DATA PRIVACY 
    
  You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. 
    
  You understand that the Company, any subsidiary and/or the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security number or other identification number (e.g., resident registration number), salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor ( Data ), for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan. 
    
  You understand that Data may be transferred to Fidelity, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which assists in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  You understand that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipient's country (e.g. the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.  In this case, appropriate safeguards will be taken by the Company to ensure that your Data is processed with an adequate level of protection and in compliance with applicable local laws and regulation (especially through contractual clauses like European Model Clauses for European countries).     You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative.  You authorize the Company, Fidelity and other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the shares of Common Stock received upon vesting of the RSUs may be deposited.  You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan.  You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting your local human resources representative.  Further, you understand that you are providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis.  If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant  
    10 

you RSUs or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards.  Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan.  For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.  
    
  17.      ELECTRONIC DELIVERY AND ACCEPTANCE 
    
  The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means.  You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic systems established and maintained by the Company or a third-party designated by the Company. 
    
  18.      INSIDER TRADING/MARKET ABUSE LAWS 
    
  You acknowledge that, depending on your country of residence, you may be subject to insider trading restrictions and/or market abuse laws, which may affect your ability to acquire or sell shares of Common Stock or rights to shares of Common Stock (  e.g  ., RSUs) under the Plan during such times as you are considered to have  inside information  regarding the Company (as defined by the laws in your country).  Any restrictions under these laws or regulations are separate from and in addition to any restrictions that may be imposed under any applicable Company insider trading policy.  You acknowledge that it is your responsibility to comply with any applicable restrictions, and you should speak to your personal advisor on this matter. 
    
  19.      LANGUAGE    
    
  If you have received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control. 
    
  20.      COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS 
    
  Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan or this Agreement, unless there is an available exemption from any registration, qualification or other legal requirement applicable to the shares of Common Stock, you understand that the Company will not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock pursuant to the vesting of the RSUs, if the issuance of such Common Stock shall constitute a violation by you or the Company of any provision of law or regulation of any governmental authority.  Further, you agree that the Company shall have unilateral authority to amend the Plan and the Agreement without your consent to the extent necessary to comply with securities or other laws applicable to issuance of shares.  Any determination by the Company in this regard shall be final, binding and conclusive. 
    
  21.      ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND NO ORAL MODIFICATION OR WAIVER 
    
  This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties, provided that, if you are subject to the Mutual Arbitration Agreement, then the Mutual Arbitration Agreement is hereby incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement.  Subject to Sections 20, 22 and 24, and the provisions of the Addendum, this Agreement shall not be modified or amended except in writing duly signed by the parties, except that the Company may adopt a modification or amendment to the Agreement that is not materially adverse to you in writing signed only by the Company.  Any waiver of any right or failure to perform under this Agreement shall be in writing signed by the party granting the waiver and shall not be deemed a waiver of any subsequent failure to perform. 
    
  22.      ADDENDUM 
    
  Your RSUs shall be subject to any special provisions set forth in the Addendum to this Agreement for your country, if any.  If you relocate to one of the countries included in the Addendum, the special provisions for such country shall apply to you, without your consent, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such provisions is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons.  The Addendum, if any, constitutes part of this Agreement. 
    
  23.      FOREIGN ASSET/ACCOUNT REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND EXCHANGE CONTROLS 
    
  Your country may have certain foreign asset and/or foreign account reporting requirements and exchange controls which may affect your ability to acquire or hold shares of Common Stock under the Plan or cash received from participating in the Plan (including from any dividends paid on shares of Common Stock sale proceeds resulting from the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan) in a brokerage or bank account outside your country.  You may be required to report such accounts, assets or transactions to the tax or other authorities in your country.  You also may be required to repatriate sale proceeds or other funds received as a result of your participation in the Plan to your country through a designated bank or broker within a certain time after receipt.  You acknowledge that it is your responsibility to be compliant with such regulations, and you should consult your personal legal advisor for any details. 
    
    11 

24.      IMPOSITION OF OTHER REQUIREMENTS 
    
  The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the RSUs and on any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.  

For the Company 
        
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 

By 

I have read this Agreement in its entirety.  I understand that this Award has been granted to provide a means for me to acquire and/or expand an ownership position in Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.  I acknowledge and agree that sales of shares will be subject to the Company's policies regulating trading by employees.  In accepting this Award, I hereby agree that Fidelity, or such other vendor as the Company may choose to administer the Plan, may provide the Company with any and all account information for the administration of this Award. 
    
       I hereby agree to all the terms, restrictions and conditions set forth in the Agreement, including, but not limited to, post-employment obligations related to non-competition and non-solicitation. 

12 

Addendum 
    
  BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY 
  SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR RSUs IN CERTAIN COUNTRIES 
    
  Unless otherwise provided below, capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Agreement.  This Addendum includes special country-specific terms that apply if you are residing and/or working in one of the countries listed below. This Addendum is part of the Agreement.   
  This Addendum also includes information of which you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Plan.  For example, certain individual exchange control reporting requirements may apply upon vesting of the RSUs and/or sale of Common Stock.  The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws in effect in the respective countries as of January 2016 and is provided for informational purposes.  Such laws are often complex and change frequently, and results may be different based on the particular facts and circumstances.  As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you do not rely on the information noted herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at the time your RSUs vest or are settled, or you sell shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan. 
  In addition, the information is general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of any particular result.  Accordingly, you should seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation. 
  Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you currently are residing and/or working, transfer employment after the RSUs are granted to you, or are considered a resident of another country for local law purposes, the information contained herein for the country you are residing and/or working in at the time of grant may not be applicable to you, and the Company shall, in its discretion, determine to what extent the terms and conditions contained herein shall be applicable to you.  If you transfer residency and/or employment to another country or are considered a resident of another country listed in the Addendum after the RSUs are granted to you, the terms and/or information contained for that new country (rather than the original grant country) may be applicable to you.   
  All Countries 
  Retirement.   The following provision supplements Section 2 of the Agreement: 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company receives a legal opinion that there has been a legal judgment and/or legal development in your jurisdiction that likely would result in the favorable treatment that applies to the RSUs when you attain age 65 or in the event of your Retirement being deemed unlawful and/or discriminatory, the provisions of Section 2 regarding the treatment of the RSUs when you attain age 65 or in the event of your Retirement shall not be applicable to you. 
  Algeria 
  Exchange Control Information.    Proceeds from the settlement of RSUs, the sale of Common Stock and the receipt of any dividends must be repatriated to Algeria. 
  Argentina 
  Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgement.    This provision supplements Section 7 of the Agreement: 
  By accepting the RSUs, you acknowledge and agree that the grant of RSUs is made by the Company (not the Employer) in its sole discretion and that the value of the RSUs or any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan shall not constitute salary or wages for any purpose under Argentine labor law, including, but not limited to, the calculation of (i) any labor benefits including, but not limited to, vacation pay, thirteenth salary, compensation in lieu of notice, annual bonus, disability, and leave of absence payments, etc., or (ii) any termination or severance indemnities or similar payments.    
  If, notwithstanding the foregoing, any benefits under the Plan are considered salary or wages for any purpose under Argentine labor law, you acknowledge and agree that such benefits shall not accrue more frequently than on each vesting date. 
    13 

Securities Law Information.    Neither the RSUs nor the underlying shares of Common Stock are publicly offered or listed on any stock exchange in Argentina.  The offer is private and not subject to the supervision of any Argentine governmental authority. 
  Exchange Control Information  .  You must comply with any and all Argentine currency exchange restrictions, approvals and reporting requirements in connection with your Award.  
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Argentinian residents must report any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan and held by the resident as of December 31st of each year to the Argentine tax authorities on their annual tax return for that year.  
    
  Australia  
  Compliance with Laws.    Notwithstanding anything else in the Agreement, you will not be entitled to, and shall not claim, any benefit under the Plan if the provision of such benefit would give rise to a breach of Part 2D.2 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), any other provision of that Act, or any other applicable statute, rule or regulation which limits or restricts the giving of such benefits.  Further, the Employer is under no obligation to seek or obtain the approval of its shareholders in general meeting for the purpose of overcoming any such limitation or restriction. 
  Austria  
  Exchange Control Information.    If you hold shares of Common Stock under the Plan outside of Austria (even if you hold them outside of Austria at a branch of an Austrian bank), you may be required to submit a report to the Austrian National Bank as follows: (i) on a quarterly basis if the value of the Common Stock as of any given quarter meets or exceeds  30,000,000; and (ii) on an annual basis if the value of the Common Stock as of December 31 meets or exceeds  5,000,000.  The deadline to file the quarterly report is the 15th day of the month following the end of the respective quarter.  The deadline to file the annual report is January 31 of the following year. 
  When shares of Common Stock are sold, there may be exchange control obligations if the cash proceeds from the sale are held outside Austria.  If the transaction volume of all your cash accounts abroad meets or exceeds  10,000,000, the movements and the balance of all accounts must be reported monthly, as of the last day of the month, on or before the fifteenth day of the following month.  If the transaction value of all cash accounts abroad is less than  10,000,000, no ongoing reporting requirements apply.  
  Belgium 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you are a Belgian resident, you are required to report any security or bank account (including brokerage accounts) you maintain outside of Belgium on your annual tax return. In a separate report, you will be required to provide the National Bank of Belgium with certain details regarding such foreign accounts (including the account number, bank name and country in which any such account was opened).  The forms to complete this report are available on the website of the National Bank of Belgium. 
  Brazil 
  Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgement.    This provision supplements Section 7 of the Agreement: 
  By accepting the RSUs, you acknowledge and agree that (i) you are making an investment decision, (ii) shares of Common Stock will be issued to you only if the vesting conditions are met and you meet the employment conditions during the Restricted Period and (iii) the value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is not fixed and may increase or decrease in value over the Restricted Period.  
  Compliance with Laws.    By accepting the RSUs, you agree that you will comply with Brazilian law when you vest in the RSUs and sell shares of Common Stock. You also agree to report and pay any and all taxes associated with the vesting of the RSUs, the sale of the shares of Common Stock acquired pursuant to the Plan and the receipt of any dividends.  
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting.    You must prepare and submit a declaration of assets and rights held outside of Brazil to the Central Bank on an annual basis if you hold assets or rights valued at more than US$100,000.  Quarterly reporting is required if such amount exceeds US$100,000,000.  The assets and rights that must be reported include shares of Common Stock.   
    14 

Tax on Financial Transaction (IOF)  .  Repatriation of funds (  e.g.  , sale proceeds) into Brazil and the conversion of USD into BRL associated with such fund transfers may be subject to the Tax on Financial Transactions.  It is your responsibility to comply with any applicable Tax on Financial Transactions arising from your participation in the Plan.   
  Bulgaria 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you make any payments to or receive any payments from abroad related to the Plan and the respective amount exceeds BGN 100,000, you should fill in and submit to the respective local bank a specific statistical form regarding the source of the income prior to the ordering of the payment or within thirty (30) days of receipt of a notice by the bank that the amount is in your bank account. 
  The Participant may also be required to report annually to the Bulgarian National Bank, as of March 31 of each year, details of the Participant s receivables in bank accounts held abroad as well as the Participant s securities held abroad if the aggregate value of such receivables and securities is equal to or exceeds BGN 50,000 as of December 31 of the previous calendar year. 
  Canada 
  Settlement of RSUs.    Notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, RSUs will be settled in shares of Common Stock only, not cash. 
  Securities Law Information.    You acknowledge and agree that you will sell shares of Common Stock acquired through participation in the Plan only outside of Canada through the facilities of a stock exchange on which the Common Stock is listed.  Currently, the shares of Common Stock are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.  
  Termination of Employment.    This provision replaces the second paragraph of Section 2(h)(v) of the Agreement: 
  In the event of your termination of employment or other service relationship (for any reason whatsoever, whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or the Plan, your right to vest in the RSUs, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of (1) the date upon which your employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries is terminated; (2) the date you are no longer actively employed by or providing services to the Company or any of its subsidiaries; or (3) the date you receive written notice of termination of employment, regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under applicable laws (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer employed or actively providing services for purposes of the RSUs (including whether you may still be considered employed or actively providing services while on a leave of absence). 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You may be required to report your foreign property on Form T1135 (Foreign Income Verification Statement) if the total cost of your foreign property exceeds C$100,000 at any time in the year.  Foreign property includes cash held outside of Canada and shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan, and it may include unvested RSUs.  The Form T1135 must be filed by April 30 of the following year.  When shares of Common Stock are acquired, their cost generally is the adjusted cost base ( ACB ) of the shares of Common Stock.  The ACB would ordinarily equal the fair market value of the shares of Common Stock at the time of acquisition, but if you own other shares of Common Stock of the same company, this ACB may have to be averaged with the ACB of the other shares of Common Stock.  You should consult with your personal tax advisor to determine your reporting requirements. 
  The following provisions apply if you are resident in Quebec: 
  Language Acknowledgment 
  The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this Agreement, including this Addendum, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be provided to them in English. 
  Consentement relatif   la langue utilis e.  Les parties reconnaissent avoir express ment souhait  que la convention ( Agreement ) ainsi que cette Annexe, ainsi que tous les documents, avis et proc dures judiciares,  x cut s, donn s ou intent s en vertu de, ou li s directement ou indirectement   la pr sente convention, soient r dig s en langue anglaise.  
    15 

Data Privacy.    This provision supplements Section 16 of the Agreement: 
  You hereby authorize the Company, the Employer and their representatives to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan.  You further authorize the Company and its subsidiaries to disclose and discuss the Plan with their advisors.  You further authorize the Company and its subsidiaries to record such information and to keep such information in your employee file. 
  Chile 
  Securities Law Information.    The offer of the RSUs constitutes a private offering in Chile effective as of the Award Date.  The offer of RSUs is made subject to general ruling n  336 of the Chilean Superintendence of Securities and Insurance ( SVS ).  The offer refers to securities not registered at the securities registry or at the foreign securities registry of the SVS, and, therefore, such securities are not subject to oversight of the SVS.  Given the RSUs are not registered in Chile, the Company is not required to provide information about the RSUs or shares of Common Stock in Chile.  Unless the RSUs and/or the shares of Common Stock are registered with the SVS, a public offering of such securities cannot be made in Chile. 
  Esta oferta de Unidades de Acciones Restringidas ( RSU ) constituye una oferta privada de valores en Chile y se inicia en la Fecha de la Concesi n.  Esta oferta de RSU se acoge a las disposiciones de la Norma de Car cter General N  336 ( NCG 336 ) de la Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros de Chile ( SVS ).  Esta oferta versa sobre valores no inscritos en el Registro de Valores o en el Registro de Valores Extranjeros que lleva la SVS, por lo que tales valores no est n sujetos a la fiscalizaci n de  sta.  Por tratarse los RSU de valores no registrados en Chile, no existe obligaci n por parte de la Compa  a de entregar en Chile informaci n p blica respecto de los RSU or sus Acciones.  Estos valores no podr n ser objeto de oferta p blica en Chile mientras no sean inscritos en el Registro de Valores correspondiente. 
  Exchange Control Information.    You are responsible for complying with foreign exchange requirements in Chile.  You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding any applicable exchange control obligations prior to vesting in the RSUs or receiving proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired at vesting or cash dividends.   
  You are not required to repatriate funds obtained from the sale of shares of Common Stock or the receipt of any dividends.  However, if you decide to repatriate such funds, you must do so through the Formal Exchange Market if the amount of funds exceeds US$10,000.  In such case, you must report the payment to a commercial bank or registered foreign exchange office receiving the funds.  If your aggregate investments held outside of Chile exceed US$5,000,000 (including shares of Common Stock and any cash proceeds obtained under the Plan) in the relevant calendar year, you must report the investments quarterly to the Central Bank.  Annex 3.1 of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations must be used to file this report.  Please note that exchange control regulations in Chile are subject to change. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    The Chilean Internal Revenue Service (   CIRS   ) requires all taxpayers to provide information annually regarding:  (i) the taxes paid abroad which they will use as a credit against Chilean income taxes, and (ii) the results of foreign investments.  These annual reporting obligations must be complied with by submitting a sworn statement setting forth this information before March 15 of each year.  The forms to be used to submit the sworn statement are Tax Form 1853  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Credits for Taxes Paid Abroad  and Tax Form 1851  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Investments Held Abroad.   If you are not a Chilean citizen and have been a resident in Chile for less than three (3) years, you are exempt from the requirement to file Tax Form 1853.  These statements must be submitted electronically through the CIRS website:    www.sii.cl  .  
    
  Investments abroad also must be registered with the CIRS for you to be entitled to a foreign tax credit for any tax withheld on dividends abroad, if applicable, and such registration also provides evidence of the acquisition price of the shares of Common Stock (which will be zero) which you will need when the shares of Common Stock are sold.  You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding how to register with the CIRS. 
  China  
  The following provisions apply if you are subject to the exchange control regulations in China, as determined by the Company in its sole discretion: 
    16 

Sales of Shares of Common Stock.    To comply with exchange control regulations in China, you agree that the Company is authorized to force the sale of shares of Common Stock to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the RSUs at any time (including immediately upon vesting or after termination of your employment, as described below), and you expressly authorize the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of such shares of Common Stock.  You agree to sign any agreements, forms and/or consents that may be reasonably requested by the Company (or the designated broker) to effectuate the sale of the shares of Common Stock and shall otherwise cooperate with the Company with respect to such matters, provided that you shall not be permitted to exercise any influence over how, when or whether the sales occur.  You acknowledge that the Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the shares of Common Stock at any particular price.   
  Upon the sale of the shares of Common Stock, the Company agrees to pay the cash proceeds from the sale of Common Stock (less any applicable Tax-Related Items, brokerage fees or commissions) to you in accordance with applicable exchange control laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the restrictions set forth in this Addendum for China below under  Exchange Control Information.   Due to fluctuations in the Common Stock price and/or applicable exchange rates between the vesting date and (if later) the date on which the shares of Common Stock are sold, the amount of proceeds ultimately distributed to you may be more or less than the market value of the shares of Common Stock on the vesting date (which typically is the amount relevant to determining your Tax-Related Items liability).  You understand and agree that the Company is not responsible for the amount of any loss you may incur and that the Company assumes no liability for any fluctuations in the Common Stock price and/or any applicable exchange rate. 
  Treatment of Shares of Common Stock and RSUs Upon Termination of Employment.    Due to exchange control regulations in China, you understand and agree that any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan and held by you in your brokerage account must be sold no later than the last business day of the month following the month of your termination of employment, or within such other period as determined by the Company or required by the China State Administration of Foreign Exchange ( SAFE ) (the  Mandatory Sale Date ).  This includes any portion of shares of Common Stock that vest upon your termination of employment.  For example, if your termination of employment occurs on March 14, 2016, then the Mandatory Sale Date will be April 30, 2016.  You understand that any shares of Common Stock held by you that have not been sold by the Mandatory Sale Date will automatically be sold by the Company s designated broker at the Company s direction (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent), as described under "Sales of Shares of Common Stock" above.  
  If all or a portion of your RSUs become distributable upon your termination of employment or at some time following your termination of employment, that portion will vest and become distributable immediately upon termination of your employment. Any shares of Common Stock distributed to you according to this paragraph must be sold by the Mandatory Sale Date or will be sold by the Company s designated broker at the Company s direction (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent), as described under "Sales of Shares of Common Stock" above.  You will not continue to vest in RSUs or be entitled to any portion of RSUs after your termination of employment. 
    
  Exchange Control Information  .  You understand and agree that, to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements, you are required to hold any shares of Common Stock to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the RSUs in the account that has been established for you with the Company's designated broker and you acknowledge that you are prohibited from transferring any such shares of Common Stock to another brokerage account.  In addition, you are required to immediately repatriate to China the cash proceeds from the sale of the shares of Common Stock issued upon vesting and settlement of the RSUs and any dividends paid on such shares of Common Stock.  You further understand that such repatriation of the cash proceeds will be effectuated through a special exchange control account established by the Company or its subsidiaries, and you hereby consent and agree that the proceeds may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to you.  The Company may deliver the proceeds to you in U.S. dollars or local currency at the Company s discretion.  If the proceeds are paid in U.S. dollars, you understand that you will be required to set up a U.S. dollar bank account in China so that the proceeds may be deposited into this account. If the proceeds are converted to local currency, there may be delays in delivering the proceeds to you and due to fluctuations in the Common Stock trading price and/or the U.S. dollar/PRC exchange rate between the sale/payment date and (if later) when the proceeds can be converted into local currency, the proceeds that you receive may be more or less than the market value of the Common Stock on the sale/payment date (which is the amount relevant to determining your tax liability).  You agree to bear the risk of any currency fluctuation between the sale/payment date and the date of conversion of the proceeds into local currency.   
  You further agree to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in China. 
    17 

Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    PRC residents are required to report to SAFE details of their foreign financial assets and liabilities, as well as details of any economic transactions conducted with non-PRC residents, either directly or through financial institutions.   Under these rules, you may be subject to reporting obligations for the Common Stock or equity awards, including RSUs, acquired under the Plan and Plan-related transactions.  It is your responsibility to comply with this reporting obligation and you should consult your personal advisor in this regard. 
  Colombia 
  Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgement.    By accepting your Award of RSUs, you acknowledge that pursuant to Article 128 of the Colombia Labor Code, the Plan and related benefits do not constitute a component of  salary  for any purposes. 
  Exchange Control Information.    Investments in assets located outside of Colombia (including Common Stock) are subject to registration with the Central Bank (  Banco de la Rep blica  ) if the aggregate value of such investments is US$500,000 or more (as of December 31 of the applicable calendar year).  Further, upon the sale of any Common Stock that you have registered with the Central Bank, you must cancel the registration by March 31 of the following year.  You may be subject to fines if you fail to cancel such registration.  
  Securities Law Information.    The shares of Common Stock are not and will not be registered with the Colombian registry of publicly traded securities (  Registro Nacional de Valores y Emisores  ) and therefore the shares of Common Stock may not be offered to the public in Colombia.  Nothing in this document should be construed as the making of a public offer of securities in Colombia. 
  Czech Republic  
  Exchange Control Information.    The Czech National Bank may require you to fulfill certain notification duties in relation to the RSUs and the opening and maintenance of a foreign account.  However, because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your personal legal advisor prior to the vesting of the RSUs and the sale of shares of Common Stock to ensure compliance with current regulations.  It is your responsibility to comply with any applicable Czech exchange control laws. 
  Denmark  
  Stock Option Act.    You acknowledge that you have received an Employer Statement in Danish.  Notwithstanding any provisions in the Agreement to the contrary, if you are determined to be an  Employee,  as defined in section 2 of the Danish Act on the Use of Rights to Purchase or Subscribe for Shares etc. in Employment Relationships (the  Stock Option Act ), the treatment of the RSUs upon termination of employment shall be governed by the Stock Option Act.  However, if the provisions in the Agreement or the Plan governing the treatment of the RSUs upon termination of employment are more favorable, the provisions of the Agreement or the Plan will govern. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you establish an account holding shares of Common Stock or an account holding cash outside Denmark, you must report the account to the Danish Tax Administration.  The form may be obtained from a local bank.  Please note that these obligations are separate from and in addition to the obligations described below. 
  Securities/Tax Reporting Information.    If you hold shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan in a brokerage account with a broker or bank outside Denmark, you are required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about the account.  For this purpose, you must file a Form V (Erklaering V) with the Danish Tax Administration.  Both you and the broker or bank must sign the Form V.  By signing the Form V, the broker or bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the shares of Common Stock in the account. In the event that the applicable broker or bank with which the account is held does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to report, you acknowledge that you are solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account and any shares of Common Stock acquired at vesting and held in such account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of your annual income tax return.  By signing the Form V, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.  A sample of the Form V can be found at the following website:   www.skat.dk  . 
    18 

In addition, if you open a brokerage account (or a deposit account with a U.S. bank), the brokerage account likely will be treated as a deposit account because cash can be held in the account.  Therefore, you likely must file a Form K  (Erklaering K) with the Danish Tax Administration.  The Form K must be signed both by you and by the applicable broker or bank where the account is held.  By signing the Form K, the broker/bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the account.  In the event that the applicable financial institution (broker or bank) with which the account is held, does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to report, you acknowledge that you are solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of your annual income tax return. By signing the Form K, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.  A sample of the Form K can be found at the following website:   www.skat.dk  . 
  Egypt  
  Exchange Control Information.    If you transfer funds into Egypt in connection with the RSUs, you are required to transfer the funds through a registered bank in Egypt. 
  Estonia 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Finland  
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  France  
  Language Acknowledgement 
  En signant et renvoyant le pr sent document d crivant les termes et conditions de votre attribution, vous confirmez ainsi avoir lu et compris les documents relatifs   cette attribution (le Plan et ce Contrat d Attribution) qui vous ont  t  communiqu s en langue anglaise. 
  By accepting your RSUs, you confirm having read and understood the documents relating to this grant (the Plan and this Agreement) which were provided to you in English. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you hold shares of Common Stock outside of France or maintain a foreign bank account (including accounts that were opened and closed during the tax year), you are required to report such to the French tax authorities when filing your annual tax return.  Failure to comply could trigger significant penalties.  Further, if you have a foreign account balance exceeding  1,000,000, you may have additional monthly reporting obligations.  
  Germany  
  Exchange Control Information.    Cross-border payments in excess of  12,500 must be reported to the German Federal Bank.  From September 2013, the German Federal Bank no longer accepts reports in paper form and all reports must be filed electronically. The electronic  General Statistics Reporting Portal  (  Allgemeines Meldeportal Statistik  ) can be accessed on the German Federal Bank s website:   www.bundesbank.de  . 
  In the event that you make or receive a payment in excess of this amount, you are responsible for complying with applicable reporting requirements.   
  Greece 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    19 

Hong Kong 
  Securities Law Information.      Warning:  The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong.  You are advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer. If you are in any doubt about any of the contents of the Agreement, including this Addendum, or the Plan, or any other incidental communication materials, you should obtain independent professional advice.  The RSUs and any shares of Common Stock issued at vesting do not constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to employees of the Company or its subsidiaries.  The Agreement, including this Addendum, the Plan and other incidental communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a  prospectus  for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong,.  The RSUs are intended only for the personal use of each eligible employee of the Employer, the Company or any subsidiary and may not be distributed to any other person.   
  Settlement of RSUs and Sale of Common Stock.    Notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, RSUs will be settled in shares of Common Stock only, not cash.  In addition, notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, no shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan can be offered to the public or otherwise disposed of prior to six months from the Award Date.  Any shares of Common Stock received at vesting are accepted as a personal investment. 
  Nature of Scheme.    The Company specifically intends that the Plan will not be an occupational retirement scheme for purposes of the Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance ( ORSO ).   
  Hungary  
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  India 
  Exchange Control Information  .  You must repatriate all proceeds received from the sale of shares to India within 90 days of receipt and all proceeds from the receipt of cash dividends with 180 days of receipt.  You must maintain the foreign inward remittance certificate received from the bank where the foreign currency is deposited in the event that the Reserve Bank of India or the Company or the Employer requests proof of repatriation.  It is your responsibility to comply with applicable exchange control laws in India. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information  .  You are required to declare in your annual tax return (a) any foreign assets held by you or (b) any foreign bank accounts for which you have signing authority.  Increased penalties for failing to report these foreign assets/accounts have been introduced.  You are responsible for complying with this reporting obligation and are advised to confer with your personal legal advisor in this regard.  
  Ireland 
  Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and RSUs.    This provision supplements Section 7 of the Agreement: 
    
  In accepting this Agreement, you understand and agree that the benefits received under the Plan will not be taken into account for any redundancy or unfair dismissal claim. 
  Israel  
  Settlement of RSUs and Sale of Common Stock  .  Upon the vesting of the RSUs, you agree to the immediate sale of any shares of Common Stock to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the RSUs.  You further agree that the Company is authorized to instruct its designated broker to assist with the mandatory sale of such shares of Common Stock (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization) and you expressly authorize the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of such shares of Common Stock.  You acknowledge that the Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the shares of Common Stock at any particular price.  Upon the sale of the shares of Common Stock, the Company agrees to pay the cash proceeds from the sale of the Common Stock to you, less any brokerage fees or commissions and subject to any obligation to satisfy Tax-Related Items.  Due to fluctuations in the Common Stock price and/or applicable exchange rates between the vesting date and (if later) the date on which the shares of Common Stock are sold, the amount of proceeds ultimately distributed to you may be more or less than the market value of the shares of Common Stock on the vesting date (which typically is the amount relevant to determining your Tax-Related Items liability).  You understand and agree that the Company is not responsible for the amount of any loss you may incur and that the Company assumes no liability for any fluctuations in the Common Stock price and/or any applicable exchange rate.   
    20 

Italy 
  Data Privacy Notice.    This section replaces Section 16 of the Agreement: 
  You understand that the Company and the Employer are the privacy representatives of the Company in Italy and may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of Common Stock or directorships held in the Company or any subsidiaries, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to Common Stock awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, and that the Company and the Employer will process said data and other data lawfully received from third parties ( Personal Data ) for the exclusive purpose of managing and administering the Plan and complying with applicable laws, regulations and Community legislation. You also understand that providing the Company with Personal Data is mandatory for compliance with laws and is necessary for the performance of the Plan and that your denial to provide Personal Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. You understand that Personal Data will not be publicized, but it may be accessible by the Employer as the privacy representative of the Company and within the Employer s organization by its internal and external personnel in charge of processing, and by Fidelity or any other data processor appointed by the Company. The updated list of processors and of the subjects to which Data are communicated will remain available upon request from the Employer. Furthermore, Personal Data may be transferred to banks, other financial institutions or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan.  You understand that Personal Data may also be transferred to the independent registered public accounting firm engaged by the Company, and also to the legitimate addressees under applicable laws. You further understand that the Company and its subsidiaries will transfer Personal Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of your participation in the Plan, and that the Company and its subsidiaries may each further transfer Personal Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer of Personal Data to Fidelity or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan or any proceeds from the sale of such Common Stock.  Such recipients may receive, possess, use, retain and transfer Personal Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.  You understand that these recipients may be acting as controllers, processors or persons in charge of processing, as the case may be, according to applicable privacy laws, and that they may be located in or outside the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere, in countries that do not provide an adequate level of data protection as intended under Italian privacy law.   
  Should the Company exercise its discretion in suspending all necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan, it will delete Personal Data as soon as it has accomplished all the necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan. 
  You understand that Personal Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Personal Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003. 
  The processing activity, including communication, the transfer of Personal Data abroad, including outside of the European Economic Area, as specified herein and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require your consent thereto as the processing is necessary to performance of law and contractual obligations related to implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  You understand that, pursuant to section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, you have the right at any moment to, including, but not limited to, obtain confirmation that Personal Data exists or not, access, verify its contents, origin and accuracy, delete, update, integrate, correct, block or stop, for legitimate reason, the Personal Data processing. To exercise privacy rights, you should contact the Employer. Furthermore, you are aware that Personal Data will not be used for direct marketing purposes.  In addition, Personal Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting your human resources department. 
  Plan Document Acknowledgment.    By accepting the RSUs, you acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan, reviewed the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum. 
    21 

In addition, you further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and expressly approve without limitation the following clauses in the Agreement:  Section 4 (Responsibility for Taxes); Section 7 (Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and RSUs); Section 8 (No Advice Regarding Grant); Section 9 (Right to Continued Employment); Section 11 (Deemed Acceptance); Section 13 (Severability and Validity); Section 14 (Governing Law, Jurisdiction and Venue); Section 16 (Data Privacy, as replaced by the above provision in this Addendum); Section 17 (Electronic Delivery and Acceptance); Section 18 (Insider Trading/Market Abuse Laws); Section 19 (Language); Section 20 (Compliance with Laws and Regulations); Section 21 (Entire Agreement and No Oral Modification or Waiver); Section 22 (Addendum); Section 23 (Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Requirements and Exchange Controls); and Section 24 (Imposition of Other Requirements). 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you are an Italian resident who, at any time during the fiscal year, holds foreign financial assets (including cash and shares of Common Stock) which may generate income taxable in Italy, you are required to report these assets on your annual tax return for the year during which the assets are held, or on a special form if no tax return is due.  These reporting obligations also apply if you are the beneficial owner of foreign financial assets under Italian money laundering provisions. 
  Tax Information.    Italian residents may be subject to tax on the value of financial assets held outside of Italy. The taxable amount will be the fair market value of the financial assets, assessed at the end of the calendar year. For the purposes of the market value assessment, the documentation issued by the Plan broker may be used.   If you are subject to this foreign financial assets tax, you will need to report the value of your financial assets held abroad in your annual tax return.  You are advised to consult your personal legal advisor for additional information about the foreign financial assets tax. 
  Japan  
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you are a resident of Japan or a foreign national who has established permanent residency in Japan, you will be required to report details of any assets (including any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan) held outside of Japan as of December 31st of each year, to the extent such assets have a total net fair market value exceeding  50,000,000. Such report will be due by March 15th of the following year. You should consult with your personal tax advisor as to whether the reporting obligation applies to you and whether you will be required to report details of any outstanding RSUs or shares of Common Stock held by you in the report. 
  Korea  
  Exchange Control Information.    Korean residents who realize US$500,000 or more from the sale of shares of Common Stock or receipt of dividends in a single transaction are required to repatriate the proceeds to Korea within three years of receipt. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You will be required to declare all foreign accounts (  i.e  ., non-Korean bank accounts, brokerage accounts, etc.) to the Korean tax authorities and file a report if the monthly balance of such accounts exceeds a certain limit (currently KRW 1 billion or an equivalent amount in foreign currency).  You should consult with your personal tax advisor on how to value foreign accounts for purposes of this reporting requirement and whether you are required to file a report with respect to such account. 
  Kuwait 
  Securities Law Notification.    This Plan does not constitute the marketing or offering of securities in Kuwait pursuant to Law No. 7 of 2010 (establishing the Capital Markets Authority) and its implementing regulations.  Offerings under the Plan are being made only to eligible employees of your Employer or the Company or any other subsidiary or affiliate of the Company. 
  Luxembourg  
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    22 

Mexico  
  Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgment.    By accepting this Award, you expressly recognize that the Company, with offices at     345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154, U.S.A., is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and that your participation in the Plan and acquisition of shares does not constitute an employment relationship between you and the Company since you are participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and your sole employer is Bristol-Myers Squibb Company in Mexico ( BMS-Mexico ), not the Company in the United States.  Based on the foregoing, you expressly recognize that the Plan and the benefits that you may derive from participation in the Plan do not establish any rights between you and your employer, BMS-Mexico, and do not form part of the employment conditions and/or benefits provided by BMS-Mexico and any modification of the Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of your employment. 
  You further understand that your participation in the Plan is as a result of a unilateral and discretionary decision of the Company; therefore, the Company reserves the absolute right to amend and/or discontinue your participation at any time without any liability to you. 
  Finally, you hereby declare that you do not reserve to yourself any action or right to bring any claim against the Company for any compensation or damages regarding any provision of the Plan or the benefits derived under the Plan, and you therefore grant a full and broad release to the Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates, branches, representation offices, its shareholders, officers, agents or legal representatives with respect to any claim that may arise. 
  Pol tica Laboral y Reconocimiento/Aceptaci n.    Aceptando este Premio, el participante reconoce que     la Compa  a, with offices at     345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154, U.S.A., es el  nico responsable de la administraci n del Plan y que la participaci n del Participante en el mismo y la adquisicion de acciones no constituye de ninguna manera una relaci n laboral entre el Participante y la Compa  a, toda vez que la participaci n del participante en el Plan deriva  nicamente de una relaci n comercial con la Compa  a, reconociendo expresamente que el  nico empleador del participante lo es Bristol-Myers Squibb Company en Mexico     ( BMS-Mexico ), no es la Compa  a en los Estados Unidos.  Derivado de lo anterior, el participante expresamente reconoce que el Plan y los beneficios que pudieran derivar del mismo no establecen ning n derecho entre el participante y su empleador, BMS`-M xico, y no forman parte de las condiciones laborales y/o prestaciones otorgadas por BMS-M xico, y expresamente el participante reconoce que cualquier modificaci n el Plan o la terminaci n del mismo de manera alguna podr  ser interpretada como una modificaci n de los  condiciones de trabajo del participante. 
  Asimismo, el participante entiende que su participaci n en el Plan es resultado de la decisi n unilateral y discrecional de la Compa  a, por lo tanto, la Compa  a.  Se reserva el derecho absoluto para modificar y/o terminar la participaci n del participante en cualquier momento, sin ninguna responsabilidad para el participante. 
  Finalmente, el participante manifiesta que no se reserva ninguna acci n o derecho que origine una demanda en contra de la Compa  a, por cualquier compensaci n o da o en relaci n con cualquier disposici n del Plan o de los beneficios derivados del mismo, y en consecuencia el participante otorga un amplio y total finiquito a la Compa  a, sus entidades relacionadas, afiliadas, sucursales, oficinas de representaci n, sus accionistas, directores, agentes y representantes legales con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera surgir. 
  Netherlands 
  Securities Law Information.    Attention!  This investment falls outside AFM supervision.  No prospectus required for this activity. 
  Norway 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Oman 
  Securities Law Notification.    This Plan does not constitute the marketing or offering of securities in Oman and consequently has not been registered or approved by the Central Bank of Oman, the Omani Ministry of Commerce and Industry, the Omani Capital Market Authority or any other authority in the Sultanate of Oman.  Offerings under the Plan are being made only to eligible employees of your Employer or the Company or any other subsidiary, affiliate or joint venture of the Company. 
  Peru  
  Securities Law Information.    The grant of RSUs is considered a private offering in Peru; therefore, it is not subject to registration. 
    23 

Labor Law Acknowledgement.    The following provision supplements Section 7 of the Agreement: 
  In accepting the Award of RSUs pursuant to this Agreement, you acknowledge that the RSUs are being granted   ex gratia   to you with the purpose of rewarding you. 
  Poland  
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Polish residents holding foreign securities (including shares of Common Stock) and maintaining accounts abroad must report information to the National Bank of Poland.  Specifically, if the aggregate value of shares and cash held in such foreign accounts exceeds PLN 7 million, Polish residents must file reports on the transactions and balances of the accounts on a quarterly basis on special forms that are available on the website of the National Bank of Poland.   
  Exchange Control Information.    Polish residents are required to transfer funds (  i.e  ., in connection with the sale of shares of Common Stock) through a bank account in Poland if the transferred amount in any single transaction exceeds a specified threshold (currently  15,000).  If you are a Polish resident, you must also retain all documents connected with any foreign exchange transactions you engage in for a period of five years, as measured from the end of the year in which such transaction occurred.  
  You should consult with your personal legal advisor to determine what you must do to fulfill any applicable reporting/exchange control duties. 
  Portugal  
  Language Consent.    You hereby expressly declare that you have full knowledge of the English language and have read, understood and fully accepted and agreed with the terms and conditions established in the Plan and the Agreement. 
  Conhecimento da Lingua.  Voc  expressamente declara ter pleno conhecimento do idioma ingl s e ter lido, entendido e totalmente aceito e concordou com os termos e condi  es estabelecidas no plano e no acordo. 
  Puerto Rico 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Romania 
  Exchange Control Information.    Any transfer of funds exceeding  15,000 (whether via one transaction or several transactions that appear to be linked to each other) must be reported to the National Office for Prevention and Control of Money Laundering on specific forms by the relevant bank or financial institution.      If you deposit the proceeds from the sale of your shares of Common Stock in a bank account in Romania, you may have to provide the Romanian bank through which the operations are effected with appropriate documentation regarding the receipt of the income.  You should consult with a personal legal advisor to determine whether you will be required to submit such documentation to the Romanian bank. 
  Russia 
  Exchange Control Information.    You acknowledge that you must repatriate the proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock within a reasonably short time of receipt.  Such amounts must be initially credited to you through a foreign currency account opened in your name at an authorized bank in Russia.  After the funds are initially received in Russia, they may be further remitted to foreign banks subject to the following limitations:  (i) the foreign account may be opened only for individuals; (ii) the foreign account may not be used for business activities; and (iii) you must give notice to the Russian tax authorities about the opening/closing of each foreign account within one month of the account opening/closing.  Cash dividends (but not dividend equivalents) and cash income received from the transfer of funds and/or shares of Common Stock into the fiduciary/trust management of a non-resident do not need to be remitted to your bank account in Russia but instead can be remitted directly to a foreign individual bank account (in Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ( OECD ) and Financial Action Task Force ( FATF ) countries).  As from January 1, 2018, cash proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock listed on the Russian stock exchange or a foreign exchange on the legally approved list, currently including the New York Stock Exchange, also can be paid directly to your foreign bank account opened with a bank located in an OECD or FATF country.  
    
  You should consult your personal advisor before selling any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan and remitting any sale proceeds to Russia, as significant penalties may apply in the case of non-compliance with exchange control requirement and exchange control requirements are subject to change at any time, often without notice. 
    24 

Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Russian residents are required to notify the Russian tax authorities within one month of opening or closing a foreign bank account, or of changing any account details.  Effective as of January 1, 2015, Russian residents also will be required to file annually with the Russian tax authorities reports of the transactions in his or her foreign bank accounts.  According to draft regulations implementing this law, the first annual report on an approved form for the reporting year 2015 should be due on or before June 1, 2016.  The tax authorities can require any supporting documents related to transactions in your foreign bank account.  
    
  Securities Law Information.    These materials do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia nor do they constitute placement of the shares of Common Stock in Russia. Any shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the RSUs shall be delivered to you through a brokerage account in the U.S.  You may hold shares in your brokerage account in the U.S.; however, in no event will shares issued to you and/or share certificates or other instruments be delivered to you in Russia.  The issuance of Common Stock pursuant to the RSUs described herein has not and will not be registered in Russia and hence, the shares of Common Stock described herein may not be admitted or used for offering, placement or public circulation in Russia. 
  U.S. Transaction.    You are not permitted to make any public advertising or announcements regarding the RSUs or Common Stock in Russia, or promote these shares to other Russian legal entities or individuals, and you are not permitted to sell or otherwise dispose of Common Stock directly to other Russian legal entities or individuals.  You are permitted to sell shares of Common Stock only on the New York Stock Exchange and only through a U.S. broker. 
  Data Privacy Consent.    This section replaces Section 16 of the Agreement: 
  You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. 
  You understand that the Company, any subsidiary and/or the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor ( Data ), for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan. 
  You understand that Data may be transferred to Fidelity, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which assists in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. You understand that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States, or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country (  e.g  ., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.  In this case, appropriate safeguards will be taken by the Company to ensure that your Data is processed with an adequate level of protection and in compliance with applicable local laws and regulation (especially through contractual clauses like European Model Clauses for European countries).      You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the International Compensation and Benefits Group.  You authorize the Company, Fidelity and other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the shares of Common Stock received upon vesting of the RSUs may be deposited.  You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. 
  You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case and without cost, by contacting in writing the International Compensation and Benefits Group.  Further, you understand that you are providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis.  If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you RSUs or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards.  Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan.  For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact the International Compensation and Benefits Group. 
  Labor Law Information  .    You acknowledge that if you continue to hold shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan after an involuntary termination of your employment, you may not be eligible to receive unemployment benefits in Russia. 
    25 

Anti-Corruption Information.    Anti-corruption laws prohibit certain public servants, their spouses and their dependent children from owning any foreign source financial instruments (  e.g  ., shares of foreign companies such as the Company).  Accordingly, you should inform the Company if you are covered by these laws because you should not hold shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan. 
  Saudi Arabia 
  Securities Law Information.    This document may not be distributed in the Kingdom except to such persons as are permitted under the Offers of Securities Regulations issued by the Capital Market Authority. 
  The Capital Market Authority does not make any representation as to the accuracy or completeness of this document, and expressly disclaims any liability whatsoever for any loss arising from, or incurred in reliance upon, any part of this document. Prospective purchasers of the securities offered hereby should conduct their own due diligence on the accuracy of the information relating to the securities. If you do not understand the contents of this document you should consult an authorized financial advisor. 
  Singapore 
  Restrictions on Sale and Transferability  . You hereby agrees that any shares of Common Stock acquired pursuant to the RSUs will not be offered for sale in Singapore prior to the six-month anniversary of the Award Date, unless such sale or offer is made pursuant to the exemptions under Part XIII Division 1 Subdivision (4) (other than section 280) of the Securities and Futures Act (Chap. 289, 2006 Ed.) ( SFA ). 
  Securities Law Information.    The grant of RSUs is being made in reliance of section 273(1)(f) of the SFA for which it is exempt from the prospectus and registration requirements under the SFA and is not made to you with a view to the RSUs being subsequently offered for sale to any other party.  The Plan has not been lodged or registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore. 
  Chief Executive Officer and Director Notification Requirement.    If you are the Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) or a director, associate director or shadow director of a Singapore company, you are subject to certain notification requirements under the Singapore Companies Act.  Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Singapore company in writing when you receive an interest (  e.g.  , RSUs, Common Stock) in the Company or any related companies.  In addition, you must notify the Singapore company when you sell shares of the Company or any related company (including when you sell shares of     Common Stock acquired pursuant to your RSUs).  These notifications must be made within two business days of acquiring or disposing of any interest in the Company or any related company.  In addition, a notification must be made of your interests in the Company or any related company within two business days of becoming the CEO or a director. 
  South Africa  
  Responsibility for Taxes.    The following provision supplements Section 4 (  Responsibility for Taxes  ) of this Agreement: 
  You are required to immediately notify the Employer of the amount of any gain realized at vesting of the RSUs.  If you fail to advise the Employer of such gain, you may be liable for a fine. 
  Exchange Control Information.    You are solely responsible for complying with applicable South African exchange control regulations, and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from failure to comply with applicable laws.  In particular, if you are a resident for exchange control purposes, you are required to obtain approval from the South African Reserve Bank for payments (including payment of proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock) that you receive into accounts based outside of South Africa (  e.g.  , a U.S. brokerage account).  Because the exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your legal advisor prior to the acquisition or sale of shares of Common Stock under the Plan to ensure compliance with current regulations. 
    26 

Spain 
  Exchange Control Information.    If you acquire shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the RSUs and wish to import the ownership title of such shares (  i.e  ., share certificates) into Spain, you must declare the importation of such securities to the Spanish   Direccion General de Pol tica Comercial y de Inversiones Extranjeras   (the  DGPCIE ). Generally, the declaration must be made in January for shares of Common Stock acquired or sold during (or owned as of December 31 of) the prior year; however, if the value of shares acquired or sold exceeds the applicable threshold (currently  1,502,530) (or you hold 10% or more of the share capital of the Company or such other amount that would entitle you to join the Company s board of directors), the declaration must be filed within one month of the acquisition or sale, as applicable. In addition, you also must file a declaration of ownership of foreign securities with the Directorate of Foreign Transactions each January.   
  When receiving foreign currency payments derived pursuant to the RSUs (e.g., proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock), you must inform the financial institution receiving the payment of the basis upon which such payment is made if the payment exceeds  50,000.  Upon request, you will need to provide the institution with the following information: your name, address, and fiscal identification number; the name and corporate domicile of the Company; the amount of the payment; the currency used; the country of origin; the reasons for the payment; and any additional information required. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You are required to electronically declare to the Bank of Spain any security accounts (including brokerage accounts held abroad), as well as the security (including shares of Common Stock acquired at vesting of RSUs) held in such accounts and any transactions carried out with non-residents if the value of the transactions for all such accounts during the prior year or the balances in such accounts as of December 31 of the prior year exceeds  1,000,000.  If neither the total balances nor total transactions with non-residents during the relevant period exceed  50,000,000 a summarized form declaration may be used.  More frequent reporting is required if such transaction value or account balance exceeds  100,000,000. 
  In addition, to the extent you hold shares of Common Stock and/or have bank accounts outside of Spain with a value in excess of  50,000 (for each type of asset) as of December 31, you will be required to report information on such assets on your tax return for such year.  After such shares of Common Stock and/or accounts are initially reported, the reporting obligation will apply for subsequent years only if the value of any previously reported shares of Common Stock or accounts increases by more than  20,000 as of each subsequent December 31. 
  Labor Law Acknowledgment.    This provision supplements Sections 2(g) and 7 of the Agreement: 
  By accepting the RSUs, you consent to participation in the Plan and acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan document. 
  You understand     and agree that, as a condition of the grant of the RSUs, except as provided for in Section 2 of the Agreement, your termination of employment for any reason (including for the reasons listed below) will automatically result in the forfeiture of any RSUs that have not vested on the date of your termination.  
  In particular, you understand and agree that, unless otherwise provided in the Agreement, the RSUs will be forfeited without entitlement to the underlying shares of Common Stock or to any amount as indemnification in the event of a termination of your employment prior to vesting by reason of, including, but not limited to: resignation, disciplinary dismissal adjudged to be with cause, disciplinary dismissal adjudged or recognized to be without good cause (  i.e.  , subject to a  despido improcedente ), individual or collective layoff on objective grounds, whether adjudged to be with cause or adjudged or recognized to be without cause, material modification of the terms of employment under Article 41 of the Workers  Statute, relocation under Article 40 of the Workers  Statute, Article 50 of the Workers  Statute, unilateral withdrawal by the Employer, and under Article 10.3 of Royal Decree 1382/1985. 
  Furthermore, you understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and discretionally decided to grant RSUs under the Plan to individuals who may be employees of the Company or a subsidiary.  The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or any subsidiary on an ongoing basis, other than as expressly set forth in the Agreement.  Consequently, you understand that the RSUs are granted on the assumption and condition that the RSUs and the shares of Common Stock underlying the RSUs shall not become a part of any employment or service contract (either with the Company, the Employer or any subsidiary) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever.  In addition, you understand that the RSUs would not be granted to you but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, you acknowledge and freely accept that, should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then any Award of RSUs shall be null and void. 
    27 

Securities Law Information.    The RSUs and the Common Stock described in the Agreement and this Addendum do not qualify under Spanish regulations as securities.  No  offer of securities to the public,  as defined under Spanish law, has taken place or will take place in the Spanish territory.  The Agreement (including this Addendum) has not been nor will it be registered with the   Comisi n Nacional del Mercado de Valores  , and does not constitute a public offering prospectus. 
  Sweden 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Switzerland 
  Securities Law Information.    The RSUs are not intended to be publicly offered in or from Switzerland.  Because the offer of RSUs is considered a private offering, it is not subject to registration in Switzerland.  Neither this document nor any other materials relating to the RSUs constitutes a prospectus as such term is understood pursuant to article 652a of the Swiss Code of Obligations, and neither this document nor any other materials relating to the RSUs may be publicly distributed nor otherwise made publicly available in Switzerland. 
  Taiwan  
  Securities Law Information.    The offer of participation in the Plan is available only for employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.  The offer of participation in the Plan is not a public offer of securities by a Taiwanese company. 
  Exchange Control Information.    You may remit foreign currency (including proceeds from the sale of Common Stock) into or out of Taiwan up to US$5,000,000 per year without special permission.  If the transaction amount is TWD500,000 or more in a single transaction, you must submit a Foreign Exchange Transaction Form to the remitting bank and provide supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank.   
  Thailand  
  Exchange Control Information.    If the proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock or the receipt of dividends are equal to or greater than US$50,000 or more in a single transaction, you must repatriate the proceeds to Thailand immediately upon receipt and convert the funds to Thai Baht or deposit the proceeds in a foreign currency deposit account maintained by a bank in Thailand within 360 days of remitting the proceeds to Thailand. In addition you must report the inward remittance to the Bank of Thailand on a foreign exchange transaction form.  If you fail to comply with these obligations, you may be subject to penalties assessed by the Bank of Thailand.  Because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your personal advisor before selling shares of Common Stock to ensure compliance with current regulations.  You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Thailand, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable laws. 
  Tunisia 
  Securities Law Information.    All proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock or the receipt of dividends must be repatriated to Tunisia.  You should consult your personal advisor before taking action with respect to remittance of proceeds into Tunisia.  You   may   be required to obtain prior authorization from the Central Bank of Tunisia ("CBT") for the acquisition of shares of Common Stock under the Plan.  Because you do not pay anything for the RSUs or the underlying shares of Common Stock, the application of this requirement to the RSUs is unclear.  For this reason, you should consult your personal legal advisor prior to vesting and settlement or, at the latest, prior to repatriation of any proceeds back to Tunisia at which time you may also be able to apply for any necessary authorization from the CBT. You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Tunisia.  In addition, if you hold assets abroad in excess of a certain amount, you must report the assets to the CBT. 
  Turkey 
  Securities Law Information.    Under Turkish law, you are not permitted to sell shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan in Turkey.  The shares of Common Stock are currently traded on the New York Stock Exchange, which is located outside of Turkey, under the ticker symbol  BMY  and the shares of Common Stock may be sold through this exchange. 
    28 

Exchange Control Information.    In certain circumstances, Turkish residents are permitted to sell shares traded on a non-Turkish stock exchange only through a financial intermediary licensed in Turkey and should be reported to the Turkish Capital Markets Board.  Therefore, you may be required to appoint a Turkish broker to assist with the sale of the shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan.  You should consult your personal legal advisor before selling any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan to confirm the applicability of this requirement. 
  United Arab Emirates 
  Securities Law Information.    The Plan is only being offered to qualified employees and is in the nature of providing equity incentives to employees of the Company or its subsidiary or affiliate in the UAE.  Any documents related to the Plan, including the Plan, Plan prospectus and other grant documents ( Plan Documents ), are intended for distribution only to such employees and must not be delivered to, or relied on by, any other person.  Prospective purchasers of the securities offered should conduct their own due diligence on the securities. If you do not understand the contents of the Plan Documents, you should consult an authorized financial adviser. 
    
  The Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority has no responsibility for reviewing or verifying any Plan Documents  nor taken steps to verify the information set out in them, and thus, are not responsible for  such documents. 
  The securities to which this summary relates may be illiquid and/or subject to restrictions on their resale. Prospective purchasers of the securities offered should conduct their own due diligence on the securities. 
  United Kingdom 
  Responsibility for Taxes.    This provision supplements Section 4 of the Agreement:   
  You agree that, if you do not pay or the Employer or the Company does not withhold from you the full amount of income tax due in connection with the RSUs within 90 days after the end of the U.K. year in which the taxable event occurs, or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (the  Due Date ), then the amount of income tax that should have been withheld shall constitute a loan owed by you to the Employer, effective or the Due Date.  You agree that the loan will bear interest at Her Majesty s Revenue   Customs  ( HMRC ) official rate and will be immediately due and repayable by you, and the Company and/or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to in Section 4 of the Agreement. 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are a director or executive officer (as within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), the terms of the immediately foregoing provision will not apply.  In the event that you are a director or executive officer and the income tax that is due is not collected from or paid by you by the Due Date, the amount of any uncollected income tax may constitute a benefit to you on which additional income tax and national insurance contributions may be payable.  You may be responsible for reporting and paying any income tax due on this additional benefit directly to the HMRC under the self-assessment regime and for reimbursing the Company or the Employer (as appropriate) for the value of any employee national insurance contributions due on this additional benefit, which the Company or the Employer may recover from you by any means referred to in Section 4 of the Agreement. 
  Venezuela  
  Securities Law Information.    The RSUs granted under the Plan and the shares of Common Stock issued under the Plan are offered as a personal, private, exclusive transaction and are not subject to Venezuelan securities regulations. 
  Exchange Control Information.    Exchange control restrictions may limit the ability to remit funds out of Venezuela in order to receive shares of Common Stock upon vesting of the RSUs, or remit funds into Venezuela following the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired upon vesting of the RSUs. The Company reserves the right to restrict settlement of the RSUs or to amend or cancel the RSUs at any time in order to comply with applicable exchange control laws in Venezuela.  Any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan are intended to be an investment rather than for the resale and conversion of the shares into foreign currency.  You are responsible for complying with exchange control laws in Venezuela and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable laws.  Because exchange control laws and regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult with your personal legal advisor before accepting the RSUs and before selling any shares of Common Stock acquired upon vesting of the RSUs to ensure compliance with current regulations. 
    
    29 

</EX-10.AA>

<EX-10.BB>
 5
 exhibit10bbmarketshareunit.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.BB

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 10bb. 
  
  MARKET SHARE UNITS AGREEMENT 
  UNDER THE BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY 
  2012 STOCK AWARD AND INCENTIVE PLAN 
    
  BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), has granted to you the Market Share Units ( MSUs ) specified in the Grant Summary located on the Stock Plan Administrator's website, which is incorporated into this Market Share Units Agreement (the  Agreement ) and deemed to be a part hereof.  The MSUs have been granted to you under Sections 6(i) and 7 of the 2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), on the terms and conditions specified in the Grant Summary and this Agreement.  Capitalized terms used in this Agreement that are not specifically defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan. 
           1. 
    MARKET SHARE UNITS AWARD 
     The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the  Committee ) has granted to you as of March 10, 2016 (the  Award Date ) an Award of MSUs as designated herein subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan.  Each MSU shall represent the conditional right to receive, upon settlement of the MSU, one share of Bristol-Myers Squibb Common Stock ( Common Stock ), or, at the discretion of the Company, the cash equivalent thereof, (subject to any tax withholding as described in Section 4).  The purpose of such Award is to motivate and retain you as an employee of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, to encourage you to continue to give your best efforts for the Company s future success, to increase your proprietary interest in the Company, and to further align your compensation with the interests of the Company s shareholders.  Except as may be required by law, you are not required to make any payment (other than payments for taxes pursuant to Section 4 hereof) or provide any consideration other than the rendering of future services to the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. 
           2. 
    RESTRICTIONS, FORFEITURES, AND SETTLEMENT 
     Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2, MSUs shall be subject to the restrictions and conditions set forth herein during the period from the Award Date until the date such MSU has become vested and non-forfeitable such that there are no longer any MSUs that may become potentially vested and non-forfeitable (the  Restricted Period ).  Vesting of the MSUs is conditioned upon you remaining continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company from the Award Date until the relevant vesting date, subject to the provisions of this Section 2.  In addition, for purposes of vesting, the MSU grant shall be divided into four tranches, each of which shall include 25% of the number of MSUs specified in the Grant Summary.   
  Assuming satisfaction of such employment conditions, the MSUs shall vest only if the Share Price (as defined below) on the applicable Measurement Date (as defined below) equals at least 60% of the Share Price on the Award Date.  If this threshold condition is satisfied, MSUs shall vest to the extent provided in the following schedule: 
    1 

(A) 
  Tranche 
    (B) 
  MSUs in Tranche 
    (C) 
  Vesting Date 
    (D) 
  Payout Factor 
    (E) 
  Number of MSUs Vested 
      1 
    25% of Total  
    1st Anniversary of Award Date 
    Share Price on Measurement Date divided by Share Price on Award Date 
    MSUs in Tranche (Column B) times Payout Factor (Column D) 
      2 
    25% of Total  
    2nd Anniversary of Award Date 
    Share Price on Measurement Date divided by Share Price on Award Date 
    MSUs in Tranche (Column B) times Payout Factor (Column D) 
      3 
    25% of Total  
    3rd Anniversary of Award Date 
    Share Price on Measurement Date divided by Share Price on Award Date 
    MSUs in Tranche (Column B) times Payout Factor (Column D) 
      4 
    25% of Total  
    4th Anniversary of Award Date 
    Share Price on Measurement Date divided by Share Price on Award Date 
    MSUs in Tranche (Column B) times Payout Factor (Column D) 

For purposes of the table set forth above- 
           (A) 
     Share Price  shall equal the average of the closing share price of the Company s Common Stock on the Measurement Date or Award Date, as applicable, and the nine trading days immediately preceding the Measurement Date or Award Date.  If there were no trades on the Measurement Date or Award Date, the closing price on the most recent date preceding the Measurement Date or Award Date, as applicable, on which there were trades and the nine trading days immediately preceding that date shall be used. 
              (B) 
     Payout Factor  shall be rounded to the nearest hundredth (two places after the decimal), except that if the  Payout Factor  equals more than 2.00, the Payout Factor used in Column E shall be 2.00.  Notwithstanding the formula in the table, the Payout Factor for any vesting date that occurs on or after a Change in Control shall equal the Share Price on the date of the Change in Control divided by the Share Price on the Award Date. 
              (C) 
     Measurement Date  shall mean the February 28 immediately preceding the vesting date for each tranche. 
     Any MSUs that fail to vest, either because the employment condition is not satisfied or because the Payout Factor for the applicable vesting date is less than 60% shall be forfeited, subject to the special provisions set forth in Sections 2(c)-(g) hereof. 
           (a) 
    Nontransferability  .  During the Restricted Period and any further period prior to settlement of your MSUs, you may not sell, transfer, pledge or assign any of the MSUs or your rights relating thereto. If you attempt to assign your rights under this Agreement in violation of the provisions herein, the Company s obligation to settle MSUs or otherwise make payments shall terminate. 
              (b) 
    Time of Settlement  .  MSUs shall be settled promptly upon expiration of the Restricted Period without forfeiture of the MSUs (i.e., upon vesting), but in any event within 60 days of expiration of the Restricted Period, by delivery of one share of Common Stock for each MSU being settled, or, at the discretion of the Company, the cash equivalent thereof; provided, however, that settlement of an MSU shall be subject to Plan Section 11(k), including, if applicable, the six-month delay rule in Plan Section 11(k)(i)(C) to the extent the MSUs are subject to Section 409A, payment is on account of your  separation from service  and you are a  key employee,  both within the meaning of Section 409A; provided further, that no dividend or dividend equivalents will be paid, accrued or accumulated in respect of the period during which settlement was delayed.  (  Note: This rule may apply to any portion of the MSUs that vest after the time you become Retirement eligible under the Plan, and could apply in other cases as well  ).  Settlement of MSUs which directly or indirectly result from adjustments to MSUs shall occur at the time of settlement of the granted MSUs.  Until shares are delivered to you in settlement of MSUs, you shall have none of the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to the shares issuable in settlement of the MSUs, including the right to vote the shares and receive actual dividends and other distributions on the underlying shares of Common Stock.  Shares of stock  
       2 

issuable in settlement of MSUs shall be delivered to you upon settlement in certificated form or in such other manner as the Company may reasonably determine.  At that time, you will have all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company. 
           (c) 
    Retirement  .  In the event of your Retirement (as that term is defined in Plan Section 2(x)(i)) at or after your 65   th    birthday and prior to the end of the Restricted Period, the continuous employment requirement shall be eliminated and you shall vest in and be entitled to settlement of (i.e., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) any MSUs that have not previously been vested or forfeited, provided that you have been continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for at least one year following the Award Date and your employment has not been terminated by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company.  Any MSU that vests upon your Retirement shall vest based on the Payout Factor determined by substituting for the Measurement Date either (i) the first trading day of the first month following your last day of work; (ii) your last day of work if such date occurs on the first trading day of a month; or (iii) the date of a Change in Control, if a Change in Control has occurred before your Retirement.  
              (d) 
    Early Retirement; Termination not for Misconduct/Detrimental Conduct  .  This Section 2(d) shall apply in the event of (1) your Retirement (as that term is defined in Plan Sections 2(x)(ii) or 2(x)(iii)) (A) at or after age 55 with at least 10 years of service or (B) after attaining eligibility for the  Rule of 70  or (2) the termination of your employment by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for reasons other than misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company (and you are not eligible for Retirement).  If one of the events described in the preceding sentence occurs before the end of the Restricted Period, the continuous employment requirement shall be eliminated and you shall vest in and be entitled to settlement of (i.e., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) a proportionate number of the MSUs that would otherwise have vested on the vesting date that next follows the date on which the event occurs, provided that you have been continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for at least one year following the Award Date and your employment has not been terminated by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company.  Any MSU that vests upon your early Retirement or termination shall vest based on the Payout Factor determined by substituting for the Measurement Date either (i) the first trading day of the first month following your last day of work; (ii) your last day of work if such date occurs on the first trading day of a month; or (iii) the date of a Change in Control, if a Change in Control has occurred before your early Retirement or termination.  If you are not eligible for Retirement (as that term is defined in Plan Sections 2(x)(i) or 2(x)(ii)), and you are employed in the United States or Puerto Rico at the time of your Retirement, you shall be entitled to the pro rata vesting described in this Section 2(d) only if you execute and do not revoke a release in favor of the Company and its predecessors, successors, affiliates, subsidiaries, directors and employees in a form satisfactory to the Company; if you fail to execute or revoke the release, or your release fails to become effective and irrevocable within 60 days of the date your employment terminates, you shall forfeit any MSUs that are unvested as of the date your employment terminates.  The formula for determining the proportionate number of your MSUs to become vested and non-forfeitable upon your early Retirement or involuntary termination not for misconduct or other detrimental conduct is available by request from the Office of the Corporate Secretary at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154. 
              (e) 
    Death  .  In the event of your death during the Restricted Period, the continuous employment requirement shall be eliminated and your estate shall vest in and be entitled to settlement of (i.e., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) a proportionate number of the MSUs that would otherwise have vested on the vesting date that next follows the date on which your death occurs, provided that you have been continuously employed by the Company for at least one year following the Award Date.  Any MSU that vests upon your death shall vest based on the Payout Factor determined by substituting for the Measurement Date either (i) the first trading day of the first month following your last day of work; (ii) your last day of work if such date occurs on the first trading day of a month; or (iii) the date of a Change in Control, if a Change in Control has occurred before your death.  The formula for determining the proportionate number of your MSUs to become vested and non-forfeitable upon your death is available by request from the Office of the Corporate Secretary at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154.  In the event of your death prior to the delivery  
       3 

of shares in settlement of MSUs (not previously forfeited), shares in settlement of your MSUs shall be delivered to your estate, upon presentation to the Committee of letters testamentary or other documentation satisfactory to the Committee, and your estate shall succeed to any other rights provided hereunder in the event of your death. 
           (f) 
    Disability  .  In the event you become Disabled (as that term is defined below), for the period during which you continue to be deemed to be employed by the Company or a subsidiary (i.e., the period during which you receive Disability benefits), you will not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of the MSUs.  However, no period of continued disability shall continue beyond 29 months for purposes of the MSUs, at which time you will have considered to have separated from service in accordance with applicable laws as more fully provided for herein.  Upon the termination of your receipt of Disability benefits, (i) you will not be deemed to have terminated employment if you return to employment status, and (ii) if you do not return to employment status or are considered to have separated from service as noted above, you will be deemed to have terminated employment at the date of cessation of payments to you under all disability pay plans of the Company and its subsidiaries, with such termination treated for purposes of the MSUs as a Retirement, death, or voluntary termination based on your circumstances at the time of such termination.  For purposes of this Agreement,  Disability  or  Disabled  shall mean qualifying for and receiving payments under a disability plan of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate either in the United States or in a jurisdiction outside of the United States, and in jurisdictions outside of the United States shall also include qualifying for and receiving payments under a mandatory or universal disability plan or program managed or maintained by the government. 
              (g) 
    Qualifying Termination Following Change in Control  .  In the event your employment is terminated by reason of a Qualifying Termination during the Protected Period following a Change in Control, the continuous employment requirement shall be eliminated and you shall vest in and be entitled to settlement of (i.e., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) any MSUs that have not previously been forfeited.  Any MSU that vests following a Qualifying Termination during the applicable Protected Period following a Change in Control shall vest based on the Payout Factor determined by substituting for the Measurement Date the date of the Change in Control. 
              (h) 
    Other Termination of Employment  .  In the event of your voluntary termination, or termination by the Company or a subsidiary for misconduct or other conduct deemed by the Company to be detrimental to the interests of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, you shall forfeit all unvested MSUs on the date of termination. 
              (i) 
    Other Terms  .  
              (i) 
    In the event that you fail promptly to pay or make satisfactory arrangements as to the Tax Related Items as provided in Section 4, all MSUs subject to restriction shall be forfeited by you and shall be deemed to be reacquired by the Company.  
              (ii) 
    You may, at any time prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, waive all rights with respect to all or some of the MSUs by delivering to the Company a written notice of such waiver. 
              (iii) 
    Termination of employment includes any event if immediately thereafter you are no longer an employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, subject to Section 2(j) hereof.  References in this Section 2 to employment by the Company include employment by a subsidiary of the Company.  Termination of employment means an event after which you are no longer employed by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company.  Such an event could include the disposition of a subsidiary or business unit by the Company or a subsidiary. 
              (iv) 
    Upon any termination of your employment, any MSUs as to which the Restricted Period has not expired at or before such termination shall be forfeited, subject to Sections 2(c)-(g) hereof.  Other provisions of this Agreement notwithstanding, in no event will an MSU that has been forfeited thereafter vest or be settled. 
       4 

(v) 
    In the event of termination of your employment or other service relationship (for any reason whatsoever, whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or determined by the Company, your right to vest in the MSUs under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively providing services and will not be extended by any notice period (  e.g.  , active services would not include any contractual notice period or any period of  garden leave  or similar period mandated under employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing services for purposes of your MSUs (including whether you may still be considered to be providing services while on a leave of absence). 
              (vi) 
    In any case in which you are required to execute a release as a condition to vesting and settlement of the MSUs, the applicable procedure shall be as specified under Plan Section 11(k)(v), except that the deadline for complying with such condition shall be the period provided in this Agreement. 
              (vii) 
    You agree that the Company may recover any incentive-based compensation received by you under this Agreement if such recovery is pursuant to a clawback or recoupment policy approved by the Committee. 
              (j) 
    The following events shall not be deemed a termination of employment: 
              (i) 
    A transfer of you from the Company to a subsidiary, or vice versa, or from one subsidiary to another; and 
              (ii) 
    A leave of absence from which you return to active service for any purpose approved by the Company or a subsidiary in writing.  
     Any failure to return to active service with the Company or a subsidiary at the end of an approved leave of absence as described herein shall be deemed a voluntary termination of employment effective on the date the approved leave of absence ends, subject to applicable law.  During a leave of absence as defined in (ii) or (iii), although you will be considered to have been continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary and not to have had a termination of employment under this Section 2, the Committee may specify that such leave period shall not be counted in determining the period of employment for purposes of the vesting of the MSUs.  In such case, the vesting dates for unvested MSUs shall be extended by the length of any such leave of absence and any such MSU that vests thereafter shall vest based on the Payout Factor determined by substituting for the Measurement Date the applicable vesting date.  
           (k) 
    As more fully provided for in the Plan, notwithstanding any provision herein, in any Award or in the Plan to the contrary, the terms of any Award shall be limited to those terms permitted under Code Section 409A including all applicable regulations and administrative guidance thereunder ( Section 409A ), and any terms not permitted under Section 409A shall be automatically modified and limited to the extent necessary to conform with Section 409A, but only to the extent such modification or limitation is permitted under Section 409A. 
              3. 
    NON-COMPETITION AND NON-SOLICITATION AGREEMENT AND COMPANY RIGHT TO INJUNCTIVE RELIEF, DAMAGES, RECISSION, FORFEITURE AND OTHER REMEDIES     
     You acknowledge that your continued employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company and/or the grant of MSUs pursuant to this Agreement is sufficient consideration for this Agreement, including, without limitation, all applicable restrictions imposed on you by this Section 3. 
    5 

(a) 
    Confidentiality Obligations and Agreement  .  By accepting this Award Agreement, you agree and/or reaffirm the terms of all agreements related to treatment of Confidential Information that you signed at the inception of or during your employment, the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference.  This includes, but is not limited to, use or disclosure of any BMS Confidential Information, Proprietary Information, or Trade Secrets to third parties.  Confidential Information, Proprietary Information, and Trade secrets include, but are not limited to, any information gained in the course of your employment with the Company that is marked as confidential or could reasonably be expected to harm the Company if disclosed to third parties, including without limitation, any information that could reasonably be expected to aid a competitor or potential competitor in making inferences regarding the nature of the Company s business activities, where such inferences could reasonably be expected to allow such competitor to compete more effectively with the Company.   You agree that you will not remove or disclose Company Confidential Information, Proprietary Information or Trade Secrets.  Unauthorized removal includes forwarding or downloading confidential information to personal email or other electronic media and/or copying the information to personal unencrypted thumb drives, cloud storage or drop box.    Immediately upon termination of your employment for any reason, you will return to the Company all of the Company s confidential and other business materials that you have or that are in your possession or control and all copies thereof, including all tangible embodiments thereof, whether in hard copy or electronic format and you shall not retain any versions thereof on any personal computer or any other media (  e.g.  , flash drives, thumb drives, external hard drives and the like). Nothing in this paragraph or Agreement limits or prohibits your right to report potential violations of law, rules, or regulations to, or communicate with, cooperate with, testify before, or otherwise assist in an investigation or proceeding by, any government agency or entity, or engage in any other conduct that is required or protected by law or regulation, and you are not required to obtain the prior authorization of the Company to do so and are not required to notify the Company that you have done so.   
              (b) 
    Inventions  .  To the extent permitted by local law, you agree and/or reaffirm the terms of all agreements related to inventions that you signed at the inception of or during your employment, and agree to promptly disclose and assign to the Company all of your interest in any and all inventions, discoveries, improvements and business or marketing concepts related to the current or contemplated business or activities of the Company, and which are conceived or made by you, either alone or in conjunction with others, at any time or place during the period you are employed by the Company. Upon request of the Company, including after your termination, you agree to execute, at the Company s expense, any and all applications, assignments, or other documents which the Company shall determine necessary to apply for and obtain letters patent to protect the Company s interest in such inventions, discoveries, and improvements and to cooperate in good faith in any legal proceedings to protect the Company s intellectual property. 
              (c) 
    Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Related Covenants  .  By accepting this Agreement, you agree to the restrictive covenants outlined in this section unless expressly prohibited by local law or as follows:  The post-termination non-compete restrictions outlined in subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (v) of this Section 3(c) do not apply to employees who are, at the time of termination from employment by BMS, assigned to work for BMS resident full-time in the States of California or North Dakota, except that should said employee accept employment outside of California or North Dakota, all restrictions in Section 3(c), including, but not limited to, those pertaining to post-termination activities, shall be fully enforceable. There are no exemptions for any Award recipients (including employee residents of the States of California and North Dakota) regarding non-compete provisions while employed at the Company or from subparagraphs (iii), (iv) and (vi) of this Section 3(c) during the entire Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period. 
     Given the extent and nature of the confidential information that you have obtained or will obtain during the course of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, it would be inevitable or, at the least, substantially probable that such confidential information would be disclosed or utilized by you should you obtain employment from, or otherwise become associated with, an entity or person that is engaged in a business or enterprise that directly competes with the Company.  Even if not inevitable, it would be impossible or impracticable for the Company to monitor your strict compliance with your confidentiality obligations.  Consequently, you agree that you will not, directly or indirectly: 
    6 

(i) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period (as defined below), own or have any financial interest in a Competitive Business (as defined below), except that nothing in this clause shall prevent you from owning one per cent or less of the outstanding securities of any entity whose securities are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange (including NASDAQ) or an equivalent foreign exchange; 
       
           (ii) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, whether or not for compensation, either on your own behalf or as an employee, officer, agent, consultant, director, owner, partner, joint venturer, shareholder, investor, or in any other capacity, be actively connected with a Competitive Business or otherwise advise or assist a Competitive Business with regard to any product, investigational compound, technology, service, line of business, department or business unit that competes with any product, technology, service, line of business, department or business unit with which you worked or about which you became familiar as a result of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, after your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company terminates for any reason, you may be affiliated with a Competitive Business provided that your affiliation does not involve any product, investigational compound, technology or service, that competes with any product, investigational compound, technology or service with which you were involved within the last twelve months of your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, including any product, investigational compound, technology or service which the Company is developing and of which you had knowledge, and you and the Competing Business provide the Company written assurances of this fact prior to your commencing such affiliation; 
       
           (iii) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, employ, solicit for employment, solicit, induce, encourage, or participate in soliciting, inducing or encouraging any Company employee who is employed by the Company or who was employed by the Company within the twelve months preceding the termination of your employment with the Company for any reason, to terminate or reduce his or her or its relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates, successors or assigns (the  Related Parties  
       
           (iv) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, solicit, induce, encourage, or appropriate or attempt to solicit, divert or appropriate, by use of Confidential Information or otherwise, any existing or prospective customer, vendor or supplier of the Company or any Related Parties to terminate, cancel or otherwise reduce its relationship with the Company or any Related Parties; 
       
           (v) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, contact, call upon or solicit any existing customer of the Company or its Related Parties, or prospective customer of the Company or its Related Parties, that you became aware of or was introduced to in the course of your duties for the Company or its Related Parties, or otherwise divert or take away from the Company or its Related Parties the business of any current or prospective customer of the Company or its Related Parties; or 
       
           (vi) 
    during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, engage in any activity that is harmful to the interests of the Company or its Related Parties, including, without limitation, any conduct during the term of your employment that violates the Company s Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics, securities trading policy and other policies.  
       
           (d) 
    Rescission, Forfeiture and Other Remedies  .  If the Company determines that you have violated any applicable provisions of Section 3(c) above during the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, in addition to injunctive relief and damages, you agree and covenant that: 
              (i) 
    any unvested portion of the MSUs shall be immediately rescinded; 
       
           (ii) 
    you shall automatically forfeit any rights you may have with respect to the MSUs as of the date of such determination; 
       
    7 

(iii) 
    if any part of the MSUs vests within the twelve-month period immediately preceding a violation of Section 3(c) above (or following the date of any such violation), upon the Company s demand, you shall immediately deliver to it a certificate or certificates for shares of the Company s Common Stock that you acquired upon settlement of such MSUs (or an equivalent number of other shares); and 
       
           (iv) 
    the foregoing remedies set forth in this Section 3(d) shall not be the Company s exclusive remedies.  The Company reserves all other rights and remedies available to it at law or in equity. 
       
           (e) 
    Definitions  .  For purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply: 
              (i) 
     Competitive Business  means any business that is engaged in or is about to become engaged in the development, production or sale of any product, process or service concerning the treatment of any disease, which product, process or service resembles or competes with any product, process or service that was sold by, or in development at, the Company or a subsidiary of the Company during your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. 
       
           (ii) 
    Because of the global nature of the Company s business, it is agreed that the restrictions set forth above shall apply in the  Restricted Area,  defined as including without limitation the continent, country and the geographic regions where you worked in and were responsible for while employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, and any other geographic area (country, province, state, city or other political subdivision) in which the Company or a subsidiary of the Company is engaged in business and/or is otherwise selling products or services at the time you ceased working for the Company or a subsidiary of the Company;  
              (A) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines the foregoing geographic scope is unenforceable, the  Restricted Area  shall be defined as the continent, country and the geographic regions where you worked and were responsible for while employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company;   
              (B) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines that the foregoing geographic scope is unenforceable, the  Restricted Area  shall be defined as the country in which you worked; 
              (C) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines that the foregoing geographic scope is unenforceable, the  Restricted Area  shall be defined as the geographic regions that you serviced and were responsible for while employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. 
              (iii) 
    The  Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period  shall be the period during which Employee is employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company and   twelve (12) months   after the end of Employee s term of employment with and/or work for the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for any reason, (e.g., restriction applies regardless of the reason for termination and includes voluntary and involuntary termination) (hereinafter  Termination Date  
          
           (A) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines that such period is unenforceable, the  Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period  shall be the period of your employment and an additional   eleven (11) months   after your employment Termination Date with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for any reason; 
              (B) 
    provided, however, that if a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority determines that such period is unenforceable, the  Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period  shall be the period of your employment and an additional   ten (10) months   after your employment Termination Date with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company for any reason; 
              (C) 
    provided further, in the event that the Company or a subsidiary of the Company files an action to enforce rights arising out of this Agreement, the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period shall be extended for all periods of time in which you are determined by the Court or other authority to have been in violation of the provisions of Section 3(c). 
       8 

(f) 
    Severability  .  You acknowledge and agree that the period, scope and geographic areas of restriction imposed upon you by this Section 3 are fair and reasonable and are reasonably required for the protection of the Company.  In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions will not in any way be affected or impaired and this Agreement shall nevertheless continue to be valid and enforceable as though the invalid provisions were not part of this Agreement.  If the final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority declares that any term or provision hereof is invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the parties agree that the court making such determination shall have the power to reduce the scope, duration, area or applicability of the term or provision, to delete specific words or phrases, or to replace any invalid, illegal or unenforceable term or provision with a term or provision that is valid, legal and enforceable to the maximum extent permissible under law and that comes closest to expressing the intention of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable term or provision.  You acknowledge and agree that your covenants under this Agreement are ancillary to your employment relationship with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, but shall be independent of any other contractual relationship between you and the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.  Consequently, the existence of any claim or cause of action that you may have against the Company or a subsidiary of the Company shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement of this Agreement by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, nor an excuse for noncompliance with this Agreement. 
              (g) 
    Additional Remedies  .  You acknowledge and agree that any violation by you of this paragraph will cause irreparable harm to the Company and its Related Parties and the Company cannot be adequately compensated for such violation by damages.  Accordingly, if you violate or threaten to violate this Agreement, then, in addition to any other rights or remedies that the Company may have in law or in equity, the Company shall be entitled, without the posting of a bond or other security, to obtain an injunction to stop or prevent such violation, including but not limited to obtaining a temporary or preliminary injunction from a Delaware court pursuant to Section 1(a) of the Mutual Arbitration Agreement and Section 14 of this Agreement. You further agree that if the Company incurs legal fees or costs in enforcing this Agreement, you will reimburse the Company for such fees and costs. 
              (h) 
    Binding Obligations  .  These obligations shall be binding both upon you, your assigns, executors, administrators and legal representatives. At the inception of or during the course of your employment, you may have executed agreements that contain similar terms. Those agreements remain in full force and effect.  In the event that there is a conflict between the terms of those agreements and this Agreement, this Agreement will control. 
              (i) 
    Enforcement  .  The Company retains discretion regarding whether or not to enforce the terms of the covenants contained in this Section 3 and its decision not to do so in your instance or anyone s case shall not be considered a waiver of the Company s right to do so. 
              (j) 
    Duty to Notify  .  During your employment with the Company and for a period of 12 months after your termination of employment from the Company, you shall communicate your obligations under this Agreement to each subsequent employer.  In addition, you shall advise the Company of the name and address of your intended future employer, including the title of the position accepted with the subsequent employer.  While employed at the Company, you are required to provide this information immediately upon acceptance of a position with a new employer.  Once terminated from the Company, upon resignation from any subsequent employer.  The Company shall have the right to advise any subsequent employer of your obligations hereunder. 
              4. 
    RESPONSIBILITY FOR TAXES 
     You acknowledge that, regardless of any action taken by the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company, including your employer ( Employer ), the ultimate liability for all income tax (including federal, state, local and non-U.S. taxes), social security, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you or deemed by the Company or the Employer to be an appropriate charge to you even if legally applicable to the Company or the Employer ( Tax-Related Items ) is and remains your responsibility  
    9 

and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer.  You further acknowledge that the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate and/or the Employer: (a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Related Items in connection with any aspect of the MSUs, including the grant of the MSUs, the vesting of MSUs, the conversion of the MSUs into shares of Common Stock or the receipt of an equivalent cash payment, the subsequent sale of any shares of Common Stock acquired at settlement and the receipt of any dividends; and, (b) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the MSUs to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax Related Items or achieve any particular tax result.  Further, if you are subject to Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
  Prior to the relevant taxable event, you agree to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items.  In this regard, by your acceptance of the MSUs, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy their withholding obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: 
           (a) 
    withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer; or  
              (b) 
    withholding from proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired upon settlement of the MSUs either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent); or  
              (c) 
    withholding in shares of Common Stock to be issued upon settlement of the MSUs; 
     provided, however, if you are a Section 16 officer of the Company under the Exchange Act, then the Company will withhold shares of Common Stock upon the relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, unless the use of such withholding method is problematic under applicable tax or securities law or has materially adverse accounting consequences, in which case, the obligation for Tax-Related Items may be satisfied by one or a combination of methods (a) and (b) above. 
  Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates, in which case, you will receive a refund of any over-withheld amount in cash and will have no entitlement to the Common Stock equivalent.  If the obligation for Tax Related Items is satisfied by withholding in shares of Common Stock, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of shares of Common Stock subject to the vested MSUs, notwithstanding that a number of the shares of Common Stock are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax Related Items. 
  Finally, you agree to pay to the Company or the Employer, including through withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer, any amount of Tax Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the shares or the proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock, if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items. 
  Notwithstanding anything in this Section 4 to the contrary, to avoid a prohibited acceleration under Section 409A, if shares of Common Stock subject to MSUs will be sold on your behalf (or withheld) to satisfy any Tax-Related Items arising prior to the date of settlement of the MSUs, then to the extent that any portion of the MSUs that is considered nonqualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A, then the number of such shares sold on your behalf (or withheld) shall not exceed the number of shares that equals the liability for Tax-Related Items with respect to such shares. 
           5. 
    DIVIDENDS AND ADJUSTMENTS 
              (a) 
    Dividends or dividend equivalents are not paid, accrued or accumulated on MSUs during the Restricted Period, except as provided in Section 5(b). 
              (b) 
    The number of your MSUs and/or other related terms shall be appropriately adjusted, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of your rights with respect to MSUs, to reflect any changes in the outstanding shares of Common Stock resulting from any event referred to in Plan Section 11(c) or any other  equity restructuring  as defined in FASB ASC Topic 718. 
       10 

6. 
    EFFECT ON OTHER BENEFITS 
     In no event shall the value, at any time, of the MSUs or any other payment under this Agreement be included as compensation or earnings for purposes of any other compensation, retirement, or benefit plan offered to employees of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company unless otherwise specifically provided for in such plan.  The MSUs and the underlying shares of Common Stock (or their cash equivalent), and the income and value of the same, are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes including, but not limited to, calculation of any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy or end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits, or similar payments. 
           7. 
    ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NATURE OF PLAN AND MSUs 
     In accepting the MSUs, you acknowledge, understand and agree that:  
           (a) 
    The Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, to the extent permitted by the Plan;  
              (b) 
    The Award of MSUs is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of MSUs, or benefits in lieu of MSUs even if MSUs have been awarded in the past;  
              (c) 
    All decisions with respect to future awards of MSUs or other awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;  
              (d) 
    Your participation in the Plan is voluntary;  
              (e) 
    The MSUs and the Common Stock subject to the MSUs are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation; 
              (f) 
    Unless otherwise agreed by the Company, the MSUs and the Common Stock subject to the MSUs, and the income and value of the same, are not granted as consideration for, or in connection with, the service you may provide as a director of a subsidiary or an affiliate of the Company; 
              (g) 
    The future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with certainty;  
              (h) 
    No claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the forfeiture of MSUs, resulting from termination of your employment or other service relationship with the Company, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), and in consideration of the grant of the MSUs to which you are otherwise not entitled, you irrevocably agree never to institute any claim against the Company, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or the Employer, waive your ability, if any, to bring such claim, and release the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate and/or the Employer from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by participating in the Plan, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agree to execute any and all documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claim. 
              (i) 
    Unless otherwise provided in the Plan or by the Company in its discretion, the MSUs and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have the MSUs or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the shares of the Company; and 
              (j) 
    The following provisions apply only if you are providing services outside the United States: (i) the Award and the shares of Common Stock subject to the MSUs are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose; and (ii) neither the Company, the Employer nor any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between your local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the MSUs or of any amounts due to you pursuant to the settlement of the MSUs or the subsequent sale of any shares of Common Stock acquired upon settlement. 
       11 

8. 
    NO ADVICE REGARDING GRANT 
     The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your participation in the Plan or your acquisition or sale of the underlying shares of Common Stock.  You are hereby advised to consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan. 
           9. 
    RIGHT TO CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT 
     Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or any specific position or level of employment with the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or affect in any way the right of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company to terminate your employment without prior notice at any time for any reason or no reason. 
           10. 
    ADMINISTRATION; UNFUNDED OBLIGATIONS 
     The Committee shall have full authority and discretion, subject only to the express terms of the Plan, to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this Agreement, and all such Committee determinations shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate, you, and all interested parties.  Any provision for distribution in settlement of your MSUs and other obligations hereunder shall be by means of bookkeeping entries on the books of the Company and shall not create in you or any beneficiary any right to, or claim against any, specific assets of the Company, nor result in the creation of any trust or escrow account for you or any beneficiary.  You and any of your beneficiaries entitled to any settlement or distribution hereunder shall be a general creditor of the Company. 
   You are required to accept the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement prior to the first vest date in order for you to receive the Award granted to you hereunder.  If you wish to decline this Award, you must reject this Agreement prior to the first vest date.  For your benefit, if you have not rejected the Agreement prior to the first vest date, you will be deemed to have automatically accepted this Award and all the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.  Deemed acceptance will allow the shares to be released to you in a timely manner and once released, you waive any right to assert that you have not accepted the terms hereof. 
   This Agreement shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, as amended from time to time, except that, subject to Sections 20, 22 and 24, and the provisions of the Addendum hereto, the Award which is the subject of this Agreement may not be materially adversely affected by any amendment or termination of the Plan approved after the Award Date without your written consent. 
           13. 
    SEVERABILITY AND VALIDITY 
     The various provisions of this Agreement are severable, and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable. 
           14. 
    GOVERNING LAW, JURISDICTION AND VENUE 
     This Agreement and Award grant shall be governed by the substantive laws (but not the choice of law rules) of the State of Delaware.  The forum in which disputes arising under this Market Share Units grant and Agreement shall be decided depends on whether you are subject to the Mutual Arbitration Agreement. 
           (a) 
    If you are subject to the Mutual Arbitration Agreement, any dispute that arises under this Market Share Unit grant or Agreement shall be governed by the Mutual Arbitration Agreement.  Any application to a court under Section 1(a) of the Mutual Arbitration Agreement for temporary or preliminary injunctive relief in aid of arbitration or for the maintenance of the status quo pending arbitration shall exclusively be brought and conducted in the courts of Wilmington, Delaware, or the federal courts for the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, and no other courts where this Market Share Unit grant is made and/or performed.  The parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware for purposes of any such application for injunctive relief. 
       12 

(b) 
    If you are not subject to the Mutual Arbitration Agreement, this Agreement and Award grant shall be governed by the substantive laws (but not the choice of law rules) of the State of Delaware.  For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises under this Market Share Unit grant or Agreement, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, agree that such litigation shall exclusively be conducted in the courts of Wilmington, Delaware, or the federal courts for the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, and no other courts where this Market Share Unit grant is made and/or performed. 
      This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors, assigns, and heirs of the respective parties. 
   You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. 
  You understand that the Company, any subsidiary and/or the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security number or other identification number (e.g., resident registration number), salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all MSUs or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor ( Data ), for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan. 
  You understand that Data may be transferred to Fidelity, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which assists in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  You understand that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipient's country (e.g. the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.  In this case, appropriate safeguards will be taken by the Company to ensure that your Data is processed with an adequate level of protection and in compliance with applicable local laws and regulation (especially through contractual clauses like European Model Clauses for European countries).  You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative.  You authorize the Company, Fidelity and other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the shares of Common Stock received upon vesting of the MSUs may be deposited.  You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan.  You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting your local human resources representative.  Further, you understand that you are providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis.  If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you MSUs or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards.  Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan.  For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative. 
           17. 
    ELECTRONIC DELIVERY AND ACCEPTANCE 
     The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means.  You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic systems established and maintained by the Company or a third-party designated by the Company. 
    13 

18. 
    INSIDER TRADING/MARKET ABUSE LAWS  
     You acknowledge that, depending on your country of residence, you may be subject to insider trading restrictions and/or market abuse laws, which may affect your ability to acquire or sell shares of Common Stock or rights to shares of Common Stock (  e.g  ., MSUs) under the Plan during such times as you are considered to have  inside information  regarding the Company (as defined by the laws in your country).  Any restrictions under these laws or regulations are separate from and in addition to any restrictions that may be imposed under any applicable Company insider trading policy.  You acknowledge that it is your responsibility to comply with any applicable restrictions, and you should speak to your personal advisor on this matter. 
   If you have received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control. 
           20. 
    COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS 
     Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan or this Agreement, unless there is an available exemption from any registration, qualification or other legal requirement applicable to the shares of Common Stock, you understand that the Company will not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock pursuant to the vesting of the MSUs, if the issuance of such Common Stock shall constitute a violation by you or the Company of any provision of law or regulation of any governmental authority.  Further, you agree that the Company shall have unilateral authority to amend the Plan and the Agreement without your consent to the extent necessary to comply with securities or other laws applicable to issuance of shares.  Any determination by the Company in this regard shall be final, binding and conclusive. 
           21. 
    ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND NO ORAL MODIFICATION OR WAIVER 
     This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties, provided that, if you are subject to the Mutual Arbitration Agreement, then the Mutual Arbitration Agreement is hereby incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement.  Subject to Sections 20, 22 and 24, and the provisions of the Addendum, this Agreement shall not be modified or amended except in writing duly signed by the parties, except that the Company may adopt a modification or amendment to the Agreement that is not materially adverse to you in writing signed only by the Company.  Any waiver of any right or failure to perform under this Agreement shall be in writing signed by the party granting the waiver and shall not be deemed a waiver of any subsequent failure to perform. 
   Your MSUs shall be subject to any special provisions set forth in the Addendum to this Agreement for your country, if any.  If you relocate to one of the countries included in the Addendum, the special provisions for such country shall apply to you, without your consent, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such provisions is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons.  The Addendum, if any, constitutes part of this Agreement. 
           23. 
    FOREIGN ASSET/ACCOUNT REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND EXCHANGE CONTROLS 
     Your country may have certain foreign asset and/or foreign account reporting requirements and exchange controls which may affect your ability to acquire or hold shares of Common Stock under the Plan or cash received from participating in the Plan (including from any dividends paid on shares of Common Stock sale proceeds resulting from the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan) in a brokerage or bank account outside your country.  You may be required to report such accounts, assets or transactions to the tax or other authorities in your country.  You also may be required to repatriate sale proceeds or other funds received as a result of your participation in the Plan to your country through a designated bank or broker within a certain time after receipt.  You acknowledge that it is your responsibility to be compliant with such regulations, and you should consult your personal legal advisor for any details. 
    14 

24. 
    IMPOSITION OF OTHER REQUIREMENTS 
     The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the MSUs and on any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.  
                     
    For the Company 
        
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 

By 

I have read this Agreement in its entirety.  I understand that this Award has been granted to provide a means for me to acquire and/or expand an ownership position in Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.  I acknowledge and agree that sales of shares will be subject to the Company s policies regulating trading by employees.  In accepting this Award, I hereby agree that Fidelity, or such other vendor as the Company may choose to administer the Plan, may provide the Company with any and all account information for the administration of this Award. 
    
   I hereby agree to all the terms, restrictions and conditions set forth in the Agreement, including, but not limited to, post-employment obligations related to non-competition and non-solicitation. 
    15 

Addendum 
    
  BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY 
  SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR MSUs IN CERTAIN COUNTRIES 
    
  Unless otherwise provided below, capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Agreement.  This Addendum includes special country-specific terms that apply if you are residing and/or working in one of the countries listed below. This Addendum is part of the Agreement. 
  This Addendum also includes information of which you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Plan.  For example, certain individual exchange control reporting requirements may apply upon vesting of the MSUs and/or sale of Common Stock.  The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws in effect in the respective countries as of January 2016 and is provided for informational purposes.  Such laws are often complex and change frequently, and results may be different based on the particular facts and circumstances.  As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you do not rely on the information noted herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at the time your MSUs vest or are settled, or you sell shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan. 
  In addition, the information is general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of any particular result.  Accordingly, you should seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation. 
  Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you currently are residing and/or working, transfer employment after the MSUs are granted to you, or are considered a resident of another country for local law purposes, the information contained herein for the country you are residing and/or working in at the time of grant may not be applicable to you, and the Company shall, in its discretion, determine to what extent the terms and conditions contained herein shall be applicable to you.  If you transfer residency and/or employment to another country or are considered a resident of another country listed in the Addendum after the MSUs are granted to you, the terms and/or information contained for that new country (rather than the original grant country) may be applicable to you.   
  All Countries 
  Retirement.   The following provision supplements Sections 2(c) and 2(d) of the Agreement: 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company receives a legal opinion that there has been a legal judgment and/or legal development in your jurisdiction that likely would result in the favorable treatment that applies to the MSUs in the event of your Retirement being deemed unlawful and/or discriminatory, the provisions of Sections 2(c) and (d) regarding the treatment of the MSUs in the event of your Retirement shall not be applicable to you. 
  Algeria 
  Exchange Control Information.    Proceeds from the settlement of MSUs, the sale of Common Stock and the receipt of any dividends must be repatriated to Algeria.   
  Argentina 
  Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgement.    This provision supplements Section 7 of the Agreement: 
  By accepting the MSUs, you acknowledge and agree that the grant of MSUs is made by the Company (not the Employer) in its sole discretion and that the value of the MSUs or any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan shall not constitute salary or wages for any purpose under Argentine labor law, including, but not limited to, the calculation of (i) any labor benefits including, but not limited to, vacation pay, thirteenth salary, compensation in lieu of notice, annual bonus, disability, and leave of absence payments, etc., or (ii) any termination or severance indemnities or similar payments.    
    16 

If, notwithstanding the foregoing, any benefits under the Plan are considered salary or wages for any purpose under Argentine labor law, you acknowledge and agree that such benefits shall not accrue more frequently than on each vesting date. 
  Securities Law Information.    Neither the MSUs nor the underlying shares of Common Stock are publicly offered or listed on any stock exchange in Argentina.  The offer is private and not subject to the supervision of any Argentine governmental authority. 
  Exchange Control Information  .  You must comply with any and all Argentine currency exchange restrictions, approvals and reporting requirements in connection with your Award. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Argentinian residents must report any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan and held by the resident as of December 31st of each year to the Argentine tax authorities on their annual tax return for that year.  
    
  Australia 
  Compliance with Laws.    Notwithstanding anything else in the Agreement, you will not be entitled to and shall not claim any benefit under the Plan if the provision of such benefit would give rise to a breach of Part 2D.2 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), any other provision of that Act, or any other applicable statute, rule or regulation which limits or restricts the giving of such benefits.  Further, the Employer is under no obligation to seek or obtain the approval of its shareholders in general meeting for the purpose of overcoming any such limitation or restriction.  
  Austria 
  Exchange Control Information.    If you hold shares of Common Stock under the Plan outside of Austria (even if you hold them outside of Austria at a branch of an Austrian bank), you may be required to submit a report to the Austrian National Bank as follows: (i) on a quarterly basis if the value of the Common Stock as of any given quarter meets or exceeds  30,000,000; and (ii) on an annual basis if the value of the Common Stock as of December 31 meets or exceeds  5,000,000.  The deadline to file the quarterly report is the 15th day of the month following the end of the respective quarter.  The deadline to file the annual report is January 31 of the following year. 
  When shares of Common Stock are sold, there may be exchange control obligations if the cash proceeds from the sale are held outside Austria.  If the transaction volume of all your cash accounts abroad meets or exceeds  10,000,000, the movements and the balance of all accounts must be reported monthly, as of the last day of the month, on or before the fifteenth day of the following month.  If the transaction value of all cash accounts abroad is less than  10,000,000, no ongoing reporting requirements apply. 
  Belgium 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you are a Belgian resident, you are required to report any security or bank account (including brokerage accounts) you maintain outside of Belgium on your annual tax return.  In a separate report, you will be required to provide the National Bank of Belgium with certain details regarding such foreign accounts (including the account number, bank name and country in which any such account was opened).  The forms to complete this report are available on the website of the National Bank of Belgium. 
  Brazil 
  Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgement.    This provision supplements Section 7 of the Agreement: 
  By accepting the MSUs, you acknowledge and agree that (i) you are making an investment decision, (ii) shares of Common Stock will be issued to you only if the vesting conditions are met and you meet the employment conditions during the Restricted Period and (iii) the value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is not fixed and may increase or decrease in value over the Restricted Period. 
    17 

Compliance with Laws.    By accepting the MSUs, you agree that you will comply with Brazilian law when you vest in the MSUs and sell shares of Common Stock. You also agree to report and pay any and all taxes associated with the vesting of the MSUs, the sale of the shares of Common Stock acquired pursuant to the Plan and the receipt of any dividends. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You must prepare and submit a declaration of assets and rights held outside of Brazil to the Central Bank on an annual basis if you hold assets or rights valued at more than US$100,000.    Quarterly reporting is required if such amount exceeds US$100,000,000.    The assets and rights that must be reported include shares of Common Stock.   
  Tax on Financial Transaction (IOF)  .  Repatriation of funds (  e.g.  , sale proceeds) into Brazil and the conversion of USD into BRL associated with such fund transfers may be subject to the Tax on Financial Transactions.  It is your responsibility to comply with any applicable Tax on Financial Transactions arising from your participation in the Plan.   
  Bulgaria 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you make any payments to or receive any payments from abroad related to the Plan and the respective amount exceeds BGN 100,000, you should fill in and submit to the respective local bank a specific statistical form regarding the source of the income prior to the ordering of the payment or within thirty (30) days of receipt of a notice by the bank that the amount is in your bank account. 
  The Participant may also be required to report annually to the Bulgarian National Bank, as of March 31 of each year, details of the Participant s receivables in bank accounts held abroad as well as the Participant s securities held abroad if the aggregate value of such receivables and securities is equal to or exceeds BGN 50,000 as of December 31 of the previous calendar year. 
  Canada 
  Settlement of MSUs.    Notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, MSUs will be settled in shares of Common Stock only, not cash. 
  Securities Law Information.    You acknowledge and agree that you will sell shares of Common Stock acquired through participation in the Plan only outside of Canada through the facilities of a stock exchange on which the Common Stock is listed.  Currently, the shares of Common Stock are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.  
  Termination of Employment.    This provision replaces the second paragraph of Section 2(i)(v) of the Agreement: 
  In the event of your termination of employment or other service relationship (for any reason whatsoever, whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or the Plan, your right to vest in the MSUs, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of (1) the date upon which your employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries is terminated; (2) the date you are no longer actively employed by or providing services to the Company or any of its subsidiaries; or (3) the date you receive written notice of termination of employment, regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under applicable laws (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer employed or actively providing services for purposes of the MSUs (including whether you may still be considered employed or actively providing services while on a leave of absence). 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You may be required to report your foreign property on Form T1135 (Foreign Income Verification Statement) if the total cost of your foreign property exceeds C$100,000 at any time in the year.  Foreign property includes cash held outside of Canada and shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan, and it may include unvested MSUs.  The Form T1135 must be filed by April 30 of the following year.  When shares of Common Stock are acquired, their cost generally is the adjusted cost base ( ACB ) of the shares of Common Stock.  The ACB would ordinarily equal the fair market value of the shares of Common Stock at the time of acquisition, but if you own other shares of Common Stock of the same company, this ACB may have to be averaged with the ACB of the other shares of Common Stock.  You should consult with your personal tax advisor to determine your reporting requirements. 
    18 

The following provisions apply if you are resident in Quebec: 
  Language Acknowledgment 
  The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this Agreement, including this Addendum, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be provided to them in English. 
  Consentement relatif   la langue utilis e.  Les parties reconnaissent avoir express ment souhait  que la convention ( Agreement ) ainsi que cette Annexe, ainsi que tous les documents, avis et proc dures judiciares,  x cut s, donn s ou intent s en vertu de, ou li s directement ou indirectement   la pr sente convention, soient r dig s en langue anglaise.  
  Data Privacy.    This provision supplements Section 16 of the Agreement: 
  You hereby authorize the Company, the Employer and their representatives to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan.  You further authorize the Company and its subsidiaries to disclose and discuss the Plan with their advisors.  You further authorize the Company and its subsidiaries to record such information and to keep such information in your employee file. 
  Chile 
  Securities Law Information.    The offer of the MSUs constitutes a private offering in Chile effective as of the Award Date.  The offer of MSUs is made subject to general ruling n  336 of the Chilean Superintendence of Securities and Insurance ( SVS ).  The offer refers to securities not registered at the securities registry or at the foreign securities registry of the SVS, and, therefore, such securities are not subject to oversight of the SVS.  Given the MSUs are not registered in Chile, the Company is not required to provide information about the MSUs or shares of Common Stock in Chile.  Unless the MSUs and/or the shares of Common Stock are registered with the SVS, a public offering of such securities cannot be made in Chile. 
  Esta oferta de Unidades de Acciones Restringidas ( RSU ) constituye una oferta privada de valores en Chile y se inicia en la Fecha de la Concesi n.  Esta oferta de RSU se acoge a las disposiciones de la Norma de Car cter General N  336 ( NCG 336 ) de la Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros de Chile ( SVS ).  Esta oferta versa sobre valores no inscritos en el Registro de Valores o en el Registro de Valores Extranjeros que lleva la SVS, por lo que tales valores no est n sujetos a la fiscalizaci n de  sta.  Por tratarse los RSU de valores no registrados en Chile, no existe obligaci n por parte de la Compa  a de entregar en Chile informaci n p blica respecto de los RSU or sus Acciones.  Estos valores no podr n ser objeto de oferta p blica en Chile mientras no sean inscritos en el Registro de Valores correspondiente. 
  Exchange Control Information.    You are responsible for complying with foreign exchange requirements in Chile.  You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding any applicable exchange control obligations prior to vesting in the MSUs or receiving proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired at vesting or cash dividends.   
  You are not required to repatriate funds obtained from the sale of shares of Common Stock or the receipt of any dividends.  However, if you decide to repatriate such funds, you must do so through the Formal Exchange Market if the amount of funds exceeds US$10,000.  In such case, you must report the payment to a commercial bank or registered foreign exchange office receiving the funds.  If your aggregate investments held outside of Chile exceed US$5,000,000 (including shares of Common Stock and any cash proceeds obtained under the Plan) in the relevant calendar year, you must report the investments quarterly to the Central Bank.  Annex 3.1 of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations must be used to file this report.  Please note that exchange control regulations in Chile are subject to change. 
    19 

Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    The Chilean Internal Revenue Service (   CIRS   ) requires all taxpayers to provide information annually regarding:  (i) the taxes paid abroad which they will use as a credit against Chilean income taxes, and (ii) the results of foreign investments.  These annual reporting obligations must be complied with by submitting a sworn statement setting forth this information before March 15 of each year.  The forms to be used to submit the sworn statement are Tax Form 1853  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Credits for Taxes Paid Abroad  and Tax Form 1851  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Investments Held Abroad.   If you are not a Chilean citizen and have been a resident in Chile for less than three (3) years, you are exempt from the requirement to file Tax Form 1853.  These statements must be submitted electronically through the CIRS website:    www.sii.cl  .  
    
  Investments abroad also must be registered with the CIRS for you to be entitled to a foreign tax credit for any tax withheld on dividends abroad, if applicable, and such registration also provides evidence of the acquisition price of the shares of Common Stock (which will be zero) which you will need when the shares of Common Stock are sold.  You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding how to register with the CIRS. 
  China 
  The following provisions apply if you are subject to the exchange control regulations in China, as determined by the Company in its sole discretion: 
  Sales of Shares of Common Stock.    To comply with exchange control regulations in China, you agree that the Company is authorized to force the sale of shares of Common Stock to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the MSUs at any time (including immediately upon vesting or after termination of your employment, as described below), and you expressly authorize the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of such shares of Common Stock.  You agree to sign any agreements, forms and/or consents that may be reasonably requested by the Company (or the designated broker) to effectuate the sale of the shares of Common Stock and shall otherwise cooperate with the Company with respect to such matters, provided that you shall not be permitted to exercise any influence over how, when or whether the sales occur.  You acknowledge that the Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the shares of Common Stock at any particular price.   
  Upon the sale of the shares of Common Stock, the Company agrees to pay the cash proceeds from the sale of Common Stock (less any applicable Tax-Related Items, brokerage fees or commissions) to you in accordance with applicable exchange control laws and regulations including, but not limited to, the restrictions set forth in this Addendum for China below under  Exchange Control Information.   Due to fluctuations in the Common Stock price and/or applicable exchange rates between the vesting date and (if later) the date on which the shares of Common Stock are sold, the amount of proceeds ultimately distributed to you may be more or less than the market value of the shares of Common Stock on the vesting date (which typically is the amount relevant to determining your Tax-Related Items liability).  You understand and agree that the Company is not responsible for the amount of any loss you may incur and that the Company assumes no liability for any fluctuations in the Common Stock price and/or any applicable exchange rate. 
  Treatment of Shares of Common Stock and MSUs Upon Termination of Employment.    Due to exchange control regulations in China, you understand and agree that any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan and held by you in your brokerage account must be sold no later than the last business day of the month following the month of your termination of employment, or within such other period as determined by the Company or required by the China State Administration of Foreign Exchange ( SAFE ) (the  Mandatory Sale Date ).  This includes any portion of shares of Common Stock that vest upon your termination of employment.  For example, if your termination of employment occurs on March 14, 2016, then the Mandatory Sale Date will be April 30, 2016.  You understand that any shares of Common Stock held by you that have not been sold by the Mandatory Sale Date will automatically be sold by the Company s designated broker at the Company s direction (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent), as described under "Sales of Shares of Common Stock" above.  
  If all or a portion of your MSUs become distributable upon your termination of employment or at some time following your termination of employment, that portion will vest and become distributable immediately upon termination of your employment. Any shares of Common Stock distributed to you according to this paragraph must be sold by the Mandatory Sale Date or will be sold by the Company s designated broker at the Company s direction (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent), as described under "Sales of Shares of Common Stock" above.  You will not continue to vest in MSUs or be entitled to any portion of MSUs after your termination of employment. 
    20 

Exchange Control Information  .  You understand and agree that, to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements, you are required to hold any shares of Common Stock to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the MSUs in the account that has been established for you with the Company's designated broker and you acknowledge that you are prohibited from transferring any such shares of Common Stock to another brokerage account.  In addition, you are required to immediately repatriate to China the cash proceeds from the sale of the shares of Common Stock issued upon vesting and settlement of the MSUs and any dividends paid on such shares of Common Stock.  You further understand that, such repatriation of the cash proceeds will be effectuated through a special exchange control account established by the Company or its subsidiaries, and you hereby consent and agree that the proceeds may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to you.  The Company may deliver the proceeds to you in U.S. dollars or local currency at the Company s discretion.  If the proceeds are paid in U.S. dollars, you understand that you will be required to set up a U.S. dollar bank account in China so that the proceeds may be deposited into this account. If the proceeds are converted to local currency, there may be delays in delivering the proceeds to you and due to fluctuations in the Common Stock trading price and/or the U.S. dollar/PRC exchange rate between the sale/payment date and (if later) when the proceeds can be converted into local currency, the proceeds that you receive may be more or less than the market value of the Common Stock on the sale/payment date (which is the amount relevant to determining your tax liability).  You agree to bear the risk of any currency fluctuation between the sale/payment date and the date of conversion of the proceeds into local currency. 
  You further agree to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in China. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    PRC residents are required to report to SAFE details of their foreign financial assets and liabilities, as well as details of any economic transactions conducted with non-PRC residents, either directly or through financial institutions.  Under these rules, you may be subject to reporting obligations for the Common Stock or equity awards, including MSUs acquired under the Plan and Plan-related transactions.  It is your responsibility to comply with this reporting obligation and you should consult your personal advisor in this regard. 
  Colombia 
  Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgement.    By accepting your Award of MSUs, you acknowledge that pursuant to Article 128 of the Colombia Labor Code, the Plan and related benefits do not constitute a component of  salary  for any purposes. 
  Exchange Control Information.    Investments in assets located outside of Colombia (including Common Stock) are subject to registration with the Central Bank (  Banco de la Rep blica  ) if the aggregate value of such investments is US$500,000 or more (as of December 31 of the applicable calendar year).  Further, upon the sale of any Common Stock that you have registered with the Central Bank, you must cancel the registration by March 31 of the following year.  You may be subject to fines if you fail to cancel such registration.   
  Securities Law Information.    The shares of Common Stock are not and will not be registered with the Colombian registry of publicly traded securities (  Registro Nacional de Valores y Emisores  ) and therefore the shares of Common Stock may not be offered to the public in Colombia.  Nothing in this document should be construed as the making of a public offer of securities in Colombia. 
  Czech Republic 
  Exchange Control Information.    The Czech National Bank may require you to fulfill certain notification duties in relation to the MSUs and the opening and maintenance of a foreign account.  However, because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your personal legal advisor prior to the vesting of the MSUs and the sale of shares of Common Stock to ensure compliance with current regulations.  It is your responsibility to comply with any applicable Czech exchange control laws. 
    21 

Denmark 
  Stock Option Act.    You acknowledge that you have received an Employer Statement in Danish. Notwithstanding any provisions in the Agreement to the contrary, if you are determined to be an  Employee,  as defined in section 2 of the Danish Act on the Use of Rights to Purchase or Subscribe for Shares etc. in Employment Relationships (the  Stock Option Act ), the treatment of the MSUs upon termination of employment shall be governed by the Stock Option Act.  However, if the provisions in the Agreement or the Plan governing the treatment of the MSUs upon termination of employment are more favorable, the provisions of the Agreement or the Plan will govern.  
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you establish an account holding shares of Common Stock or an account holding cash outside Denmark, you must report the account to the Danish Tax Administration.  The form may be obtained from a local bank.  Please note that these obligations are separate from and in addition to the obligations described below. 
  Securities/Tax Reporting Information.    If you hold shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan in a brokerage account with a broker or bank outside Denmark, you are required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about the account.  For this purpose, you must file a Form V (Erklaering V) with the Danish Tax Administration.  Both you and the broker or bank must sign the Form V.  By signing the Form V, the broker or bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the shares of Common Stock in the account. In the event that the applicable broker or bank with which the account is held does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to report, you acknowledge that you are solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account and any shares of Common Stock acquired at vesting and held in such account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of your annual income tax return.  By signing the Form V, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.  A sample of the Form V can be found at the following website:   www.skat.dk  . 
  In addition, if you open a brokerage account (or a deposit account with a U.S. bank), the brokerage account likely will be treated as a deposit account because cash can be held in the account.  Therefore, you likely must file a Form K (Erklaering K) with the Danish Tax Administration.  The Form K must be signed both by you and by the applicable broker or bank where the account is held.  By signing the Form K, the broker/bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the account.  In the event that the applicable financial institution (broker or bank) with which the account is held, does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to report, you acknowledge that you are solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of your annual income tax return. By signing the Form K, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.  A sample of the Form K can be found at the following website:   www.skat.dk  .  
  Egypt 
  Exchange Control Information.    If you transfer funds into Egypt in connection with the MSUs, you are required to transfer the funds through a registered bank in Egypt. 
  Estonia  
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Finland 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    22 

France 
  Language Acknowledgement 
  En signant et renvoyant le pr sent document d crivant les termes et conditions de votre attribution, vous confirmez ainsi avoir lu et compris les documents relatifs   cette attribution (le Plan et ce Contrat d Attribution) qui vous ont  t  communiqu s en langue anglaise. 
  By accepting your MSUs, you confirm having read and understood the documents relating to this grant (the Plan and this Agreement) which were provided to you in English. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you hold shares of Common Stock outside of France or maintain a foreign bank account, (including accounts that were opened and closed during the tax year) you are required to report such to the French tax authorities when filing your annual tax return.  Failure to comply could trigger significant penalties.  Further, if you have a foreign account balance exceeding  1,000,000, you may have additional monthly reporting obligations. 
  Germany 
  Exchange Control Information.    Cross-border payments in excess of  12,500 must be reported to the German Federal Bank.  From September 2013, the German Federal Bank no longer accepts reports in paper form and all reports must be filed electronically. The electronic  General Statistics Reporting Portal  (  Allgemeines Meldeportal Statistik  ) can be accessed on the German Federal Bank s website: www.bundesbank.de. 
  In the event that you make or receive a payment in excess of this amount, you are responsible for complying with applicable reporting requirements.   
  Greece 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Hong Kong 
  Securities Law Information.      Warning:  The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong.  You are advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer.  If you are in any doubt about any of the contents of the Agreement, including this Addendum, or the Plan, or any other incidental communication materials, you should obtain independent professional advice.  The MSUs and any shares of Common Stock issued at vesting do not constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to employees of the Company or its subsidiaries.  The Agreement, including this Addendum, the Plan and other incidental communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a  prospectus  for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong.  The MSUs are intended only for the personal use of each eligible employee of the Employer, the Company or any subsidiary and may not be distributed to any other person.   
  Settlement of MSUs and Sale of Common Stock.    Notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, MSUs will be settled in shares of Common Stock only, not cash.  In addition, notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, no shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan can be offered to the public or otherwise disposed of prior to six months from the Award Date.  Any shares of Common Stock received at vesting are accepted as a personal investment. 
  Nature of Scheme.    The Company specifically intends that the Plan will not be an occupational retirement scheme for purposes of the Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance ( ORSO ).   
  Hungary 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
    23 

India 
  Exchange Control Information.    You must repatriate all proceeds received from the sale of shares to India within 90 days of receipt and all proceeds from the receipt of cash dividends with 180 days of receipt.  You must maintain the foreign inward remittance certificate received from the bank where the foreign currency is deposited in the event that the Reserve Bank of India or the Company or the Employer requests proof of repatriation.  It is your responsibility to comply with applicable exchange control laws in India. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You are required to declare in your annual tax return (a) any foreign assets held by you or (b) any foreign bank accounts for which you have signing authority.    Increased penalties for failing to report these foreign assets/accounts have been introduced.      You are responsible for complying with this reporting obligation and is advised to confer with your personal legal advisor in this regard. 
  Ireland 
  Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and MSUs.    This provision supplements Section 7 of the Agreement: 
    
  In accepting this Agreement, you understand and agree that the benefits received under the Plan will not be taken into account for any redundancy or unfair dismissal claim. 
  Israel 
  Settlement of MSUs and Sale of Common Stock  .  Upon the vesting of the MSUs, you agree to the immediate sale of any shares of Common Stock to be issued to you upon vesting and settlement of the MSUs.  You further agree that the Company is authorized to instruct its designated broker to assist with the mandatory sale of such shares of Common Stock (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization) and you expressly authorize the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of such shares of Common Stock.  You acknowledge that the Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the shares of Common Stock at any particular price.  Upon the sale of the shares of Common Stock, the Company agrees to pay the cash proceeds from the sale of the Common Stock to you, less any brokerage fees or commissions and subject to any obligation to satisfy Tax-Related Items.  Due to fluctuations in the Common Stock price and/or applicable exchange rates between the vesting date and (if later) the date on which the shares of Common Stock are sold, the amount of proceeds ultimately distributed to you may be more or less than the market value of the shares of Common Stock on the vesting date (which typically is the amount relevant to determining your Tax-Related Items liability).  You understand and agree that the Company is not responsible for the amount of any loss you may incur and that the Company assumes no liability for any fluctuations in the Common Stock price and/or any applicable exchange rate.   
  Italy 
  Data Privacy Notice.    This section replaces Section 16 of the Agreement: 
  You understand that the Company and the Employer are the privacy representatives of the Company in Italy and may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of Common Stock or directorships held in the Company or any subsidiaries, details of all MSUs or any other entitlement to Common Stock awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, and that the Company and the Employer will process said data and other data lawfully received from third parties ( Personal Data ) for the exclusive purpose of managing and administering the Plan and complying with applicable laws, regulations and Community legislation. You also understand that providing the Company with Personal Data is mandatory for compliance with laws and is necessary for the performance of the Plan and that your denial to provide Personal Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. You understand that Personal Data will not be publicized, but it may be accessible by the Employer as the privacy representative of the Company and within the Employer s organization by its internal and external personnel in charge of processing, and by Fidelity or any other data processor appointed by the Company. The updated list of processors and of the subjects to which Data are communicated will remain available upon request from the Employer. Furthermore, Personal Data may be transferred to banks, other financial institutions or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan.  You understand that Personal Data may also be transferred to the independent  
    24 

registered public accounting firm engaged by the Company, and also to the legitimate addressees under applicable laws. You further understand that the Company and its subsidiaries will transfer Personal Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of your participation in the Plan, and that the Company and its subsidiaries may each further transfer Personal Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer of Personal Data to Fidelity or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan or any proceeds from the sale of such Common Stock.  Such recipients may receive, possess, use, retain and transfer Personal Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.  You understand that these recipients may be acting as controllers, processors or persons in charge of processing, as the case may be, according to applicable privacy laws, and that they may be located in or outside the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere, in countries that do not provide an adequate level of data protection as intended under Italian privacy law.   
  Should the Company exercise its discretion in suspending all necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan, it will delete Personal Data as soon as it has accomplished all the necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan. 
  You understand that Personal Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Personal Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003. 
  The processing activity, including communication, the transfer of Personal Data abroad, including outside of the European Economic Area, as specified herein and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require your consent thereto as the processing is necessary to performance of law and contractual obligations related to implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  You understand that, pursuant to section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, you have the right at any moment to, including, but not limited to, obtain confirmation that Personal Data exists or not, access, verify its contents, origin and accuracy, delete, update, integrate, correct, block or stop, for legitimate reason, the Personal Data processing. To exercise privacy rights, you should contact the Employer. Furthermore, you are aware that Personal Data will not be used for direct marketing purposes.  In addition, Personal Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting your human resources department. 
  Plan Document Acknowledgment.    By accepting the MSUs, you acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan, reviewed the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan, the Agreement and this Addendum. 
  In addition, you further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and expressly approve without limitation the following clauses in the Agreement:  Section 4 (Responsibility for Taxes); Section 7 (Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and MSUs); Section 8 (No Advice Regarding Grant); Section 9 (Right to Continued Employment); Section 11 (Deemed Acceptance); Section 13 (Severability and Validity); Section 14 (Governing Law, Jurisdiction and Venue); Section 16 (Data Privacy, as replaced by the above provision in this Addendum); Section 17 (Electronic Delivery and Acceptance); Section 18 (Insider Trading/Market Abuse Laws); Section 19 (Language); Section 20 (Compliance with Laws and Regulations); Section 21 (Entire Agreement and No Oral Modification or Waiver); Section 22 (Addendum); Section 23 (Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Requirements and Exchange Controls); and Section 24 (Imposition of Other Requirements). 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you are an Italian resident who, at any time during the fiscal year, holds foreign financial assets (including cash and shares of Common Stock) which may generate income taxable in Italy, you are required to report these assets on your annual tax return for the year during which the assets are held, or on a special form if no tax return is due.  These reporting obligations also apply if you are the beneficial owner of foreign financial assets under Italian money laundering provisions.   
  Tax Information.    Italian residents may be subject to tax on the value of financial assets held outside of Italy.  The taxable amount will be the fair market value of the financial assets, assessed at the end of the calendar year. For the purposes of the market value assessment, the documentation issued by the Plan broker may be used.  If you are subject to this foreign financial assets tax, you will need to report the value of your financial assets held abroad in your annual tax return.  You are advised to consult your personal legal advisor for additional information about the foreign financial assets tax. 
    25 

Japan 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    If you are a resident of Japan or a foreign national who has established permanent residency in Japan, you will be required to report details of any assets (including any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan) held outside of Japan as of December 31st of each year, to the extent such assets have a total net fair market value exceeding  50,000,000. Such report will be due by March 15th of the following year.  You should consult with your personal tax advisor as to whether the reporting obligation applies to you and whether you will be required to report details of any outstanding MSUs or shares of Common Stock held by you in the report. 
  Korea 
  Exchange Control Information.    Korean residents who realize US$500,000 or more from the sale of shares of Common Stock or receipt of dividends in a single transaction are required to repatriate the proceeds to Korea within three years of receipt. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You will be required to declare all foreign accounts (  i.e.  , non-Korean bank accounts, brokerage accounts, etc.) to the Korean tax authorities and file a report if the monthly balance of such accounts exceeds a certain limit (currently KRW 1 billion or an equivalent amount in foreign currency).  You should consult with your personal tax advisor on how to value foreign accounts for purposes of this reporting requirement and whether you are required to file a report with respect to such account. 
  Kuwait 
  Securities Law Notification.    This Plan does not constitute the marketing or offering of securities in Kuwait pursuant to Law No. 7 of 2010 (establishing the Capital Markets Authority) and its implementing regulations.  Offerings under the Plan are being made only to eligible employees of your Employer or the Company or any other subsidiary or affiliate of the Company. 
  Luxembourg 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Mexico 
  Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgment.    By accepting this Award, you expressly recognize that the Company, with offices at     345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154, U.S.A., is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and that your participation in the Plan and acquisition of shares does not constitute an employment relationship between you and the Company since you are participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and your sole employer is Bristol-Myers Squibb Company in Mexico ( BMS-Mexico ), not the Company in the United States.  Based on the foregoing, you expressly recognize that the Plan and the benefits that you may derive from participation in the Plan do not establish any rights between you and your employer, BMS-Mexico, and do not form part of the employment conditions and/or benefits provided by BMS-Mexico and any modification of the Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of your employment. 
  You further understand that your participation in the Plan is as a result of a unilateral and discretionary decision of the Company; therefore, the Company reserves the absolute right to amend and/or discontinue your participation at any time without any liability to you. 
  Finally, you hereby declare that you do not reserve to yourself any action or right to bring any claim against the Company for any compensation or damages regarding any provision of the Plan or the benefits derived under the Plan, and you therefore grant a full and broad release to the Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates, branches, representation offices, its shareholders, officers, agents or legal representatives with respect to any claim that may arise. 
    26 

Pol tica Laboral y Reconocimiento/Aceptaci n.    Aceptando este Premio, el participante reconoce que     la Compa  a, with offices at     345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154, U.S.A., es el  nico responsable de la administraci n del Plan y que la participaci n del Participante en el mismo y la adquisicion de acciones no constituye de ninguna manera una relaci n laboral entre el Participante y la Compa  a, toda vez que la participaci n del participante en el Plan deriva  nicamente de una relaci n comercial con la Compa  a, reconociendo expresamente que el  nico empleador del participante lo es Bristol-Myers Squibb Company en Mexico     ( BMS-Mexico ), no es la Compa  a en los Estados Unidos.  Derivado de lo anterior, el participante expresamente reconoce que el Plan y los beneficios que pudieran derivar del mismo no establecen ning n derecho entre el participante y su empleador, BMS-M xico, y no forman parte de las condiciones laborales y/o prestaciones otorgadas por BMS-M xico, y expresamente el participante reconoce que cualquier modificaci n el Plan o la terminaci n del mismo de manera alguna podr  ser interpretada como una modificaci n de los  condiciones de trabajo del participante. 
  Asimismo, el participante entiende que su participaci n en el Plan es resultado de la decisi n unilateral y discrecional de la Compa  a, por lo tanto, la Compa  a.  Se reserva el derecho absoluto para modificar y/o terminar la participaci n del participante en cualquier momento, sin ninguna responsabilidad para el participante. 
  Finalmente, el participante manifiesta que no se reserva ninguna acci n o derecho que origine una demanda en contra de la Compa  a, por cualquier compensaci n o da o en relaci n con cualquier disposici n del Plan o de los beneficios derivados del mismo, y en consecuencia el participante otorga un amplio y total finiquito a la Compa  a, sus entidades relacionadas, afiliadas, sucursales, oficinas de representaci n, sus accionistas, directores, agentes y representantes legales con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera surgir. 
  Netherlands 
  Securities Law Information.    Attention!  This investment falls outside AFM supervision.  No prospectus required for this activity. 
  Norway 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Oman 
  Securities Law Notification.    This Plan does not constitute the marketing or offering of securities in Oman and consequently has not been registered or approved by the Central Bank of Oman, the Omani Ministry of Commerce and Industry, the Omani Capital Market Authority or any other authority in the Sultanate of Oman.  Offerings under the Plan are being made only to eligible employees of your Employer or the Company or any other subsidiary, affiliate or joint venture of the Company. 
  Peru 
  Securities Law Information.    The grant of MSUs is considered a private offering in Peru; therefore, it is not subject to registration. 
  Labor Law Acknowledgement.    The following provision supplements Section 7 of the Agreement: 
  In accepting the Award of MSUs pursuant to this Agreement, you acknowledge that the MSUs are being granted   ex gratia   to you with the purpose of rewarding you. 
  Poland 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Polish residents holding foreign securities (including shares of Common Stock) and maintaining accounts abroad must report information to the National Bank of Poland.  Specifically, if the aggregate value of shares and cash held in such foreign accounts exceeds PLN 7 million, Polish residents must file reports on the transactions and balances of the accounts on a quarterly basis on special forms that are available on the website of the National Bank of Poland.   
    27 

Exchange Control Information.    Polish residents are required to transfer funds (  i.e  ., in connection with the sale of shares of Common Stock) through a bank account in Poland if the transferred amount in any single transaction exceeds a specified threshold (currently  15,000).  If you are a Polish resident, you must also retain all documents connected with any foreign exchange transactions you engage in for a period of five years, as measured from the end of the year in which such transaction occurred.  
  You should consult with your personal legal advisor to determine what you must do to fulfill any applicable reporting/exchange control duties. 
  Portugal 
  Language Consent.    You hereby expressly declare that you have full knowledge of the English language and have read, understood and fully accepted and agreed with the terms and conditions established in the Plan and the Agreement. 
  Conhecimento da Lingua.  Voc  expressamente declara ter pleno conhecimento do idioma ingl s e ter lido, entendido e totalmente aceito e concordou com os termos e condi  es estabelecidas no plano e no acordo. 
  Puerto Rico 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Romania 
  Exchange Control Information.    Any transfer of funds exceeding  15,000 (whether via one transaction or several transactions that appear to be linked to each other) must be reported to the National Office for Prevention and Control of Money Laundering on specific forms by the relevant bank or financial institution.      If you deposit the proceeds from the sale of your shares of Common Stock in a bank account in Romania, you may have to provide the Romanian bank through which the operations are effected with appropriate documentation regarding the receipt of the income.  You should consult with a personal legal advisor to determine whether you will be required to submit such documentation to the Romanian bank. 
  Russia 
  Exchange Control Information.    You acknowledge that you must repatriate the proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock within a reasonably short time of receipt.  Such amounts must be initially credited to you through a foreign currency account opened in your name at an authorized bank in Russia.  After the funds are initially received in Russia, they may be further remitted to foreign banks subject to the following limitations:  (i) the foreign account may be opened only for individuals; (ii) the foreign account may not be used for business activities; and (iii) you must give notice to the Russian tax authorities about the opening/closing of each foreign account within one month of the account opening/closing.   Cash dividends (but not dividend equivalents) and cash income received from the transfer of funds and/or shares of Common Stock into the fiduciary/trust management of a non-resident do not need to be remitted to your bank account in Russia but instead can be remitted directly to a foreign individual bank account (in Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ( OECD ) and Financial Action Task Force ( FATF ) countries).  As from January 1, 2018, cash proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock listed on the Russian stock exchange or a foreign exchange on the legally approved list, currently including the New York Stock Exchange, also can be paid directly to your foreign bank account opened with a bank located in an OECD or FATF country.  
    
  You should consult your personal advisor before selling any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan and remitting any sale proceeds to Russia, as significant penalties may apply in the case of non-compliance with exchange control requirement and exchange control requirements are subject to change at any time, often without notice. 
    
    28 

Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    Russian residents are required to notify the Russian tax authorities within one month of opening or closing a foreign bank account, or of changing any account details.  Effective as of January 1, 2015, Russian residents also will be required to file annually with the Russian tax authorities reports of the transactions in his or her foreign bank accounts.  According to draft regulations implementing this law, the first annual report on an approved form for the reporting year 2015 should be due on or before June 1, 2016.  The tax authorities can require any supporting documents related to transactions in your foreign bank account.  
    
  Securities Law Information.    These materials do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia nor do they constitute placement of the shares of Common Stock in Russia. Any shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the MSUs shall be delivered to you through a brokerage account in the U.S.  You may hold shares in your brokerage account in the U.S.; however, in no event will shares issued to you and/or share certificates or other instruments be delivered to you in Russia.      The issuance of Common Stock pursuant to the MSUs described herein has not and will not be registered in Russia and hence, the shares of Common Stock described herein may not be admitted or used for offering, placement or public circulation in Russia. 
  U.S. Transaction.    You are not permitted to make any public advertising or announcements regarding the MSUs or Common Stock in Russia, or promote these shares to other Russian legal entities or individuals, and you are not permitted to sell or otherwise dispose of Common Stock directly to other Russian legal entities or individuals.  You are permitted to sell shares of Common Stock only on the New York Stock Exchange and only through a U.S. broker. 
  Data Privacy Consent.    This section replaces Section 16 of the Agreement: 
  You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. 
  You understand that the Company, any subsidiary and/or the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all MSUs or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor ( Data ), for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan. 
  You understand that Data may be transferred to Fidelity, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which assists in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  You understand that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipient's country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.  In this case, appropriate safeguards will be taken by the Company to ensure that your Data is processed with an adequate level of protection and in compliance with applicable local laws and regulation (especially through contractual clauses like European Model Clauses for European countries).      You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the International Compensation and Benefits Group.  You authorize the Company, Fidelity and other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the shares of Common Stock received upon vesting of the MSUs may be deposited.  You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan.  You understand that if you reside outside the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case and without cost, by contacting in writing the International Compensation and Benefits Group.  Further, you understand that you are providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis.  If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you MSUs or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards.  Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan.  For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact the International Compensation and Benefits Group. 
    29 

Labor Law Information.    You acknowledge that if you continue to hold shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan after an involuntary termination of your employment, you may not be eligible to receive unemployment benefits in Russia. 
  Anti-Corruption Information.    Anti-corruption laws prohibit certain public servants, their spouses and their dependent children from owning any foreign source financial instruments (  e.g  ., shares of foreign companies such as the Company).  Accordingly, you should inform the Company if you are covered by these laws because you should not hold shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan. 
  Saudi Arabia 
  Securities Law Information.    This document may not be distributed in the Kingdom except to such persons as are permitted under the Offers of Securities Regulations issued by the Capital Market Authority. 
  The Capital Market Authority does not make any representation as to the accuracy or completeness of this document, and expressly disclaims any liability whatsoever for any loss arising from, or incurred in reliance upon, any part of this document. Prospective purchasers of the securities offered hereby should conduct their own due diligence on the accuracy of the information relating to the securities. If you do not understand the contents of this document you should consult an authorized financial advisor. 
  Singapore 
  Restrictions on Sale and Transferability  . You hereby agrees that any shares of Common Stock acquired pursuant to the MSUs will not be offered for sale in Singapore prior to the six-month anniversary of the Award Date, unless such sale or offer is made pursuant to the exemptions under Part XIII Division 1 Subdivision (4) (other than section 280) of the Securities and Futures Act (Chap. 289, 2006 Ed.) ( SFA ). 
  Securities Law Information.    The grant of MSUs is being made in reliance of section 273(1)(f) of the SFA for which it is exempt from the prospectus and registration requirements under the SFA and is not made to you with a view to the MSUs being subsequently offered for sale to any other party.  The Plan has not been lodged or registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore. 
  Chief Executive Officer and Director Notification Requirement.    If you are the Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) or a director, associate director or shadow director of a Singapore company, you are subject to certain notification requirements under the Singapore Companies Act.  Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Singapore company in writing when you receive an interest (  e.g.  , MSUs, Common Stock) in the Company or any related companies.  In addition, you must notify the Singapore company when you sell shares of the Company or any related company (including when you sell shares of     Common Stock acquired pursuant to your MSUs).  These notifications must be made within two business days of acquiring or disposing of any interest in the Company or any related company.  In addition, a notification must be made of your interests in the Company or any related company within two business days of becoming the CEO or a director. 
  South Africa 
  Responsibility for Taxes.    The following provision supplements Section 4 (  Responsibility for Taxes  ) of this Agreement: 
  You are required to immediately notify the Employer of the amount of any gain realized at vesting of the MSUs.  If you fail to advise the Employer of such gain, you may be liable for a fine. 
  Exchange Control Information.    You are solely responsible for complying with applicable South African exchange control regulations, and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from failure to comply with applicable laws.  In particular, if you are a resident for exchange control purposes, you are required to obtain approval from the South African Reserve Bank for payments (including payment of proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock) that you receive into accounts based outside of South Africa (  e.g.  , a U.S. brokerage account).  Because the exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your legal advisor prior to the acquisition or sale of shares of Common Stock under the Plan to ensure compliance with current regulations.   
    30 

Spain 
  Exchange Control Information.    If you acquire shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the MSUs and wish to import the ownership title of such shares (  i.e  ., share certificates) into Spain, you must declare the importation of such securities to the Spanish   Direccion General de Pol tica Comercial y de Inversiones Extranjeras   (the  DGPCIE ).  Generally, the declaration must be made in January for shares of Common Stock acquired or sold during (or owned as of December 31 of) the prior year; however, if the value of shares acquired or sold exceeds the applicable threshold (currently  1,502,530) (or you hold 10% or more of the share capital of the Company or such other amount that would entitle you to join the Company s board of directors), the declaration must be filed within one month of the acquisition or sale, as applicable. In addition, you also must file a declaration of ownership of foreign securities with the Directorate of Foreign Transactions each January.  
  When receiving foreign currency payments derived pursuant to the MSUs (e.g., proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock), you must inform the financial institution receiving the payment of the basis upon which such payment is made if the payment exceeds  50,000.  Upon request, you will need to provide the institution with the following information: your name, address, and fiscal identification number; the name and corporate domicile of the Company; the amount of the payment; the currency used; the country of origin; the reasons for the payment; and any additional information required. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information.    You are required to electronically declare to the Bank of Spain any security accounts (including brokerage accounts held abroad), as well as the security (including shares of Common Stock acquired at vesting of MSUs) held in such accounts and any transactions carried out with non-residents if the value of the transactions for all such accounts during the prior year or the balances in such accounts as of December 31 of the prior year exceeds  1,000,000.  If neither the total balances nor total transactions with non-residents during the relevant period exceed  50,000,000 a summarized form declaration may be used.  More frequent reporting is required if such transaction value or account balance exceeds  100,000,000. 
  In addition, to the extent you hold shares of Common Stock and/or have bank accounts outside of Spain with a value in excess of  50,000 for each type of-asset) as of December 31, you will be required to report information on such assets on your tax return for such year.  After such shares of Common Stock and/or accounts are initially reported, the reporting obligation will apply for subsequent years only if the value of any previously reported shares of Common Stock or accounts increases by more than  20,000 as of each subsequent December 31.   
  Labor Law Acknowledgment.    This provision supplements Sections 2(h) and 7 of the Agreement: 
  By accepting the MSUs, you consent to participation in the Plan and acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan document. 
  You understand     and agree that, as a condition of the grant of the MSUs, except as provided for in Section 2 of the Agreement, your termination of employment for any reason (including for the reasons listed below) will automatically result in the forfeiture of any MSUs that have not vested on the date of your termination.  
  In particular, you understand and agree that, unless otherwise provided in the Agreement, the MSUs will be forfeited without entitlement to the underlying shares of Common Stock or to any amount as indemnification in the event of a termination of your employment prior to vesting by reason of, including, but not limited to: resignation, disciplinary dismissal adjudged to be with cause, disciplinary dismissal adjudged or recognized to be without good cause (  i.e.  , subject to a  despido improcedente ), individual or collective layoff on objective grounds, whether adjudged to be with cause or adjudged or recognized to be without cause, material modification of the terms of employment under Article 41 of the Workers  Statute, relocation under Article 40 of the Workers  Statute, Article 50 of the Workers  Statute, unilateral withdrawal by the Employer, and under Article 10.3 of Royal Decree 1382/1985. 
  Furthermore, you understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and discretionally decided to grant MSUs under the Plan to individuals who may be employees of the Company or a subsidiary.  The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or any subsidiary on an ongoing basis, other than as expressly set forth in the Agreement.  Consequently, you understand that the MSUs are granted on the assumption and condition that the MSUs and the shares of Common Stock underlying the MSUs shall not become a part of any employment or service contract (either with the Company, the Employer or any  
    31 

subsidiary) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever.  In addition, you understand that the MSUs would not be granted to you but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, you acknowledge and freely accept that, should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then any Award of MSUs shall be null and void. 
  Securities Law Information.    The MSUs and the Common Stock described in the Agreement and this Addendum do not qualify under Spanish regulations as securities.  No  offer of securities to the public,  as defined under Spanish law, has taken place or will take place in the Spanish territory.  The Agreement (including this Addendum) has not been nor will it be registered with the   Comisi n Nacional del Mercado de Valores  , and does not constitute a public offering prospectus. 
  Sweden 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  Switzerland 
  Securities Law Information.    The MSUs are not intended to be publicly offered in or from Switzerland.  Because the offer of MSUs is considered a private offering, it is not subject to registration in Switzerland.  Neither this document nor any other materials relating to the MSUs constitutes a prospectus as such term is understood pursuant to article 652a of the Swiss Code of Obligations, and neither this document nor any other materials relating to the MSUs may be publicly distributed nor otherwise made publicly available in Switzerland. 
  Taiwan 
  Securities Law Information  .  The offer of participation in the Plan is available only for employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.  The offer of participation in the Plan is not a public offer of securities by a Taiwanese company. 
  Exchange Control Information  .  You may remit foreign currency (including proceeds from the sale of Common Stock) into or out of Taiwan up to US$5,000,000 per year without special permission.  If the transaction amount is TWD500,000 or more in a single transaction, you must submit a Foreign Exchange Transaction Form to the remitting bank and provide supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank.     
  Thailand 
  Exchange Control Information.    If the proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock or the receipt of dividends are equal to or greater than US$50,000 or more in a single transaction, you must repatriate the proceeds to Thailand immediately upon receipt and convert the funds to Thai Baht or deposit the proceeds in a foreign currency deposit account maintained by a bank in Thailand within 360 days of remitting the proceeds to Thailand. In addition you must report the inward remittance to the Bank of Thailand on a foreign exchange transaction form.  If you fail to comply with these obligations, you may be subject to penalties assessed by the Bank of Thailand.  Because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult your personal advisor before selling shares of Common Stock to ensure compliance with current regulations.  You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Thailand, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable laws. 
  Tunisia 
  Securities Law Information.    All proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock or the receipt of dividends must be repatriated to Tunisia.  You should consult your personal advisor before taking action with respect to remittance of proceeds into Tunisia.  You   may   be required to obtain prior authorization from the Central Bank of Tunisia ("CBT") for the acquisition of shares of Common Stock under the Plan.  Because you do not pay anything for the MSUs or the underlying shares of Common Stock, the application of this requirement to the MSUs is unclear.  For this reason, you should consult your personal legal advisor prior to vesting and settlement or, at the latest, prior to repatriation of any proceeds back to Tunisia at which time you may also be able to apply for any necessary authorization from the CBT.  You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Tunisia.  In addition, if you hold assets abroad in excess of a certain amount, you must report the assets to the CBT. 
    32 

Turkey 
  Securities Law Information.    Under Turkish law, you are not permitted to sell shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan in Turkey.  The shares of Common Stock are currently traded on the New York Stock Exchange, which is located outside of Turkey, under the ticker symbol  BMY  and the shares of Common Stock may be sold through this exchange. 
  Exchange Control Information.    In certain circumstances, Turkish residents are permitted to sell shares traded on a non-Turkish stock exchange only through a financial intermediary licensed in Turkey and should be reported to the Turkish Capital Markets Board.  Therefore, you may be required to appoint a Turkish broker to assist with the sale of the shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan.  You should consult your personal legal advisor before selling any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan to confirm the applicability of this requirement. 
  United Arab Emirates 
  Securities Law Information.    The Plan is only being offered to qualified employees and is in the nature of providing equity incentives to employees of the Company or its subsidiary or affiliate in the UAE.  Any documents related to the Plan, including the Plan, Plan prospectus and other grant documents ( Plan Documents ), are intended for distribution only to such employees and must not be delivered to, or relied on by, any other person.  Prospective purchasers of the securities offered should conduct their own due diligence on the securities. If you do not understand the contents of the Plan Documents, you should consult an authorized financial adviser. 
  The Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority has no responsibility for reviewing or verifying any Plan Documents  nor taken steps to verify the information set out in them, and thus, are not responsible for  such documents. 
    
  The securities to which this summary relates may be illiquid and/or subject to restrictions on their resale. Prospective purchasers of the securities offered should conduct their own due diligence on the securities. 
  United Kingdom 
  Responsibility for Taxes.    This provision supplements Section 4 of the Agreement:   
  You agree that, if you do not pay or the Employer or the Company does not withhold from you the full amount of income tax due in connection with the MSUs within 90 days after the end of the U.K. year in which the taxable event occurs, or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, (the  Due Date ) then the amount of income tax that should have been withheld shall constitute a loan owed by you to the Employer, effective or the Due Date.  You agree that the loan will bear interest at Her Majesty s Revenue   Customs  ( HMRC ) official rate and will be immediately due and repayable by you, and the Company and/or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to in Section 4 of the Agreement. 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are a director or executive officer (as within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), the terms of the immediately foregoing provision will not apply.  In the event that you are a director or executive officer and the income tax that is due is not collected from or paid by you by the Due Date, the amount of any uncollected income tax may constitute a benefit to you on which additional income tax and national insurance contributions may be payable.  You may be responsible for reporting and paying any income tax due on this additional benefit directly to the HMRC under the self-assessment regime and for reimbursing the Company or the Employer (as appropriate) for the value of any employee national insurance contributions due on this additional benefit, which the Company or the Employer may recover from you by any means referred to in Section 4 of the Agreement.  
    33 

Venezuela 
  Securities Law Information.    The MSUs granted under the Plan and the shares of Common Stock issued under the Plan are offered as a personal, private, exclusive transaction and are not subject to Venezuelan securities regulations. 
  Exchange Control Information.    Exchange control restrictions may limit the ability to remit funds out of Venezuela in order to receive shares of Common Stock upon vesting of the MSUs, or remit funds into Venezuela following the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired upon vesting of the MSUs. The Company reserves the right to restrict settlement of the MSUs or to amend or cancel the MSUs at any time in order to comply with applicable exchange control laws in Venezuela.  Any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan are intended to be an investment rather than for the resale and conversion of the shares into foreign currency.  You are responsible for complying with exchange control laws in Venezuela and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from your failure to comply with applicable laws.  Because exchange control laws and regulations change frequently and without notice, you should consult with your personal legal advisor before accepting the MSUs and before selling any shares of Common Stock acquired upon vesting of the MSUs to ensure compliance with current regulations. 

34 

</EX-10.BB>

<EX-10.KK>
 6
 exhibit10kkchangeincontrol.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.KK

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 10kk. 

AMENDED AND RESTATED CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT 
    
  December   , 2015 
  PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL 
    
   First_Name   Last_Name  
   Job_Title  
   Company  
   Address  
    
  Dear  First_Name : 
    
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") considers it essential to the best interests of its stockholders to foster the continued employment of key management personnel. Our Board of Directors (the "Board") recognizes that the possibility of a change in ownership or control of the Company may result in the departure or distraction of key personnel to the detriment of the Company and our stockholders. Therefore, the Board has determined to enter into this agreement with you (i) to encourage and reinforce your attention and dedication to your assigned duties without distraction in the face of the disruptive circumstances that can arise from a possible change in control of the Company, (ii) to enhance our ability to retain you in those circumstances, and (iii) to provide you with fair and reasonable protection from the risks of a change in ownership and control so that you will be in a position to help the Company complete a transaction that would be beneficial to stockholders. 
    
  Accordingly, you and the Company have entered into a Change in Control Agreement effective through December 31, 2015 (the  Prior CIC Agreement ).  As provided for in Section 9 of the Prior CIC Agreement and for the purpose of eliminating the provision of any tax gross-ups associated with the cost of excise taxes (as communicated to you in February 2015), you and the Company agree to amend the Prior CIC Agreement as set forth in this Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement as follows: 
    
           1. 
    Term of Agreement and Protected Period  . 
       
           (a) 
    Term of Agreement  . This Amended and Restated Agreement ( Agreement ), which shall replace entirely any prior Change in Control Agreements between you and the Company, shall be effective as of January 1, 2016, and shall continue in effect through December 31, 2016, and commencing on January 1, 2017, and each January  1 thereafter, this Agreement shall be automatically extended for one additional year unless, not later than December 1 of the year preceding the renewal date, either party to this Agreement has given notice to the other that the Agreement shall not be extended under this Section l(a);   provided, however  , that if a Change in Control or Potential Change in Control (as defined below) have occurred during the term of this Agreement, this Agreement shall continue in effect until the later of 36 months beyond the month in which the latest Change in Control occurred or the next December 31 that is at least 18 months after the latest occurrence of a Potential Change in Control.  
       
           (b) 
    Protected Period  . The "Protected Period" is the period from the time of occurrence of a Change in Control until the end of the 36th month after the Change in Control, except that the introductory text to Section 4 provides that certain events occurring before a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred during the Protected Period. 
       
           2. 
    Change in Control and Potential Change in Control  . 
       
           (a) 
    A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if, during the term of this Agreement, on the earliest to occur of the following dates: 
       
           (i) 
    The date any Person (as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities and Exchange Act) shall have become the direct or indirect beneficial owner of thirty percent (30%) or more of the then outstanding common shares of the Company; 

(ii) 
    The date of consummation of a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation other than (i) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent at least fifty one percent (51%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or the surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company in which no Person acquires more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; 
       
           (iii) 
    The date the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all the Company's assets; 
       
           (iv) 
    The date there shall have been a change in the composition of the Board of Directors of the Company within a two (2) year period such that a majority of the Board does not consist of directors who were serving at the beginning of such period together with directors whose initial nomination for election by the Company's stockholders or, if earlier, initial appointment to the Board was approved by the vote of two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were in office at the beginning of the two (2) year period together with the directors who were previously so approved.  
       
  The foregoing notwithstanding, a Change in Control shall not include any event, circumstance or transaction resulting from the actions of any entity or group which is affiliated with you, unless the event, circumstance or transaction is within six months following a Potential Change in Control which resulted from the action of an entity or group not affiliated with you. The term "Person" has the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof; however, a Person shall not include (i) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company. 
    
           (b) 
    A "Potential Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if, during the term of this Agreement: 
       
           (i) 
    The Company enters into a written agreement, the consummation of which would result in a Change in Control; or 
       
           (ii) 
    The Company or any Person publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions which, if consummated, would constitute a Change in Control; or 
       
           (iii) 
    Any Person who is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing  I 0% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities (except, if the Beneficial  Owner is an institutional investor eligible to file a Schedule 13G in respect of the Company under Rule 13d-1(b), this threshold shall be 15%), thereafter increases such Person's beneficial ownership of such securities by 5% or more; or 
       
           (iv) 
    The Board adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control has occurred. 
       
           3. 
    Employee Covenants  . 
       
  You agree that, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, in the event of a Potential Change in Control, you will remain in the employ of the Company or a subsidiary until the date that is six months after the earliest Potential Change in Control, except your commitment will end upon (i) the occurrence of a Change in Control, (ii) your Termination by reason of death, (iii) your Termination by the Company for any reason, or (iv) any other Termination under which you become entitled to severance and benefits under Section 4(c) of this Agreement. A "Termination" means your "separation from service" from the Company and all subsidiaries within the meaning of Treasury Regulation   l.409A-l (h). 

4. 
    Termination and Resulting Compensation and Benefits  .  
       
           (a) 
    In General  . This Agreement provides no compensation or benefits in connection with Terminations which occur at times other than during the Protected Period, except that, if you are Terminated prior to a Change in Control by the Company without Cause at the direction of a Person who has entered into an agreement with the Company the consummation of which will constitute a Change in Control, or if you Terminate with Good Reason prior to a Change in Control (determined by treating a Potential Change in Control as a Change in Control in applying the definition of Good Reason) if the circumstance or event which constitutes Good Reason occurs at the direction of such Person, and if in each case the Change in Control occurs within one year after your Termination, then your Termination shall be deemed to have been during the Protected Period and following a Change in Control and shall qualify for the compensation and benefits specified in Section 4(c). 
       
           (b) 
    Termination by the Company for Cause, by You Without Good Reason. or by Reason of Death. and Failure to Perform Duties Due to Disability  . If during the Protected Period you are Terminated by the Company for Cause, you voluntarily Terminate without Good Reason, Termination occurs due to your death, or you fail to perform your duties with the Company as a result of Disability, the Company will have no obligation to pay any compensation or benefits to you under this Agreement, but the following obligations will apply: 
       
           (i) 
    In the case of failure to perform your duties due to Disability, you will be compensated on terms at least as favorable as those of the Company's short-term and long-term disability plans as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control. 
       
           (ii) 
    For any such Termination, you will be paid your salary through the Date of Termination plus all other compensation and benefits payable through the Date of Termination under the terms of any compensation or benefit plan, program or arrangement maintained by the Company during such period, subject to Section 5.  If any annual incentive compensation was potentially earnable by you by performance in a year that has been completed, and such year was completed at the date of the Termination but the annual incentive compensation was not yet determined or not yet paid, the Company will determine the amount payable in good faith and with no exercise of negative discretion except as is consistent with the exercise of such negative discretion for other executives of the Company who have not Terminated (taking into account practice in prior years in determining such annual incentive awards);   provided, however  , that this sentence will not apply in the case of a Termination by the Company for Cause. 
       
           (iii) 
    You will receive other compensation and benefits accrued and owing but not yet paid at the Date of Termination and any compensation and benefits as may be provided under the Company's retirement, insurance and other compensation or benefit plans, programs and arrangements on terms at least as favorable as those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control. 
       
           (c) 
    Terminations Triggering Severance Compensation and Benefits  . In lieu of any other severance compensation or benefits to which you may otherwise be entitled under any plan, program, policy or arrangement of the Company or any subsidiary, entitlement to which you hereby expressly waive, the Company will pay you the payments described in this Section 4(c) (the "Severance Payments") upon Termination during the Protected Period and during the term of this Agreement, unless such termination is (i) by the Company for Cause, (ii) by reason of death, (iii) due to your failure to perform your duties with the Company as a result of Disability, or (iv) by you without Good Reason. The compensation and benefits provided under this Section 4(c) are as follows: 
       
           (i) 
    The Company will pay you the amounts specified in Section 4(b)(ii). 
       
           (ii) 
    In lieu of any further salary payments to you and in lieu of any severance benefit otherwise payable to you, the Company will pay you, in the form specified in Section 5 (a lump sum to the extent permissible), a severance payment, in cash, equal to 2.99 times the sum of (A) the higher of your annual base salary in effect immediately prior to the occurrence of the event or circumstance upon which the Notice of Termination is based or your annual base salary in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control, and (B) the aggregate amount of your target annual bonus opportunity for the year in which the Notice of Termination was given under the annual incentive plan applicable to you as in effect immediately prior to the occurrence of the  

event or circumstances giving rise to the Notice of Termination or, if greater, your target annual bonus under the applicable plan for the preceding year. 
    
           (iii) 
    The Company will pay to you, in the form specified in Section 5 (a lump sum to the extent permissible), an amount, in cash, equal to the sum of (A) any incentive compensation which has been earned, allocated or awarded by you or to you for a completed calendar year or other measuring period preceding the Date of Termination but has not yet been paid (this shall not result, however, in duplication of payments under Section 4(c)(i) and 4(b)(ii)), with any further service requirement for the vesting of such compensation deemed met as of the Date of Termination, and (B), in the case of any annual incentive award contingent upon performance (i.e., a contingency other than continued service), equal to the pro rata portion of each authorized award or award opportunity for any performance measurement period that was in effect at the Date of Termination, calculated as to each such award assuming that any performance goal or measurement will have been achieved (for the entire performance period) at the level of the actual results achieved, if available, or if not at the target level;   provided, however  , any additional forfeiture conditions in the nature of a  clawback" contained in any plan or award agreement shall continue to apply to any payment under clause (A) or (B), and shall be deemed your covenants to be performed  following termination. For purposes of clause (B), the pro rata portion shall be determined based on the proportion of the performance period elapsed from the beginning of such period until the Date of Termination, and any service, vesting or other non-performance requirement relating to such an award, including a service period that would have extended after the performance period, will be deemed met;   provided, however  , that the payment authorized by Section 4(c)(iii)(B) will be limited if the terms of any award or other agreement specifically limit the payment under this Agreement (referring clearly to this Agreement or a predecessor change in control agreement). 
       
           (iv) 
    In the case of restricted stock, restricted stock units, options, stock appreciation rights ("SARs") and other equity awards, other than performance-based  awards governed by Section 4(c)(iii) above, such awards shall be deemed fully vested and non-forfeitable (to the extent not previously vested and non-forfeitable) and restrictions on such awards shall automatically lapse as of the Date of Termination (subject to Section 5), and options and SARs and other exercisable awards will be immediately exercisable in full at that date;   provided, however  , that (A) the enhanced rights and benefits specified in this Section 4(c)(iv) will be limited if and to the extent that the terms of any award or other agreement specifically limit such enhanced rights and benefits under this Agreement (referring clearly to this Agreement or a predecessor  change in control  agreement); (B) if minimum vesting requirements applicable to any award under the 2007 or 2002 Stock Incentive Plan or other Company plan do not permit such accelerated vesting, the Company will make a cash payment to you equal to the fair market value (net of any exercise price) of such award at the Date of Termination, whereupon such award will be canceled; (C) any additional forfeiture conditions in the nature of a "clawback" contained in any plan or award agreement shall continue to apply, and shall apply to any payment under clause (B), and shall be deemed your covenants to be performed following termination; and (D) the acceleration of options and SARs and other awards provided for hereunder is subject to the limitations specified in Section 4(d). 
       
           (v) 
    In addition to the retirement benefits to which you are entitled under the Bristol  Myers Squibb Company Retirement Income Plan (the "Retirement Plan") and the Bristol  Myers Squibb Company Benefit Equalization Plan relating to the Retirement Plan (the "BEP"), or any successor plans thereto, the Company will pay you an additional amount (the "Additional Amount") equal to the excess of: 
       
           x. 
    the actuarial equivalent present value of the retirement pension (determined as a straight life annuity commencing as of the 1st day of the month coinciding with or next following either (1) your 65th birthday if your Date of Termination is on or before such birthday, or (2) your Date of Termination if such date occurs after your 65th birthday (the  Determination Date )) which you would have accrued under the terms of the Retirement Plan and BEP (without regard to any amendment to the Retirement Plan or BEP made subsequent to a Change in Control which is adverse to you), determined as if you (A) were fully vested thereunder, and (B) had accumulated (as of the Date of Termination) 36 additional months of age and service credit thereunder at your highest annual rate of compensation (as such term is defined under the BEP) during the 12 months immediately preceding the Date of Termination (but in no event will you be deemed to have accumulated additional service credit in excess of the maximums taken into account under the Retirement Plan and BEP) (the "Additional Age/Service Credit") 

over 
    
           y. 
    the actuarial equivalent present value of the vested retirement pension (determined as a straight life annuity commencing at the Determination Date) which you had then accrued pursuant to the respective provisions of the Retirement Plan and BEP (the BEP portion of such retirement pension being the "Base BEP Benefit"). 
       
  The Additional Amount will be paid, in the form specified in Section 5 (a lump sum to the extent permissible), as a cash amount following your Termination in accordance with Section 5 hereof.  If you have not attained age 55 with ten years of service credit as of the Date of Termination (after taking into account the Additional Age/Service Credit), you will receive the payments under this Section 4(c)(v) as though you had attained age 55 with ten years of service credit as of the Date of Termination, and without actuarial reduction to reflect the fact that you have not attained age 55 with ten years of service as of the Date of Termination. For purposes of this Section 4(c)(v), "actuarial equivalent" will be determined using the same methods and assumptions utilized under the Retirement Plan immediately prior to the Date of Termination. 
    
           (vi) 
    For a 36-month period after the Date of Termination (subject to Section 5), the Company will arrange to provide you with life and health (including medical and dental) insurance benefits substantially similar to those which you are receiving immediately prior to the Notice of Termination (without giving effect to any reduction in such benefits subsequent to a Change in Control). Benefits otherwise receivable by you pursuant to this Section 4(c)(vi) will be reduced to the extent comparable benefits are actually received by or made available to you without greater cost to you than as provided by the Company during the 36-month period following your termination of employment (and any such benefits actually received by you will be reported to the Company by you). 
       
           (vii) 
    Following the 36-month period described in Section 4(c)(vi), you will be immediately eligible to participate (although you may elect to defer commencement of such participation to such later date as you will determine) in the Company's retiree medical plans, whether or not you have satisfied any age and service requirements then applicable. For purposes of determining the level of your participation thereunder, you will be deemed to have accumulated 36 months of additional age and service credit; it being understood that if your age and service credit (as augmented hereunder) do not satisfy the minimum requirements for eligibility, you will be eligible to participate at the level requiring the maximum contribution requirement by an eligible retiree.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the foregoing retiree benefits fail to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ( Code ), then in lieu of receiving such benefits, you will be entitled to receive cash payments from the Company that will equal the Company's cost of providing those benefits to you. Your first payment in lieu of those retiree benefits will be made in the first month following cessation of the coverage or payments in lieu of coverage as provided  under Section 4(c)(vi) hereof. 
       
           (viii) 
    In addition to the vested amounts, if any, to which you are entitled under the Company's Savings and Investment Program, including the Company's Benefit Equalization Plan for the Savings and Investment Program, as of the Date of Termination, the Company will pay you a lump sum amount (subject to Section 5) equal to the value of the unvested portion, if any, of the employer matching contributions credited to you under the Company's Savings and Investment Program, including the Company's Benefit Equalization Plan for the Savings and Investment Program (to the extent such unvested portion is forfeited as a result of your Termination).  
       
           (ix) 
    The Company will provide you with (including reimbursements to you for) reasonable outplacement services consistent with past practices of the Company prior to the Change in Control. 

(d) 
    Excise Tax and Reduction in Payments in Certain Cases  . 
       
           (i) 
    If you become entitled to any amounts payable as a result of a Change in Control (whether or not such amounts are payable pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise) (the  Parachute Payments ) and any Parachute Payments are subject to the tax (the  Excise Tax ) imposed by Section 4999 of the Code (or any similar federal, state or local tax that may hereafter be imposed), then, upon reasonable notification to you and, if you so request, discussions with you and your advisors, the Parachute Payments shall be reduced (but not below zero) to the Reduced Amount (as defined below) if and only if reducing the Parachute Payments under this Agreement will provide you with a greater net amount after payment of all applicable federal, state, and local taxes, including the Excise Tax, than you would receive, after payment of all applicable federal, state, and local taxes, including the Excise Tax, if no such reduction were made. For the purposes of this Agreement, the  Reduced Amount  shall be an amount, expressed in present value, which maximizes the aggregate present value of the Parachute Payments without causing any Parachute Payment to be subject to the Excise Tax, determined in accordance with Section 280G(d)(4) of the Code.  Only Parachute Payments payable under this Agreement shall be reduced pursuant to this Section 4(d), but this shall be deemed to include acceleration of vesting of equity awards covered by this Agreement even if such awards separately provide for acceleration of vesting.  No reduction shall be applied to an amount that constitutes a deferral of compensation under Code Section 409A except for amounts that have become payable at the time of the reduction. 
       
           (ii) 
    Determinations under this Section 4(d) shall be made by a nationally-recognized tax counsel or advisors selected by the Company s independent auditors (serving immediately prior to the Change in Control) (the  Tax Advisor ).  No payment or benefit shall be treated as potentially subject to the Excise Tax or as a parachute payment if you have effectively waived in writing, prior to the Date of Termination (or, if earlier, the date of your actual or constructive receipt of the payment or benefit), your right to receive such payment or benefit. 
       
           (iii) 
    For purposes of determinations under this Section 4(d), you shall be deemed to pay federal income taxes at the applicable marginal rate(s) of federal income taxation (taking into account the loss of itemized deductions) in the calendar year in which the Excise Tax would apply and state and local income taxes at the applicable marginal rate(s) of taxation in the state and locality of your residence on the Date of Termination, net of the maximum reduction in federal income taxes which could be obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes (but only to the extent it is practicable for you to itemize deductions).  
       
           (e) 
    Time of Payment  . The payments provided for in Sections 4(c)(ii), (iii), (iv), and (viii) shall be made not later than the fifth day following the Date of Termination, subject to any requirement for delay of payments and subject to all other rules under Section 5.  If the amount of such payments due on a given payment date cannot be finally determined on or before that payment date, the Company shall pay to you on such day an estimate, as determined in good faith by the Company, of the minimum amount of such payments and shall pay the remainder of such payments (together with interest at the rate provided in Section 5(e)(i)) as soon as the amount thereof can be determined but in no event later than the thirtieth day after the due date for such payment.  In the event that the amount of the estimated payments exceeds the amount subsequently determined to have been due, you shall be obligated to repay such excess amount on the fifth business day after demand by the Company, together with interest at the rate provided in Section 5(e)(i). At the time that payments are made under this Section and Section 5, the Company will provide you with a written statement setting forth the manner in which such payments were calculated and the basis for such calculations including a summary of any opinions or other advice the Company received from the Tax Advisor, outside counsel, auditors or consultants. 
       
           (f) 
    Notice  . During the Protected Period, any purported termination of your employment by the Company or by you shall be communicated by written Notice of Termination to the other party hereto. 
       
           (g) 
    Certain Definitions  . Except as otherwise indicated in this Agreement, all definitions in this Section 4(g) shall be applicable during the Protected Period only. 

(i) 
    Cause  . "Cause" for termination by the Company of your employment, during the Protected Period, shall mean (A) the willful and continued failure by you to substantially perform your duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from your incapacity due to physical or mental illness or any such actual or anticipated failure after the issuance of a Notice of Termination for Good Reason by you) for a period of at least 30 consecutive days after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to you by the Board, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Board believes that you have not substantially performed your duties, (B) the willful engaging by you in conduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company or its subsidiaries, monetarily or otherwise, or (C) you are convicted of, or have entered a plea of   nolo contendere   to, a felony.  For purposes of clauses (A) and (B) of this definition, no act, or failure to act, on your part shall be deemed "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by you not in good faith and without reasonable belief that your act, or failure to act, was in the best interest of the Company. The foregoing notwithstanding, you will not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to you a copy of the resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters (3/4) of the entire membership of the Board at a meeting of the Board (after reasonable notice to you and an opportunity for you, together with your counsel, to be heard before the Board) finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board, you were guilty of conduct set forth above in this Section 4(g)(i) and specifying the particulars thereof in detail. 
       
           (ii) 
    Date of Termination  . "Date of Termination" shall mean the date specified in the Notice of Termination which, in the case of a Termination by the Company (other than a Termination for Cause), shall not be less than 30 days from the date such Notice of Termination is given and, in the case of a Termination by you, shall not be less than 15 nor more than 60 days from the date such Notice of Termination is given. 
       
           (iii) 
    Disability  . "Disability" shall have the meaning stated in the Company's short- and long-term disability plans as in effect immediately prior to a Change in Control. 
       
           (iv) 
    Good Reason  . "Good Reason" for Termination of your employment will mean the occurrence, without your express written consent, of any one of the following unless such circumstances are fully corrected prior to the Date of Termination: 
       
           (A) 
    the assignment to you of any duties inconsistent with your status as an officer of the Company or a substantial adverse alteration in the nature or status of your responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; 
       
           (B) 
    a material reduction by the Company in your annual base salary or target annual incentive bonus from the levels in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control or as the same may be increased from time to time; 
       
           (C) 
    the relocation of the principal place of your employment to a location more than 50 miles from the location of such place of employment on the date of this Agreement; except for required travel on the Company's business to an extent substantially consistent with your business travel obligations prior to the Change in Control or, if you have consented to such a relocation, the failure by the Company to provide you with all of the benefits of the Company's relocation policy as in operation immediately prior to a Change in Control; 
       
           (D) 
    the failure by the Company to pay to you any material amount or portion of your compensation or to pay to you any portion of an installment of deferred compensation under any deferred compensation program of the Company within seven days of the date such compensation is due; 
       
           (E) 
    the failure by the Company to continue in effect any compensation or benefit plan which is material to your compensation and in which you participated immediately prior to the Change in Control, unless an equitable arrangement (embodied in an ongoing substitute or alternative plan) has been made with respect to such plan, or the failure by the Company to continue your participation therein (or in such substitute or alternative plan) on a basis not materially less favorable, both in terms of the amounts of benefits provided and the level of your participation relative to other participants, as existed at the time of the Change in Control; 

(F) 
    the failure by the Company to continue to provide you with benefits substantially similar to those enjoyed by you under any of the Company's pension (including, without limitation, the Company's Retirement Plan, BEP and the  Company's Savings and Investment Program, including the Company's Benefit Equalization Plan for the Savings and Investment Program), life insurance, medical, health and accident, or disability plans in which you were participating at the time of the Change in Control, the taking of any action by the Company which would directly or indirectly materially reduce any of such benefits or deprive you of any material fringe benefit enjoyed by you at the time of the Change in Control, or the failure by the Company to provide you with the number of paid vacation days to which you are entitled on the basis of years of service with the Company in accordance with the Company's normal vacation policy in effect at the time of the Change in Control; 
       
           (G) 
    the failure of the Company to obtain a satisfactory agreement from any successor to assume and agree to perform this Agreement, as contemplated in Section 9 hereof; or 
       
           (H) 
    any purported termination of your employment that is not effected pursuant to a Notice of Termination satisfying the requirements of Section 4(g)(iv) hereof (and, if applicable, the requirements of Section 4(g)(ii) hereof), which purported termination shall not be effective for purposes of this Agreement. 
       
  Your continued employment shall not constitute consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any act or failure to act constituting Good Reason hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the occurrence of an event that would otherwise constitute Good Reason hereunder shall not constitute Good Reason (i) if you do not provide notice to the Company of the circumstances constituting Good Reason within 90 days after you first become aware of such event and at least 30 days before your Termination for Good Reason, or (ii) if Notice of Termination is not timely provided to the Company by you within 120 days of the date that you first become aware (or reasonably should have become aware) of the occurrence of such event (any such Notice must specify a Date of Termination not more than 90 days after the Notice is provided to the Company). 
    
           (v) 
    Notice of Termination  . "Notice of Termination" shall mean notice indicating the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon and setting forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of your employment under the provision so indicated. 
       
           (h) 
    Dispute Concerning Termination  . If within 15 days after any Notice of Termination is given, or, if later, prior to the Date of Termination stated in such Notice, the party receiving such Notice notifies the other party that a dispute exists concerning the Termination, the Date of Termination shall be the date on which the dispute is finally resolved, either by mutual written agreement of the parties or by a final judgment,  order or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction (which is no longer appealable);   provided, however  , that the Date of Termination shall be extended by a notice of dispute only if such notice is given in good faith and the party giving such notice pursues the resolution of such dispute with reasonable diligence. In case of such a dispute, the Company shall continue to pay you the full compensation in effect when the Notice giving rise to the dispute was given (including salary) or, if greater, the full compensation in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control, and continue you as a participant, on a basis at least as favorable to you as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control, in all compensation, benefit and insurance plans in which you were participating when such Notice was given, until the dispute is finally resolved. Amounts paid under this Section 4(h) are in addition to all other amounts due under this Agreement but without duplication under Section 4(b) or 4(c)(i) hereof, and shall not be offset against or reduce any other amounts due under this Agreement. 
       
           5. 
    Special Rules for Compliance with Code Section 409A  .  This Section 5 serves to ensure compliance with applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Code. Certain provisions of this Section 5 modify other provisions of this Agreement.   If the terms of this Section 5 conflict with other terms of the Agreement, the terms of this Section 5 control. 
       
           (a) 
    Timing of Certain Payments  .  Payments and benefits specified under this Agreement shall be paid at the times specified as follows: 

(i) 
    Accrued Payments at Termination  .   Sections 4(b)(ii) and 4(c)(i) of this Agreement require payment of amounts accrued at the date of your Termination.  Unless the amount is payable under an applicable plan, program or arrangement on explicit terms providing for a delay in payment after Termination, compliant with Code Section 409A, these amounts shall be payable at the date the amounts otherwise would have been payable under the applicable plans, programs and arrangements but in no event more than 60 days after your Termination of employment. 
       
           (ii) 
    Performance-Based Payments  .   In the case of payments under Sections 4(b)(ii), 4(c)(i) and 4(c)(iii)(A) as incentive compensation for performance in a year completed before the year of your Termination, the payment shall be made at the earliest of the date specified under the applicable Plan or five days after your Date of Termination, subject to any applicable requirement under Section 5(d) or 5(e)(vi); provided that the rule under Section 5(c)(iii) shall apply. 
       
           (iii) 
    Certain Benefits  . With respect to benefits provided under Section 4(c)(vi) (life and health insurance benefits and perquisites), Section 4(c)(vii) (retiree medical benefits), and Section 4(c)(ix) (outplacement services), the provision of each such benefit (whether provided in kind by the Company, provided by third parties but to be paid for by the Company, or reimbursed to you by the Company) in each calendar year shall be deemed a separate payment by the Company, and each component separately covered by clauses (A)-(E) below shall be deemed a separate payment. The following payment rules apply to ensure, to the greatest extent possible, that provision of these benefits does not result in Section 409A penalties to you: 
       
           (A) 
    Payments that are non-taxable to you are intended to be not subject to Section 409A. 
       
           (B) 
    Certain payments, including but not limited to business expense reimbursements and outplacement services, are excluded from being deemed deferrals of compensation under Treasury Regulation   l.409A-l(b)(9)(v)(A), (B) and (C); such payments may be incurred or provided during the period from Termination until the last day of your second taxable year following the taxable year of your Termination, provided that reimbursements must be paid no later than the end of the year following the year the reimbursable expense arose (or any greater or lesser period applicable to medical expenses under Treasury Regulation   l.409A-l(b)(9)(v)(B)). 
       
           (C) 
    Certain payments shall be excluded under other applicable provisions of Treasury Regulation       l .409A-l - A-6 (including Treasury Regulation   l .409A-l (b)(4) and (10)-(12)). 
       
           (D) 
    Any such payments not covered under the foregoing rules shall be payable as a reimbursement to you or as an in-kind benefit to you meeting the requirements of Treasury Regulation   l .409A-3(i)(1)(iv). For this purpose, the amount of any such payment in any one of your taxable years shall not affect the eligible amount of a related payment in any other of your taxable years (excluding medical expenses to the extent provided in Treasury Regulation   l.409A-3(i)(l)((iv)(B)), and any payment in reimbursement of an eligible expense shall be made no later than the last day of your taxable year following the taxable year in which the expense was incurred.  Other provisions of this Agreement and any other company policy notwithstanding, a payment subject to this clause (D) may not be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit. 
       
           (E) 
    Any payment not excluded from being a deferral of compensation and not otherwise covered by clauses (A)-(D) above shall nevertheless be payable as a separate payment under this Agreement. 
       
           (iv) 
    Legal Fees and Related Costs and Expenses  .  Any legal fees and other costs and expenses payable by the Company under Section 8 shall be paid within 30 days of the date the Company receives the bill therefore, and in any event the fees and other costs and expenses must be paid or reimbursed no later than the end of your taxable year next following the taxable year in which you incurred the legal fees or other costs and expenses. 
       
           (v) 
    Other Payments  . Any payment or benefit required under this Agreement to be paid in a lump sum or otherwise to be paid promptly at or following a date or event shall be paid within five days after the due date, subject to Section 5(b), (c) and (d) below. 

(vi) 
    No Influence on Year of Payment  .  In the case of any payment under the Agreement payable during a specified period of time following a Termination or other event, if such permitted payment period begins in one calendar year and ends in a subsequent calendar year, you shall have no right to elect in which year the payment will be made, and the Company's determination of when to make the payment shall not be influenced in any way by you. 
       
           (b) 
    Special Rules for Severance Payments  . In the case of Severance Payments payable under Section 4(c)(ii), the following rules will apply: 
       
           (i) 
    Severance Under Other Plans: Separate Payments  . If you would be entitled to participate in the Company's Senior Executive Severance Plan or any other plan providing for severance payments upon a Termination not for cause and not during the Protected Period (the "Pre-CiC Plan"), the amount of such severance that would have been payable if your Termination were not otherwise subject to this Agreement shall be calculated at the time of your Termination (the " Pre-CiC Plan Severance"). Each installment payment that would have comprised the Pre-CiC Plan Severance shall be deemed a separate payment for all purposes, including for purposes of Section 409A. The portions of the Severance Payment payable under Section 4(c)(ii) that exceeds the Pre-CiC Plan Severance amount (or the present value thereof, if such present valuing is required to comply with Section 409A), including the part attributable to the higher multiple applicable under Section 4(c)(ii) to base salary as compared to the Pre  CiC Plan and the part attributable to including annual bonus in the formula as compared to the Pre-CiC Plan, will each be deemed to be a separate payment for all purposes, including for purposes of Section 409A (the "Separate Lump Sums"). 
       
           (ii) 
    Severance Payment Timing Rules  .  The portion of the Severance Payment that shall be  payable as a lump-sum payment within five days after Termination shall equal (A) the amount of those installments of the Pre-CiC Plan Severance that constituted short-term deferrals under Treasury Regulation   l.409A-l(b)(4), plus (B) the maximum amount of the Pre-CiC Plan Severance payable under the "two-year/two-times" exclusion from being a deferral of compensation under Treasury Regulation    1.409A-l(b)(9)(iii), plus (C) the Separate Lump Sums identified in Section 5(b)(i) above (if and to the extent that each amount qualifies as a short-term deferral under Code Section 409A), plus (D), if the six-month delay rule in Section 5(d) does not apply, all remaining amounts of the Severance Payment (except as otherwise provided in Section 5(b)(iii)).  Any other amounts of such Severance Payment (i.e., amounts subject to the six-month delay rule) shall be paid at the date six months after the date of your Termination, together with applicable interest, except as otherwise provided in Section 5(b)(iii). 
       
           (iii) 
    Payments of 409A Deferrals For a Termination Not Within Two Years After a 409A Change in Control  . If either (A) the Change in Control does not involve a transaction that constitutes a change in the ownership of the Company, a change in effective control of the Company, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company as defined in Treasury Regulation   l.409A-3(i)(5) (a "409A Change in Control"), or (B) your Termination triggering payments hereunder did not occur within the two-year period following a 409A Change in Control (including a termination governed by the general provision in Section 4(a)), payments under Section 5(b)(ii) other than those specified in Section 5(b)(ii)(A), (B) and (C) (i.e., payments that constitute deferrals under Section 409A) must be paid at the times and in the form applicable to the corresponding Pre-CiC Plan Severance.  This provision does not apply if you would not have been entitled to Pre-CiC Plan Severance under any circumstances. 
       
           (c) 
    Special Rules for Other Payments  .  With respect to amounts payable under Sections 4(c)(iii) (incentive and performance awards), 4(c)(iv) (particularly restricted stock units), 4(c)(v) (Additional Amounts under the Retirement Plan and the BEP), and 4(c)(viii) (replacement of forfeited matching contributions under the Savings Plan), the following rules will apply: 
       
           (i) 
    Separate Payments  .  The amounts payable under each such separate provision of Sections 4(c)(iii)-(v) and 4(c)(viii) and replacing each amount or installment under a separately identifiable plan or arrangement shall each be deemed to be a separate payment for all purposes, including for purposes of Section 409A (subject to any further designation of separate payments explicitly made in such separately identifiable plan or arrangement for purposes of Section 409A). 

(ii) 
    Payment Timing Rules  .  A payment referenced  in Section 5(c)(i) shall be payable as a lump  sum payment within five days after Termination (subject to Section 5(e)(vi)) if and to the extent that (A) the separate payment constitutes short-term deferral under Treasury Regulation   l.409A-l (b)(4), (B) the amount of the separate payment can be paid under the "two-year/two times  exclusion from being a deferral of compensation under Treasury Regulation   l.409A-l(b)(9)(iii), after first applying such exclusion under Section 5(b)(ii), (C) the separate payment is covered by any other applicable exclusion or exemption under Treasury Regulation   l.409A-l(b)(9) (provided that the exclusion under subsection (b)(9)(v)(D) shall be used only to the extent not relied upon for other payments or benefits) and (D), the six  month delay rule in Section 5(d) does not apply to the separate payment (except as otherwise provided in Section 5(c)(iii)). Any other such separate payment (i.e., amounts subject to the six-month delay rule) shall be paid at the date six months after the date of your Termination, together with applicable interest, except as otherwise provided in Section 5(c)(iii). Any delay in payment under the six-month delay rule shall not limit your rights under this Agreement to not forfeit a specified item of compensation as a result of your Termination. 
       
           (iii) 
    Payments of 409A Deferrals For a Termination Not Within Two Years After a 409A Change in Control  .  If a payment referenced in Section 5(a)(ii) or 5(c)(ii) is a direct payment or a substitute or replacement for a right to payment (the "Original Payment Right") that constitutes a deferral of compensation under Section 409A, and if either (A) the Change in Control does not involve a 409A Change in Control, or (B) your Termination triggering payments hereunder did not occur within the two-year period following a 409A Change in Control (including a termination governed by the general provision of Section 4(a)), then such payments (including the payments under Section 5(c)(ii) other than those specified in Section 5(c)(ii)(A), (B) and (C)) (i.e., payments that constitute deferrals under Section 409A) must be paid at the times and in the form applicable to a separation from service under the terms of the Original Payment Right, subject to Section 5(d) and Section 5(e)(vi).  If in no circumstances was such payment payable upon a separation from service under the Original Payment Right, then this Section 5(c)(iii) shall not apply. 
       
           (d) 
    Six-Month Delay Rule  . 
       
           (i) 
    General Rule  . The six-month delay rule will apply to certain payments and benefits under this Agreement if all of the following conditions are met: 
       
           (A) 
    You are a "key employee" (as defined in Code Section 416(i) without regard to paragraph (5) thereof) for the year in which the Termination occurs.  The Company will determine status of "key employees" annually, under administrative procedures  applicable to all Section 409A plans and arrangements and applied in accordance with Treasury Regulation  1.409A-l(i). 
       
           (B) 
    The Company's stock is publicly traded on an established securities market or otherwise. 
       
           (C) 
    The payment or benefit in question is a deferral of compensation and not excepted, exempted or excluded from being such by the short-term deferral rule, or the "two  years/two-times" rule in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-l(b)(9)(iii), or any other exception, exemption or exclusion;   provided, however  , that the exclusion under Treasury Regulation  l.409A-l(b)(9)(v)(D)  shall apply only if and to the extent that it is not necessary to apply to any other payment or benefit payable within six months after your Termination. 
       
           (ii) 
    Effect of Rule  . If it applies, the six-month delay rule will delay a payment or benefit which otherwise would be payable under this Agreement within six months after your separation from service. 
       
           (A) 
    Any delayed payment or benefit shall be paid on the date six months after your separation from service. 
       
           (B) 
    During the six-month delay period, accelerated payment will occur in the event of your death but not for any other reason (including no acceleration upon a Change in Control), except for accelerations expressly permitted under Treasury Regulation   l.409A-1-A-6. 
       
           (C) 
    Any payment that is not triggered by a Termination, or is triggered by a Termination but would be made more than six months after the Termination (without applying this six  month delay rule), shall be unaffected by the six-month delay rule. 

(iii) 
    Limit to Application of Six-Month Delay Rule  .   If the terms of this Agreement or other plan or arrangement or document relating to this Agreement or payments hereunder impose this six-month delay rule in circumstances in which it is not required for compliance with Section 409A, those terms shall not be given effect. 
       
           (e) 
    Other Provisions  . 
       
           (i) 
    Interest on Delayed Payments  .   If any payment  is delayed by application of the six-month delay rule under Section 5(d) or a delay resulting from the application of Section 5(b)(iii) or 5(c)(iii), interest will accrue on such unpaid amount at a rate equal to the short-term applicable federal rate (with semiannual compounding) established by the Internal Revenue Service under Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code and in effect at the date the amount would have been paid but for the six-month delay rule hereunder. 
       
           (ii) 
    Good Reason  .  The definition of "Good Reason" in Section 4(g)(iv) of the Agreement has been modified to qualify as an  involuntary separation" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation   l.409A-l (n)(2)(i), and shall be so construed and interpreted. 
       
           (iii) 
    Non-transferability  .   No right to any payment or benefit under this Agreement shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, attachment, or garnishment by your creditors or of any of your beneficiaries. 
       
           (iv) 
    No Acceleration  . The timing of payments and benefits under the Agreement may not be accelerated to occur before the time specified for payment hereunder, except to the extent permitted under Treasury Regulation   l.409A-3(j)(4) or as otherwise permitted under Code Section 409A without you incurring a tax penalty. 
       
           (v) 
    The timing of any payment under Section 4(b)(i) (relating to Disability) will be the same as would have been the case under the relevant short-term or long-term disability plan. 
       
           (vi) 
    If you are obligated hereunder to execute a release, non-competition, or other agreement as a condition to receipt of a payment hereunder, the Company will supply to you a form of such release or other document not later than the date of your Termination, which must be returned within the time period required by law and must not be revoked by you within the applicable time period in order for you to satisfy any such condition.  If any amount payable during a fixed period following your Termination is subject to such a requirement and the fixed period would begin in one year and end in the next, the Company, in determining the time of payment of any such amount, will not be influenced by the timing of any action by you including execution of such a release or other document and expiration of any revocation period.  In particular, the Company will be entitled in its discretion to deposit any payment hereunder in escrow during either year comprising such fixed period, so that such deposited amount is constructively received and taxable income to you upon deposit but with distribution from such escrow remaining subject to your execution and non-revocation of such release or other document. 
       
           6. 
    Mitigation  . Except as provided in Section 4(c)(vi) hereof, you shall not be required to mitigate the amount of payments or benefits provided for under this Agreement by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of payment or benefit provided for under this Agreement be reduced by any compensation earned by you as the result of employment by another employer, by retirement benefits, by offset against any amount claimed to be owed by you to the Company, or otherwise. 
       
           7. 
    Noncompetition and Related Covenants  .  In consideration for the payments and benefits provided by the Company under this Agreement, you shall execute, concurrent with the execution of this Agreement, a noncompetition  agreement with the Company in the form attached to this Agreement as Exhibit A, which agreement provides that, for a one-year period following your termination of employment with the  Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, you will not engage in any competitive activity with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates. In addition, if you receive any payment or benefit pursuant to Section 4(c)(iv), the forfeiture conditions in the nature of a "clawback" applicable to the award or the related payment or benefit shall become covenants to be performed following termination. A portion of the payments and benefits under Section 4(c) shall be deemed compensation for your performance of the covenants referred to in this Section 7. 

8. 
    Costs of Proceedings  . The Company shall pay all costs and expenses, including all reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements, of the Company and, at least monthly, you in connection with any legal proceedings, whether or not instituted by the Company or you, relating to the interpretation or enforcement of any provision of this Agreement;   provided that   if you instituted the proceeding and a finding (no longer subject to appeal) is entered that you instituted the proceeding in bad faith, you shall pay all of your costs and expenses, including attorneys' fees and disbursements and reimburse the Company for any and all attorneys' fees and disbursements the Company had paid on your behalf. The Company shall pay prejudgment interest on any money judgment obtained by you as a result of such proceeding, calculated at the prime rate of The Chase Manhattan Bank as in effect from time to time from the date that payment should have been made to you under this Agreement. 
       
           9. 
    Miscellaneous  .  
       
           (a) 
    Successors  .  The Company shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to expressly assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise. 
       
           (b) 
    Binding Agreement  . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by you and your personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees. In the event of your death, all amounts otherwise payable to you hereunder shall, unless otherwise provided herein, be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement to your devisee, legatee or other designee or, if there is no such designee, to your estate. 
       
           (c) 
    Notice.   Notices and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when (i) personally delivered or (ii) mailed by United States certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the respective addresses set forth on the first page of this Agreement;   provided that   all notice to the Company shall be directed to the attention of the Board with a copy to the General Counsel of the Company, or to such other address as either party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notice of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt. 
       
           (d) 
    Modifications  .  Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, no provision of this Agreement may be modified, waived or discharged unless such waiver, modification or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by you and such officer as may be designated by the Board.  The Company may amend this Agreement without your written consent if such amendment would not materially and adversely affect your rights under this Agreement.  No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by the other party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of this Agreement to be performed by such other party shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the time or at any prior or subsequent time. 
       
           (e) 
    Governing Law  . THE VALIDITY, INTERPRETATION, CONSTRUCTION AND PERFORMANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO ITS CONFLICTS OF LAW PRINCIPLES. 
       
           (f) 
    Tax Withholding  . Any payments provided for hereunder shall be paid net of any applicable withholding required under federal, state or local law. 
       
           (g) 
    Surviving Obligations  . The obligations of the Company and your obligations under this Agreement shall survive the expiration of this Agreement to the extent necessary to give effect to this Agreement. 
       
           (h) 
    Validity  . The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect. 
       
           (i) 
    Counterparts  . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument. 

(j) 
    Entire Agreement  . This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein and during the term of this Agreement supersedes the provisions of all prior agreements (including any prior Change in Control Agreement between the parties), promises, covenants, arrangements, communications, representations or warranties, whether oral or written, by any officer, employee or representative of any party hereof with respect to the subject matter contained herein. No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, expressed or implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either party which are not expressly set forth in this Agreement (together with other written plans and agreements to which you and the Company are parties and remain bound). 

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY 

By 

[Name] 
        
    [Title] 

</EX-10.KK>

<EX-12>
 7
 exhibit12fixedcharges20151.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 12. 
    
  Computation of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

(1) 
    Rents included in the computation consist of one-third of rental expense which the Company believes to be a reasonable estimate of an interest factor in its leases. 
       
    E-12-1 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 8
 exhibit21subsidiaries2015.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 21. 
    
  Subsidiaries of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 
    
                345 Park LLC 
      A.G. Medical Services, P.A. 
      Adnexus, a Bristol-Myers Squibb R D Company 
      Allard Labs Acquisition G.P. 
      Amira Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
      Apothecon LLC 
      Blisa Acquisition G.P. 
      BMS Benelux Holdings B.V. 
      BMS Bermuda Nominees L.L.C. 
      BMS Data Acquisition Company LLC 
      BMS Forex Company 
      B-MS GeneRx 
      BMS Holdings 
      BMS Holdings Spain, S.L. 
      BMS International Insurance Company Limited 
      BMS Investco SAS 
      BMS Korea Holdings L.L.C. 
      BMS Latin American Nominees L.L.C. 
      BMS Luxembourg Partners L.L.C. 
      BMS Omega Bermuda Holdings Finance Ltd. 
      BMS Pharmaceutical Korea Limited 
      BMS Pharmaceuticals Germany Holdings B.V. 
      BMS Pharmaceuticals International Holdings Netherlands B.V. 
      BMS Pharmaceuticals Korea Holdings B.V. 
      BMS Pharmaceuticals Mexico Holdings B.V. 
      BMS Pharmaceuticals Netherlands Holdings B.V. 
      BMS Real Estate LLC 
      BMS Spain Investments LLC 
      Bristol (Iran) S.A. 
      Bristol Iran Private Company Limited 
      Bristol Laboratories Inc. 
      Bristol Laboratories International, S.A. 
      Bristol Laboratories Medical Information Systems Inc. 
      Bristol-Myers (Andes) L.L.C. 
      Bristol-Myers (Private) Limited 
      Bristol-Myers de Venezuela S.C.A. 
      Bristol-Myers K.K. 
      Bristol-Myers Middle East S.A.L. 
      Bristol-Myers Overseas Corporation 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb (China) Investment Co., Ltd. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb (China) Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb (Israel) Ltd. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb (NZ) Limited 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb (Proprietary) Limited 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb (Singapore) Pte. Limited 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb (Taiwan) Ltd. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb (West Indies) Ltd. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb A.E. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Aktiebolag 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Argentina S. R. L. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Australia Pty. Ltd. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Axia Limited 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb B.V. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Belgium S.A. 

E-21-  1 

Bristol-Myers Squibb Business Services Limited 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Canada Co. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Canada International Limited 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb de Colombia S.A. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb de Costa Rica Sociedad Anonima 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb de Guatemala, S.A. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Delta Company Limited 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Denmark Filial of Bristol-Myers Squibb AB 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Egypt, LLC 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb EMEA Sarl 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Epsilon Holdings 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Farmaceutica Ltda 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Farmaceutica Portuguesa S.A. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb GesmbH 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb GmbH   Co. KGaA 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Holding Germany GmbH   Co. KG 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Holdings 2002 Limited 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Holdings Germany Verwaltungs Gmbh 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Holdings Ireland 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Holdings Limited 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Holdings Pharma Ltd. Liability Company 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Ilaclari, Inc. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb India Pvt. Limited 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb International Company 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb International Corporation 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Investco, L.L.C. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Luxembourg International S.C.A. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Luxembourg S.a.r.l. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Manufacturing Company 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Marketing Services S.R.L. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb MEA GmbH 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Middle East   Africa FZ-LLC 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Norway Ltd. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Nutricionales de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Peru S.A. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma (HK) Ltd 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma (Thailand) Limited 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Company 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Holding Company, LLC 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Ventures Corporation 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Trading Ltd. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceuticals 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceuticals Limited 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Polska Sp. z o.o. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Products S.A. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Puerto Rico, Inc. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Puerto Rico/Sanofi Pharmaceutical Partnership Puerto Rico 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb S.r.l. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb SA 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Sarl 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Service Ltd. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Services Sp. z o.o. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb spol. s r.o. 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Trustees Limited 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Verwaltungs GmbH 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb, S.A.U. 

E-21-  2 

Bristol-Myers Squibb/Astrazeneca EEIG 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb/Pfizer EEIG 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb/Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Partnership 
      Cardioxyl Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
      Compania Bristol-Myers Squibb de Centro America 
      E. R. Squibb   Sons Inter-American Corporation 
      E. R. Squibb   Sons Limited 
      EWI Corporation 
      FermaVir Pharmaceuticals, L.L.C. 
      FermaVir Research, L.L.C. 
      Flexus Biosciences, Inc. 
      GenPharm International, L.L.C. 
      Grove Insurance Company Ltd. 
      Heyden Farmaceutica Portugesa Limitada 
      Inhibitex, L.L.C. 
      iPierian, Inc. 
      Kosan Biosciences Incorporated 
      Linson Investments Limited 
      Mead Johnson (Manufacturing) Jamaica Limited 
      Mead Johnson Jamaica Ltd. 
      O.o.o. Bristol-Myers Squibb 
      O.o.o. Bristol-Myers Squibb Manufacturing 
      Oy Bristol-Myers Squibb (Finland) AB 
      Princeton Pharmaceutical Products, Inc. 
      Route 22 Real Estate Holding Corporation 
      Sino-American Shanghai Squibb Pharmaceuticals Limited 
      Societe Francaise de Complements Alimentaires(S.O.F.C.A.) 
      Squibb Middle East S.A. 
      Swords Laboratories 
      Unterstutzungskasse Bristol-Myers Squibb GmbH 
      UPSA SAS 
      Westwood-Intrafin SA 
      Westwood-Squibb Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
      ZymoGenetics Paymaster, LLC 
      ZymoGenetics, Inc. 
      ZymoGenetics, LLC 

E-21-  3 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 9
 exhibit23consentofindepend.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 33-33682, 33-62496, 333-114107, 333-117818, 333-150471, 333-182852, and 333-206991 on Form S-3, and Nos. 33-30856, 33-38411, 33-38587, 33-44788, 333-47403, 33-52691, 33-30756-02, 33-58187, 333-02873, 333-65424, 333-107414 and 333-182405 on Form S-8 of our reports dated   February 12, 2016  , relating to the consolidated financial statements of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries (the  Company ) and the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended   December 31, 2015  . 
    
  /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
    
  Parsippany, New Jersey 
  February 12, 2016    
    
    E-23-1 

</EX-23>

<EX-31.A>
 10
 bmy-20151231exhibit31a.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.A

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 31a. 
  CERTIFICATION BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
  PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Giovanni Caforio, certify that: 
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company; 
  2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report; 
  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report; 
  4. The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
                 a. 
    designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared; 

b. 
    designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

c. 
    evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d. 
    disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; 

5. The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function): 
                 a. 
    all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting that are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b. 
    any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:   February 12, 2016    

/s/ GIOVANNI CAFORIO 
      Giovanni Caforio 
      Chief Executive Officer 

E-31-1 

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 11
 bmy-20151231exhibit31b.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.B

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 31b. 
  CERTIFICATION BY THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
  PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Charles Bancroft, certify that: 
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company; 
  2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report; 
  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report; 
  4. The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
                 a. 
    designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared; 

b. 
    designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

c. 
    evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d. 
    disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; 

5. The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function): 
                 a. 
    all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting that are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b. 
    any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:   February 12, 2016 

/s/ CHARLES BANCROFT 
      Charles Bancroft 
      Chief Financial Officer 

E-31-2 

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32.A>
 12
 bmy-20151231exhibit32a.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.A

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 32a. 
  Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, as 
  Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
  Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, I, Giovanni Caforio, hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,   2015   (the Report), as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on   February 12, 2016  , fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. 

/s/ GIOVANNI CAFORIO 
      Giovanni Caforio 
      Chief Executive Officer 
      February 12, 2016 

E-32-1 

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 13
 bmy-20151231exhibit32b.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.B

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 32b. 
  Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, as 
  Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
  Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, I, Charles Bancroft, hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,   2015   (the Report), as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on   February 12, 2016  , fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. 
    
               /s/ CHARLES BANCROFT 
      Charles Bancroft 
      Chief Financial Officer 
      February 12, 2016 

E-32-2 

</EX-32.B>

<EX-101.INS>
 14
 bmy-20151231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 15
 bmy-20151231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 16
 bmy-20151231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 17
 bmy-20151231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 18
 bmy-20151231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 19
 bmy-20151231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

