<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20140220_10-K_edgar_data_899051_0001047469-14-001083_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>49831272</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>781914</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>13325321</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>11332454</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>16782720</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>6122518</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>196</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-14-001083.hdr.sgml : 20140220
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20140220125944
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-14-001083
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20131231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20140220
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20140220

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ALLSTATE CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000899051
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FIRE, MARINE & CASUALTY INSURANCE [6331]
		IRS NUMBER:				363871531
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11840
		FILM NUMBER:		14628589

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2775 SANDERS ROAD
		CITY:			NORTHBROOK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60062
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8474025000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2775 SANDERS ROAD
		CITY:			NORTHBROOK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60062-7127

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001047469-14-001083.txt : 20140220

10-K
 1
 a2218256z10-k.htm
 10-K

Use these links to rapidly review the document 
   TABLE OF CONTENTS   
   Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
   Part IV   

Table of Contents    

   UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
Washington, D.C. 20549     

    FORM 10-K     

For the transition period from                              to

Commission file number 1-11840     

   THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

Registrant's
telephone number, including area code: (847) 402-5000   

  Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of each class     
     
    Name of each exchange 
on which registered

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share  
     
  New York Stock Exchange 
Chicago Stock Exchange  

5.10% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Subordinated Debentures due 2053  
     
      New York Stock Exchange  

Depositary Shares each representing a 1/1,000 th  interest in a share of Fixed Rate Noncumulative Perpetual
Preferred Stock, Series A  
     
      New York Stock Exchange  

Depositary Shares each representing a 1/1,000 th  interest in a share of Fixed Rate Noncumulative Perpetual
Preferred Stock, Series C  
     
      New York Stock Exchange  

Depositary Shares each representing a 1/1,000 th  interest in a share of Fixed Rate Noncumulative Perpetual
Preferred Stock, Series D  
     
      New York Stock Exchange  

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None   

            Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   

  Yes     X                                   
 No           

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.   

  Yes                                         
   No    X    

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.   

  Yes     X                                   
 No           

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to submit and post such files).   

  Yes     X                                   
 No           

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.                  

            Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of "large
accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer     X      
     
  Accelerated filer              

Non-accelerated filer             (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
      
   Smaller reporting company              

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).   

  Yes                                         
   No    X    

The
aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as of the last business day of the registrant's most
recently completed second fiscal quarter, June 30, 2013, was approximately $22.11 billion.   

            As
of January 31, 2014, the registrant had 447,099,450 shares of common stock outstanding.   

   Documents Incorporated By Reference     

            Portions of the following documents are incorporated herein by reference as follows:   

Part III
of this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain information from the registrant's definitive proxy statement for its annual stockholders meeting to be held on
May 20, 2014 (the "Proxy Statement") to be filed not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K.   

Table of Contents    

TABLE OF CONTENTS            

Page    

PART I    

Item 1.   
     
       Business   
     
   1   

Priorities   
     
   1   

Allstate Protection Segment   
     
   1   

Allstate Financial Segment   
     
   4   

Allstate Exclusive Agencies   
     
   5   

Other Business Segments   
     
   6   

Reserve for Property-Liability Claims and
Claims Expense   
     
   6   

Regulation   
     
   10   

Internet Website   
     
   13   

Other Information about
Allstate   
     
   13   

Executive Officers of the Registrant   
     
   14   

Item 1A.   
     
       Risk Factors   
     
   14   

Item 1B.   
     
       Unresolved Staff Comments   
     
   25   

Item 2.   
     
       Properties   
     
   25   

Item 3.   
     
       Legal Proceedings   
     
   25   

Item 4.   
     
       Mine Safety Disclosures   
     
   25   

PART II    

Item 5.   
     
       Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholders Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities   
     
   26   

Item 6.   
     
       Selected Financial Data   
     
   27   

Item 7.   
     
       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   
     
   28   

Item 7A.   
     
       Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
     
   108   

Item 8.   
     
       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
     
   108   

Item 9.   
     
       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure   
     
   199   

Item 9A.   
     
       Controls and Procedures   
     
   199   

Item 9B.   
     
       Other Information   
     
   199   

PART III    

Item 10.   
     
       Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
     
   200   

Item 11.   
     
       Executive Compensation   
     
   200   

Item 12.   
     
       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters   
     
   200   

Item 13.   
     
       Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence   
     
   200   

Item 14.   
     
       Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
     
   200   

PART IV    

Item 15.   
     
       Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   
     
   201   

Signatures   
     
   207   

Financial Statement Schedules   
     
   S-1   

Table of Contents    

Part I            

Item 1.  Business            

         The Allstate Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on November 5, 1992 to serve as the holding
company for Allstate Insurance Company. Its business is conducted principally through Allstate Insurance Company, Allstate Life Insurance Company and other subsidiaries
(collectively, including The Allstate Corporation, "Allstate"). Allstate is primarily engaged in the property-liability insurance and life insurance business. It conducts its business primarily in the
United States.   

         The
Allstate Corporation is the largest publicly held personal lines insurer in the United States. Widely known through the "You're In Good Hands With Allstate " slogan,
Allstate's strategy is to reinvent protection and retirement to help individuals in approximately 16 million households protect what they have today and better prepare for tomorrow. Customers
can access Allstate products and services such as auto and homeowners insurance through approximately 11,600 exclusive Allstate agencies and financial representatives in the United States and Canada,
as well as through independent agencies, contact centers and the internet. Allstate is the 2 nd  largest personal property and casualty insurer in the United States on the basis of 2012
statutory direct premiums earned according to A.M. Best. In addition, according to A.M. Best, it is the nation's 17 th  largest issuer of life insurance business on the basis
of 2012 ordinary life insurance in force and 24 th  largest on the basis of 2012 statutory admitted assets.   

Allstate
has four business segments:   

Allstate
Protection  
     
                 Discontinued Lines and
Coverages  

Allstate
Financial  
     
                 Corporate and
Other  

To
achieve its goals in 2014, Allstate is focused on the following priorities:  

grow insurance policies in force;          maintain the underlying combined ratio;          proactively manage investments to generate attractive risk adjusted returns;        
  modernize the operating model; and          build long-term growth platforms.    

         In
this annual report on Form 10-K, we occasionally refer to statutory financial information. All domestic United States insurance companies are required to prepare
statutory-basis financial statements. As a result, industry data is available that enables comparisons between insurance companies, including competitors that are not subject to the requirement to
prepare financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America ("GAAP"). We frequently use industry publications containing statutory financial information to assess our competitive position.   

ALLSTATE PROTECTION SEGMENT            

    Products and Distribution     

         Total Allstate Protection premiums written were $28.16 billion in 2013. Our Allstate Protection segment accounted for 92% of
Allstate's 2013 consolidated insurance premiums and contract charges. In this segment, we principally sell private passenger auto and homeowners insurance through agencies and directly through contact
centers and the internet. These products are marketed under the Allstate , Encompass , and Esurance  brand names.   

            Our Unique Strategy      Consumer Segments                                         

1  

Table of Contents   

         Allstate
serves four different consumer segments with distinct interaction preferences (local advice and assistance versus self-directed) and brand preferences (brand-neutral versus
brand-sensitive).   

Allstate brand auto and homeowners insurance products are sold primarily through Allstate exclusive agencies and serve
customers who prefer local personal advice and service and are brand-sensitive. Allstate brand sales and service are supported through contact centers and the internet. In 2013, the Allstate brand
represented 91% of the Allstate Protection segment's written premium. In the U.S., we offer these Allstate brand products through approximately 9,600 Allstate exclusive agencies in approximately 9,300
locations. We also offer these products through approximately 1,800 independent agencies that are primarily in rural areas in the U.S. In Canada we offer Allstate brand products through approximately
710 employee producers working in five provinces across the country (Ontario, Quebec, Alberta, New Brunswick and Nova Scotia).          Encompass brand auto, homeowners, and umbrella insurance
products, sold predominantly in the form of a single annual
household ("Package") policy are distributed through independent agencies which serve consumers who prefer personal advice and assistance from an independent adviser and are brand neutral. In 2013,
the Encompass brand represented 4% of the Allstate Protection segment's written premium. Encompass brand products are distributed through approximately 2,500 independent agencies. Encompass is among
the top 15 largest providers of personal property and casualty insurance products through independent agencies in the United States, based on statutory written premium information provided by
A.M. Best for 2012.          Esurance brand auto and homeowners insurance products are sold directly to consumers online, through contact centers and
through select agents, including Answer Financial. Esurance serves self-directed, brand-sensitive customers. In 2013, the Esurance brand represented 5% of the Allstate Protection segment's written
premium.          Answer Financial, an independent personal lines insurance agency, serves self-directed, brand-neutral consumers who want a
choice between insurance carriers. It offers comparison quotes for auto and homeowners insurance from approximately 25 insurance companies through its website and over the phone and receives fee
income for this service.    

         The
Allstate Protection segment also produces and sells specialty auto products including motorcycle, trailer, motor home and off-road vehicle insurance policies; other personal lines
products including renter, condominium, landlord, boat, umbrella and manufactured home insurance policies; commercial lines products for small business owners; roadside assistance products; and
service contracts and other products sold in conjunction with auto lending and vehicle sales transactions. We also participate in the involuntary or shared private passenger auto insurance business in
order to maintain our licenses to do business in many states.   

         Through
arrangements made with other companies, agencies, and brokers, the Allstate Protection segment may offer non-proprietary products to consumers when an Allstate product is not
available. As of December 31, 2013, Allstate agencies had approximately $1.2 billion of non-proprietary personal insurance premiums under management, primarily related to property
business in hurricane exposed areas, and approximately $160 million of non-proprietary commercial insurance premiums under management. In addition, Esurance had $44 million of
non-proprietary premiums written in 2013, primarily related to homeowners, renters and motorcycle insurance that Esurance does not offer in all states. Answer Financial had $477 million of
non-proprietary premiums written in 2013.   

    Competition     

         The markets for personal private passenger auto and homeowners insurance are highly competitive. The following charts provide the
market shares of our principal competitors in the U.S. by direct written premium for the year ended December 31, 2012 according to A.M. Best.   

2  

Table of Contents   

         We
monitor our market share compared to our competitors and expect our market share of private passenger auto insurance to increase for the year ended December 31, 2013, but drop
to the third position in the table above.   

         In
the personal property and casualty insurance market, we compete principally on the basis of the recognition of our brands, the scope of our distribution system, price, the breadth of
our product offerings, product features, customer service, claim handling, and use of technology. In addition, our proprietary database of underwriting and pricing experience enables Allstate to use
sophisticated pricing to more accurately price risks and to cross sell products within our customer base.   

         Our
primary focus in using sophisticated pricing methods has been on acquiring and retaining profitable business. Our sophisticated pricing and underwriting methods use a number of risk
evaluation factors. For auto insurance, these factors can include but are not limited to vehicle make, model and year; driver age and marital status; territory; years licensed; loss history; years
insured with prior carrier; prior liability limits; prior lapse in coverage; and insurance scoring based on credit report information. For property insurance, these factors can include but are not
limited to amount of insurance purchased; geographic location of the property; loss history; age, condition and construction characteristics of the property; and insurance scoring based on credit
report information.   

         Allstate
differentiates itself from competitors by focusing on the entire household and offering a comprehensive range of innovative product options and features through distribution
channels that best suit each market segment. Allstate's Your Choice Auto  insurance allows qualified customers to choose from a variety of options, such as accident forgiveness, safe
driving deductible rewards and a safe driving bonus. We believe that Your Choice Auto insurance promotes increased growth and increased retention. We also offer a Claim Satisfaction
Guarantee sm  that promises a return of premium to Allstate brand standard auto insurance customers dissatisfied with their claims experience. In addition, our Drivewise 
program enables participating customers to be eligible for discounts and bonuses based on driving performance. We continue to enhance the program to improve the customer experience and value
proposition. Allstate House and Home  insurance is our homeowners product that provides options of coverage for roof damage including graduated coverage and pricing based on roof type and
age. Good Hands  Roadside Assistance is a service that provides pay on demand access to roadside services. Encompass's package policy simplifies the insurance experience by packaging a
product with broader coverage and higher limits into a single annual household policy with one premium, one bill, one policy deductible and one renewal date. Esurance's DriveSense TM 
program enables participating customers to be eligible for discounts based on driving performance as measured by a device installed temporarily in the vehicle. Esurance's DriveSafe TM 
program is designed to help parents coach teens on safe driving by providing customizable driving statistics and the ability to limit cell phone use while the car is in motion, all controlled by a
device installed in the vehicle.   

    Geographic Markets     

         The principal geographic markets for our auto, homeowners, and other personal property and casualty products are in the United States.
Through various subsidiaries, we are authorized to sell various types of personal property and casualty insurance products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. We also sell
personal property and casualty insurance products in Canada.   

         The
following table reflects, in percentages, the principal geographic distribution of premiums earned for the Allstate Protection segment for 2013, based on information contained in
statements filed with state insurance departments. No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5 percent of the premiums earned for the segment.   

We
continue to take actions to support earning an acceptable return on the risks assumed in our property business and to reduce variability in our earnings. Accordingly, we expect to
continue to adjust underwriting practices with respect to our property business in markets with significant catastrophe risk exposure.   

    Additional Information     

         Information regarding the last three years' revenues and income from operations attributable to the Allstate Protection segment is
contained in Note 20 of the consolidated financial statements. Note 20 also includes information regarding the last three years' identifiable assets attributable to our
property-liability operations, which includes our   

  3  

Table of Contents   

  Allstate
Protection segment and our Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment. Note 20 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

Information
regarding the amount of premium earned for Allstate Protection segment products for the last three years is set forth in Part II, Item 7  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in the table regarding premiums earned by brand. That table is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1
by reference.   

ALLSTATE FINANCIAL SEGMENT            

Products and Distribution     

         Our Allstate Financial segment provides life insurance and voluntary accident and health insurance. Our principal products are
interest-sensitive, traditional and variable life insurance; and voluntary accident and health insurance. We sell Allstate Financial products through Allstate exclusive agencies and approximately
1,280 exclusive financial specialists, and workplace enrolling independent agents. The table below lists our current distribution channels with the associated products and target customers.   

Distribution Channels   
     
  Proprietary Products   
     
  Target Customers   

Allstate 
Life and 
Retirement   
     
   Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists  
     
   Term life insurance 
Whole life insurance 
Interest-sensitive life insurance 
Variable life insurance  
     
   Middle market  (1)  and mass affluent consumers  (2)  with retirement and family financial protection needs  

Allstate Benefits   
     
   Workplace enrolling independent agents  
 
 Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists  
     
       Workplace life and voluntary accident and health insurance: 
Interest-sensitive and term life insurance 
Disability income insurance 
Cancer, accident, critical illness and heart/stroke insurance 
Hospital indemnity 
Limited benefit medical insurance 
Dental insurance  
     
   Middle market consumers with family financial protection needs employed by small, medium, and large size firms  

(1)     Consumers
with $35,000-$75,000 in household income.
       (2)     Consumers
with greater than $75,000 in household income.    

Allstate
exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists also sell the following non-proprietary products in addition to Allstate Financial products: mutual funds, fixed and
variable annuities, disability insurance, and long-term care insurance. As of December 31, 2013, Allstate agencies have approximately $9.9 billion of non-proprietary mutual funds and
fixed and variable annuity account balances under management. New and additional deposits into these non-proprietary products were $1.3 billion in 2013.   

    Competition     

         We compete on a wide variety of factors, including product offerings, brand recognition, financial strength and ratings, prices,
distribution and the level of customer service. The market for life insurance continues to be highly fragmented and competitive. As of December 31, 2012, there were approximately 420 groups of
life insurance companies in the United States, most of which offered one or more similar products. According to A.M. Best, as of December 31, 2012, the Allstate Financial segment is the
nation's 17 th  largest issuer of life insurance and related business on the basis of 2012 ordinary life insurance in force and 24 th  largest on the basis of 2012 statutory
admitted assets.   

    Geographic Markets     

         We sell life insurance and voluntary accident and health insurance throughout the United States. Through subsidiaries, we are
authorized to sell various types of these products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam.   

The
following table reflects, in percentages, the principal geographic distribution of statutory premiums and annuity considerations for the Allstate Financial segment for 2013, based on
information contained in statements filed with   

  4  

Table of Contents   

  state
insurance departments. No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5 percent of the statutory premiums and annuity considerations.   

Additional Information     

         Information regarding the last three years' revenues and income from operations attributable to the Allstate Financial segment is
contained in Note 20 of the consolidated financial statements. Note 20 also includes information regarding the last three years' identifiable assets attributable to the Allstate
Financial segment. Note 20 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

         Information
regarding premiums and contract charges for Allstate Financial segment products for the last three years is set forth in Part II, Item 7  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in the table that summarizes premiums and contract charges by product. That table is incorporated in this
Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

ALLSTATE EXCLUSIVE AGENCIES            

         Allstate exclusive agencies offer for sale products targeted to consumers that prefer local advice and branded products from both the
Allstate Protection and Allstate Financial segments. They offer Allstate brand auto and homeowners insurance policies; specialty auto products including motorcycle, trailer, motor home and off-road
vehicle insurance policies; other personal lines products including renter, condominium, landlord, boat, umbrella and manufactured home insurance policies; commercial products for small business
owners; and roadside assistance products. Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists offer various life insurance products, as well as voluntary accident and health insurance
products. In addition, arrangements made with other companies, agencies, and brokers allow Allstate exclusive agencies the ability to make available non-proprietary products to consumers when an
Allstate product is not available.   

         In
the U.S., Allstate brand products are sold through approximately 9,600 Allstate exclusive agencies in approximately 9,300 locations. In addition, these agencies employ approximately
20,800 licensed sales professionals who are licensed to sell our products. We also offer these products through approximately 1,800 independent agencies in primarily rural areas in the U.S. In Canada
we offer Allstate brand products through approximately 710 producers working in five provinces across the country (Ontario, Quebec, Alberta, New Brunswick and Nova Scotia). We grew the number of
exclusive agencies in 2013 following several years of decline primarily resulting from agency consolidations and mergers, consistent with our prior plans. We pursue opportunities for growing Allstate
brand exclusive agency distribution based on market opportunities.   

         We
support exclusive agencies in a variety of ways to facilitate customer service and Allstate's overall growth strategy. For example, we offer assistance to Allstate exclusive agencies
with sales and business processes and provide education and other resources to help them acquire more business and retain more customers. Our programs to support our exclusive agencies and help them
grow larger include offering financing to agents to acquire other agencies and awarding additional resources to better performing agencies. We support our relationship with Allstate exclusive agencies
through several national and regional working groups:  

The Agency Executive Council, led by Allstate's senior leadership, engages exclusive agencies on our customer service and
growth strategy. Membership includes approximately 20 Allstate exclusive agency owners selected on the basis of performance, thought leadership and credibility among their peer group.          The National Advisory Board brings together Allstate's senior leadership and a cross section of Allstate exclusive agents
and exclusive financial specialists from around the country to address national business issues and develop solutions.          Regional Advisory Boards support Allstate exclusive agency owner
engagement within each of Allstate's 15 regional offices
in the U.S. and within Canada.    

         Allstate's
strategy is to help improve individual agency success, new business sales, customer satisfaction, retention and productivity. Allstate is striving to help develop stronger,
more valuable exclusive agencies with resources to build stronger customer relationships, provide differentiating levels of service by focusing on more complex customer needs, and support technology
that enables customer self-service for simpler needs.   

  5  

Table of Contents   

         The
compensation structure for Allstate exclusive agencies rewards agencies for delivering high value to our customers and achieving certain business outcomes such as product
profitability, net growth and a diverse product mix. The Allstate exclusive agent remuneration comprises a base commission, variable compensation and a bonus. Variable compensation has two components:
agency success factors (local presence, Allstate Financial product sales and licensed staff), which must be achieved in order to qualify for the second component, customer experience (customer
satisfaction survey). In addition, a bonus that is a percentage of premiums can be earned by agents. To qualify for the bonus, agents must achieve a loss ratio and an amount of sales of Allstate
Financial products. The bonus is earned by increases in multi-line households and increases in Property-Liability policies in force and Allstate Financial policies in force. Other elements of
exclusive agency compensation and support include start-up agency bonuses, marketing support payments, technology and data allowances, regional promotions and recognition trips based on achievement.
There are no significant changes to the compensation framework planned for 2014.   

         Since
Allstate brand customers prefer personal advice and assistance, beginning in 2013 all Allstate brand customers who purchase their policies directly through contact centers and the
internet are immediately assigned an Allstate agency relationship at the time of purchase.   

OTHER BUSINESS SEGMENTS            

         Our Corporate and Other segment is comprised of holding company activities and certain non-insurance operations. Note 20 of the
consolidated financial statements contains information regarding the revenues, income from operations, and identifiable assets attributable to our Corporate and Other segment over the last three
years.   

         Our
Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment includes results from insurance coverage that we no longer write and results for certain commercial and other businesses in run-off. Our
exposure to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims is presented in this segment. Note 20 of the consolidated financial statements contains information for the last three
years regarding revenues, income from operations, and identifiable assets attributable to our property-liability operations, which includes both our Allstate Protection segment and our Discontinued
Lines and Coverages segment. Note 20 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

RESERVE FOR PROPERTY-LIABILITY CLAIMS AND CLAIMS EXPENSE            

         The following information regarding reserves applies to all of our property-liability operations, encompassing both the Allstate
Protection segment and the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment.   

Reconciliation of Claims Reserves     

         The following tables are summary reconciliations of the beginning and ending property-liability insurance claims and claims expense
reserves, displayed individually for each of the last three years. The first table presents reserves on a gross (before reinsurance) basis. The end of year gross reserve balances are reflected in the
Consolidated Statements of   

  6  

Table of Contents   

  Financial
Position. The second table presents reserves on a net (after reinsurance) basis. The total net property-liability insurance claims and claims expense amounts are reflected in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations.   

(1)     In
2013, the gross change in provision attributable to prior years increased $1.07 billion compared to 2012, primarily due to increases
for Michigan and New Jersey unlimited personal injury protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages reserves. In 2012 and 2011, the Company also increased Michigan unlimited personal injury
protection reserves by $832 million and $394 million, respectively, and Discontinued Lines and coverages reserves (see the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section
for additional discussion).
       (2)     In
2013, the net change in provision attributable to prior years decreased $544 million compared to 2012, primarily due to lower
catastrophe reserve reestimates.
       (3)     Reserves
for claims and claims expense are net of reinsurance of $4.66 billion, $4.01 billion and $2.59 billion as of
December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
       (4)     The
Esurance opening balance sheet reserves were reestimated in 2012 resulting in a reduction in reserves due to lower severity. The
adjustment was recorded as a reduction in goodwill and an increase in payables to the seller under the terms of the purchase agreement and therefore had no impact on claims expense or the loss ratio.    

7  

Table of Contents    

         The year-end 2013 gross reserves of $21.86 billion for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense, as determined under GAAP, were
$5.97 billion more than the net reserve balance of $15.89 billion recorded on the basis of statutory accounting practices for reports provided to state regulatory authorities. The
principal differences are reinsurance recoverables from third parties totaling $4.66 billion that reduce reserves for statutory reporting but are recorded as assets for GAAP reporting, and a
liability for the reserves of the Canadian subsidiaries for $1.12 billion. Remaining differences are due to variations in requirements between GAAP and statutory reporting.   

         As
the tables above illustrate, Allstate's net reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense at the end of 2012 decreased in 2013 by $121 million, compared to
reestimates of the gross reserves of an increase of $1.25 billion. Net reserve reestimates in 2013, 2012 and 2011 were more favorable than the gross reserve reestimates due to reinsurance
cessions.   

    Loss Reserve Reestimates     

         The following Loss Reserve Reestimates table illustrates the change over time of the net reserves established for property-liability
insurance claims and claims expense at the end of the last eleven calendar years. The first section shows the reserves as originally reported at the end of the stated year. The second section, reading
down, shows the cumulative amounts paid as of the end of successive years with respect to that reserve liability. The third section, reading down, shows retroactive reestimates of the original
recorded reserve as of the end of each successive year which is the result of Allstate's expanded awareness of additional facts and circumstances that pertain to the unsettled claims. The last section
compares the latest reestimated reserve to the reserve originally established, and indicates whether the original reserve was adequate to cover the estimated costs of unsettled claims. The table also
presents the gross reestimated liability as of the end of the latest reestimation period, with separate disclosure of the related reestimated reinsurance recoverable.   

         The
Loss Reserve Reestimates table is cumulative and, therefore, ending balances should not be added since the amount at the end of each calendar year includes activity for both the
current and prior years. Unfavorable reserve reestimates are shown in this table in parentheses.   

8  

Table of Contents   

As
shown in the above table, the subsequent cumulative increase in the net reserves established up to December 31, 2004, in general, reflect additions to reserves in the
Discontinued Lines and Coverages Segment, primarily for asbestos and environmental liabilities, which offset the effects of favorable severity trends experienced by Allstate Protection, as discussed
more fully below. The cumulative increases in reserves established as of December 31, 2006 and 2007 are due to the shift of reserves to older accident years attributable to a reallocation of
reserves related to employee postretirement benefits to more accident years, litigation settlements, reclassification of injury and non-injury reserves to older years along with reserve strengthening
as discussed below.   

         The
following table is derived from the Loss Reserve Reestimates table and summarizes the effect of reserve reestimates, net of reinsurance, on calendar year operations for the ten-year
period ended December 31, 2013. The total of each column details the amount of reserve reestimates made in the indicated calendar year and shows the accident years to which the reestimates are
applicable. The amounts in the total accident year column on the far right represent the cumulative reserve reestimates for the indicated accident year(s). Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in
this table in parentheses. The changes in total have generally been favorable other than 2008 which was adversely impacted due to litigation filed in conjunction with a Louisiana deadline for filing
suits related to Hurricane Katrina, as shown and discussed more fully below.   

In
2013, favorable prior year reserve reestimates were primarily due to auto severity development that was less than anticipated in previous estimates and catastrophe losses. The
increased reserves in accident years 2003   prior is due to reserve strengthening by the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment and a reclassification of injury reserves to older years.   

         In
2012, favorable prior year reserve reestimates were primarily due to catastrophe losses and auto severity development that was less than anticipated in previous estimates. The
increased reserves in accident years 2002   prior is due to a reclassification of injury reserves to older years and reserve strengthening.   

         In
2011, favorable prior year reserve reestimates were primarily due to auto severity development that was less than anticipated in previous estimates and catastrophe losses. The
increased reserves in accident years 2001   prior is due to a reclassification of injury reserves to older years and reserve strengthening.   

         In
2010, favorable prior year reserve reestimates were primarily due to Allstate Protection catastrophe losses and auto severity development that was less than anticipated in previous
estimates, partially offset by litigation settlements. The increased reserves in accident years 2000   prior is due to the litigation settlements of $100 million, a reclassification of
injury reserves to older years and reserve strengthening.   

         In
2009, favorable prior year reserve reestimates were primarily due to Allstate Protection catastrophe losses that were less than anticipated in previous estimates. The shift of
reserves to older accident years is attributable to a   

  9  

Table of Contents   

  reallocation
of reserves related to employee postretirement benefits to more accident years, and a reclassification of injury and 2008 non-injury reserves to older years.   

         In
2008, unfavorable prior year reserve reestimates were primarily due to Allstate Protection catastrophe losses that were more than anticipated in previous estimates.   

         In
2007, favorable prior year reserve reestimates were primarily due to Allstate Protection auto severity development that was less than what was anticipated in previous estimates.
Decreased reserve reestimates for Allstate Protection more than offset increased reestimates of losses primarily related to environmental liabilities reported by the Discontinued Lines and Coverages
segment.   

         In
2006, 2005 and 2004, favorable prior year reserve reestimates were primarily due to Allstate Protection auto injury severity and late reported loss development that was less than what
was anticipated in previous reserve estimates and in 2006, also by catastrophe losses that were less than anticipated in previous estimates. Decreased reserve reestimates for Allstate Protection more
than offset increased reestimates of losses primarily related to asbestos liabilities reported by the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment.   

For
additional information regarding reserves, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Property-Liability Claims
and Claims Expense Reserves."   

REGULATION            

         Allstate is subject to extensive regulation, primarily at the state level. The method, extent, and substance of such regulation varies
by state but generally has its source in statutes that establish standards and requirements for conducting the business of insurance and that delegate regulatory authority to a state agency. These
rules have a substantial effect on our business and relate to a wide variety of matters, including insurer solvency, reserve adequacy, insurance company licensing and examination, agent and adjuster
licensing, policy forms, rate setting, the nature and amount of investments, claims practices, participation in shared markets and guaranty funds, transactions with affiliates, the payment of
dividends, underwriting standards, statutory accounting methods, trade practices, and corporate governance. Some of these matters are discussed in more detail below. For a discussion of statutory
financial information, see Note 17 of the consolidated financial statements. For a discussion of regulatory contingencies, see Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements.
Notes 15 and 17 are incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

In
recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny. As part of an effort to strengthen the regulation of the financial services market,
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ("Dodd-Frank") was enacted in 2010. Many regulations required pursuant to this law must still be finalized, and we cannot predict what the
final regulations will require but do not expect a material impact on Allstate's operations. Dodd-Frank also created the Federal Insurance Office ("FIO") within the Treasury Department. The FIO
monitors the insurance industry, provides advice to the Financial Stability Oversight Council ("FSOC"), represents the U.S. on international insurance matters, and studies the current regulatory
system. FIO submitted a report to Congress in December 2013 addressing how to improve and modernize the system of insurance regulation. In addition, state legislators and insurance regulators continue
to examine the appropriate nature and scope of state insurance regulation. We cannot predict whether any specific state or federal measures will be adopted to change the nature or scope of the
regulation of insurance or what effect any such measures would have on Allstate. We are working for changes in the regulatory environment, including recognizing the need for better catastrophe
preparedness, promoting the creation of government-sponsored, privately-funded solutions for mega-catastrophes that will make insurance more available and affordable, improving appropriate risk-based
pricing, and promoting ways to make regulation more uniform and consistent across the country.   

Agent and Broker Compensation.       In recent years, several states considered new legislation or regulations regarding the compensation of agents
and
brokers by insurance companies. The proposals ranged in nature from new disclosure requirements to new duties on insurance agents and brokers in dealing with customers. Agents and brokers in New York
are required to disclose certain information concerning compensation.   

           Limitations on Dividends By Insurance Subsidiaries.       As a holding company with no significant business operations of its own, The Allstate
Corporation
relies on dividends from Allstate Insurance Company as one of the principal sources of cash to pay dividends and to meet its obligations, including the payment of principal and interest on debt.
Allstate Insurance Company is regulated as an insurance company in Illinois and its ability to pay dividends is restricted by Illinois law. For additional information regarding those restrictions, see
Part II, Item 5 of this report. The laws of the other jurisdictions that generally govern our other insurance subsidiaries contain similar limitations on the payment of dividends and in
some jurisdictions the laws may be more restrictive.   

  10  

Table of Contents   

           Insurance Holding Company Regulation.       The Allstate Corporation and Allstate Insurance Company are insurance holding companies subject to
regulation
in the jurisdictions in which their insurance subsidiaries do business. In the U.S., these subsidiaries are organized under the insurance codes of California, Florida, Illinois, Massachusetts,
Nebraska, New York, Texas, and Wisconsin, and some of these subsidiaries are considered commercially domiciled in California and Florida. Generally, the insurance codes in these states provide that
the acquisition or change of "control" of a domestic or commercially domiciled insurer or of any person that controls such an insurer cannot be consummated without the prior approval of the relevant
insurance regulator. In general, a presumption of "control" arises from the ownership, control, possession with the power to vote, or possession of proxies with respect to, ten percent or more of the
voting securities of an insurer or of a person that controls an insurer. In addition, certain state insurance laws require pre-acquisition notification to state agencies of a change in control with
respect to a non-domestic insurance company licensed to do business in that state. While such pre-acquisition notification statutes do not authorize the state agency to disapprove the change of
control, such statutes do authorize certain remedies, including the issuance of a cease and desist order with respect to the non-domestic insurer if certain conditions exist, such as undue market
concentration. Thus, any transaction involving the acquisition of ten percent or more of The Allstate Corporation's common stock would generally require prior approval by the state insurance
departments in California, Illinois, Massachusetts, Nebraska, New York, Texas, and Wisconsin. The prior approval of the Florida insurance department would be necessary for the acquisition of five
percent or more. Moreover, notification would be required in those other states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification provisions and where the insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact
business. Such approval requirements may deter, delay, or prevent certain transactions affecting the ownership of The Allstate Corporation's common stock.   

Rate Regulation.       Nearly all states have insurance laws requiring personal property and casualty insurers to file rating plans, policy or
coverage
forms, and other information with the state's regulatory authority. In many cases, such rating plans, policy forms, or both must be approved prior to use.   

         The
speed with which an insurer can change rates in response to competition or in response to increasing costs depends, in part, on whether the rating laws are (i) prior approval,
(ii) file-and-use, or (iii) use-and-file laws. In states having prior approval laws, the regulator must approve a rate before the insurer may use it. In states having file-and-use laws,
the insurer does not have to wait for the regulator's approval to use a rate, but the rate must be filed with the regulatory authority prior to being used. A use-and-file law requires an insurer to
file rates within a certain period of time after the insurer begins using them. Eighteen states, including California and New York, have prior approval laws. Under all three types of rating laws, the
regulator has the authority to disapprove a rate filing.   

         An
insurer's ability to adjust its rates in response to competition or to changing costs is often dependent on an insurer's ability to demonstrate to the regulator that its rates or
proposed rating plan meets the requirements of the rating laws. In those states that significantly restrict an insurer's discretion in selecting the business that it wants to underwrite, an insurer
can manage its risk of loss by charging a rate that reflects the cost and expense of providing the insurance. In those states that significantly restrict an insurer's ability to charge a rate that
reflects the cost and expense of providing the insurance, the insurer can manage its risk of loss by being more
selective in the type of business it underwrites. When a state significantly restricts both underwriting and pricing, it becomes more difficult for an insurer to maintain its profitability.   

         From
time to time, the private passenger auto insurance industry comes under pressure from state regulators, legislators, and special interest groups to reduce, freeze, or set rates at
levels that do not correspond with our analysis of underlying costs and expenses. Homeowners insurance can come under similar pressure, particularly in states subject to significant increases in loss
costs from high levels of catastrophe losses. We expect this kind of pressure to persist. In addition, Allstate and other insurers are using increasingly sophisticated pricing models that are being
reviewed by regulators and special interest groups. The result could be legislation or regulation that adversely affects the profitability or growth of the Allstate Protection segment. We cannot
predict the impact on our business of possible future legislative and regulatory measures regarding rating.   

           Involuntary Markets.       As a condition of maintaining our licenses to write personal property and casualty insurance in various states, we are
required
to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities, and joint underwriting associations that provide various types of insurance coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are unable
to purchase such coverage from private insurers. Underwriting results related to these arrangements, which tend to be adverse, have been immaterial to our results of operations.   

           Michigan Catastrophic Claim Association.       The Michigan Catastrophic Claim Association ("MCCA") is a mandatory insurance coverage and
reinsurance
indemnification mechanism for personal injury protection losses that provides indemnification for losses over a retention level that increases every other MCCA fiscal year. The retention level is   

  11  

Table of Contents   

  $530 thousand
per claim and $500 thousand per claim for the fiscal years ending June 30, 2014 and June 30, 2013, respectively. It operates similar to a reinsurance program
and is funded by participating companies through a per vehicle annual assessment. This assessment is included in our premiums that we charge our customers and when collected, we remit the assessment
to the MCCA. The MCCA may not be funded on an actuarial basis and can accumulate unfunded claims liabilities. As required for a member company, we report covered paid and unpaid claims to the MCCA,
when estimates of loss for a reported claim are expected to exceed the retention level. The MCCA reimburses members as claims are paid and billed by members to the MCCA. Because of the nature of the
coverage, losses may be paid over the lifetime of an insured, and accordingly, significant levels of incurred claims reserves are recorded by member companies as well as offsetting reinsurance
recoverables. The MCCA currently has unfunded claims liabilities with an obligation to indemnify its members. The MCCA's future operation and form are dependent upon the continuation of enabling state
legislation. We do not anticipate any material adverse financial impact from this entity on Allstate.   

Guaranty Funds.       Under state insurance guaranty fund laws, insurers doing business in a state can be assessed, up to prescribed limits, in
order to
cover certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies.   

           National Flood Insurance Program.       We voluntarily participate as a Write Your Own carrier in the National Flood Insurance Program ("NFIP").
The NFIP
is administered and regulated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. We operate in a fiduciary capacity as a fiscal agent of the federal government in the issuing and administering of the
Standard Flood Insurance Policy. This involves the collection of premiums belonging to the federal government and the paying of covered claims by directly drawing on funds of the United States
Treasury. We receive expense allowances from the NFIP for underwriting administration, claims management, commissions and adjuster fees. The federal government is obligated to pay all claims that fall
under the arrangement.   

           Investment Regulation.       Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulations that require investment portfolio diversification and that limit
the
amount of investment in certain categories. Failure to comply with these rules leads to the treatment of non-conforming investments as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus.
Further, in some instances, these rules require divestiture of non-conforming investments.   

Exiting Geographic Markets; Canceling and Non-Renewing Policies.       Most states regulate an insurer's ability to exit a market. For example,
states may
limit, to varying degrees, an insurer's ability to cancel and non-renew policies. Some states restrict or prohibit an insurer from withdrawing one or more types of insurance business from the state,
except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. Regulations that limit cancellation and non-renewal and that subject withdrawal plans to prior approval requirements may
restrict an insurer's ability to exit unprofitable markets.   

          Variable Life Insurance and Registered Fixed Annuities.       The sale and administration of variable life insurance and registered fixed annuities
with
market value adjustment features are subject to extensive regulatory oversight at the federal and state level, including regulation and supervision by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC")
and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA").   

           Broker-Dealers, Investment Advisors, and Investment Companies.       The Allstate entities that operate as broker-dealers, registered investment
advisors,
and investment companies are subject to regulation and supervision by the SEC, FINRA and/or, in some cases, state securities administrators.   

           Privacy Regulation.       Federal law and the laws of many states require financial institutions to protect the security and confidentiality of
customer
information and to notify customers about their policies and practices relating to collection and disclosure of customer information and their policies relating to protecting the security and
confidentiality of that information. Federal law and the laws of many states also regulate disclosures and disposal of customer information. Congress, state legislatures, and regulatory authorities
are expected to consider additional regulation relating to privacy and other aspects of customer information.   

Asbestos.       Congress has considered legislation to address asbestos claims and litigation in the past, but unified support among various
defendant and
insurer groups considered essential to any possible reform has been lacking. We cannot predict the impact on our business of possible future legislative measures regarding asbestos.   

           Environmental.       Environmental pollution and clean-up of polluted waste sites is the subject of both federal and state regulation. The
Comprehensive
Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 ("Superfund") and comparable state statutes ("mini-Superfund") govern the clean-up and restoration of waste sites by Potentially
Responsible Parties ("PRPs"). Superfund and the mini-Superfunds (Environmental Clean-up Laws or "ECLs") establish a mechanism to assign liability to PRPs or to fund the clean-up of waste sites if PRPs
fail to do so. The extent of liability to be allocated to a PRP is dependent on a variety of factors. By some estimates, there are thousands of potential waste   

  12  

Table of Contents   

  sites
subject to clean-up, but the exact number is unknown. The extent of clean-up necessary and the process of assigning liability remain in dispute. The insurance industry is involved in extensive
litigation regarding coverage issues arising out of the clean-up of waste sites by insured PRPs and the insured parties' alleged liability to third parties responsible for the clean-up. The insurance
industry, including Allstate, has disputed and is disputing many such claims. Key coverage issues include whether Superfund response, investigation, and clean-up costs are considered damages under the
policies; trigger of coverage; the applicability of several types of pollution exclusions; proper notice of claims; whether administrative liability triggers the duty to defend; appropriate allocation
of liability among triggered insurers; and whether the liability in question falls within the definition of an "occurrence." Identical coverage issues exist for clean-up and waste sites not covered
under Superfund. To date, courts have been inconsistent in their rulings on these issues. Allstate's exposure to liability with regard to its insureds that have been, or may be, named as PRPs is
uncertain. While comprehensive Superfund reform proposals have been introduced in Congress, only modest reform measures have been enacted.   

INTERNET WEBSITE            

         Our Internet website address is allstate.com. The Allstate Corporation's annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to such reports that we file or furnish pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available
through our Internet website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed or furnished to the SEC. In addition, our corporate governance guidelines, our code
of ethics, and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation and Succession Committee, Executive Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee, and Risk and Return Committee are available on our
website and in print to any stockholder who requests copies by contacting Investor Relations, The Allstate Corporation, 2775 Sanders Road, Northbrook, Illinois 60062-6127, 1-800-416-8803.   

OTHER INFORMATION ABOUT ALLSTATE            

         As of December 31, 2013, Allstate had approximately 38,800 full-time employees and 600 part-time employees.   

         Information
regarding revenues generated outside of the United States is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference to Note 20 of the consolidated financial
statements.   

         Allstate's
four business segments use shared services, including human resources, investment, finance, information technology and legal services, provided by Allstate Insurance Company
and other affiliates.   

         Although
the insurance business generally is not seasonal, claims and claims expense for the Allstate Protection segment tend to be higher for periods of severe or inclement weather.   

         "Allstate"
is one of the most recognized brand names in the United States. We use the names "Allstate," "Encompass," "Esurance" and "Lincoln Benefit Life " extensively in our
business, along with related service marks, logos, and slogans, such as "Good Hands ." Our rights in the United States to these names, service marks, logos, and slogans continue so long as
we continue to use them in commerce. These service marks and many others used by Allstate are the subject of renewable U.S. and/or foreign service mark registrations. We believe that these service
marks are important to our business and we intend to maintain our rights to them through continued use.   

  13  

Table of Contents    

Executive Officers of the Registrant     

         The following table sets forth the names of our executive officers, their ages as of February 1, 2014, their positions, and the
years of their first election as officers. "AIC" refers to Allstate Insurance Company.   

Name

Age    
     
    Position/Offices

Year First 
Elected 
Officer

Thomas J. Wilson  

56  
     
  Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer of The Allstate Corporation and of AIC.  

1995  

Don Civgin  

52  
     
      President and Chief Executive Officer Allstate Financial.  

2008  

James D. DeVries  

50  
     
      Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of AIC (Human Resources).  

2008  

Judith P. Greffin  

53  
     
      Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of AIC.  

2002  

Sanjay Gupta  

45  
     
      Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of AIC.  

2012  

Suren Gupta  

52  
     
      Executive Vice President, Allstate Technology and Operations of AIC.  

2011  

Susan L. Lees  

56  
     
      Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary of The Allstate Corporation and of AIC (Chief Legal
Officer).  

2008  

Katherine A. Mabe  

55  
     
      President, Business to Business of AIC.  

2011  

Samuel H. Pilch  

67  
     
      Senior Group Vice President and Controller of The Allstate Corporation and of AIC.  

1996  

Steven E. Shebik  

57  
     
      Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Allstate Corporation and of AIC.  

1999  

Steven C. Verney  

55  
     
      Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of AIC.  

1999  

Matthew E. Winter  

57  
     
      President Allstate Personal Lines of AIC.  

2009  

Each
of the officers named above may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause, by the board of directors of the relevant company.   

         Messrs. Wilson,
Civgin, DeVries, Pilch, Shebik and Verney, and Mmes. Greffin and Lees have held the listed positions for at least the last five years or have served Allstate in
various executive or administrative capacities for at least five years.   

         Prior
to joining Allstate in 2012, Mr. Sanjay Gupta served as Chief Marketing Officer of Ally Financial from 2008 to 2012 and Senior Vice President of Global Consumer and Small
Business Marketing at Bank of America from 2001 to 2008.   

         Prior
to joining Allstate in 2011, Mr. Suren Gupta served as Executive Vice President of Wells Fargo from 2003 to 2011.   

         Prior
to joining Allstate in 2011, Ms. Mabe served as President and CEO of The Economical Insurance Group, Canada from 2010 to 2011 and President Specialty Products of Nationwide
Mutual Insurance Company from 2008 to 2010.   

         Prior
to joining Allstate in 2009, Mr. Winter served as Vice Chairman of American International Group ("AIG") in 2009 and President and Chief Executive Officer of AIG American
General Domestic Life Companies from 2006 to 2009.    

Item 1A.  Risk Factors            

         This document contains "forward-looking statements" that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and plans that are
subject to uncertainty. These statements are made subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking
statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.   

  14  

Table of Contents   

         These
forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may be identified by their use of words like "plans," "seeks," "expects," "will," "should,"
"anticipates," "estimates," "intends," "believes," "likely," "targets" and other words with similar meanings. These statements may address, among other things, our strategy for growth, catastrophe
exposure management, product development, investment results, regulatory approvals, market position, expenses, financial results, litigation and reserves. We believe that these statements are based on
reasonable estimates, assumptions and plans. However, if the estimates, assumptions or plans underlying the forward-looking statements prove inaccurate or if other risks or uncertainties arise, actual
results could differ materially from those communicated in these forward-looking statements.   

         In
addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below, which apply to us as an insurer and a provider of other
products and financial services. These risks constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and readers should carefully review such cautionary
statements as they identify certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and historical trends. These cautionary
statements are not exclusive and are in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in this document, in our filings with the SEC or in materials incorporated therein by reference.   

Risks Relating to the Property-Liability business     

    As a property and casualty insurer, we may face significant losses from catastrophes and severe weather events     

         Because of the exposure of our property and casualty business to catastrophic events, our operating results and financial condition may
vary significantly from one period to the next. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural and man-made events, including earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, wildfires, tornadoes, tsunamis,
hurricanes, tropical storms and certain types of terrorism or industrial accidents. We may incur catastrophe losses in our auto and property business in excess of: (1) those experienced in
prior years, (2) the average expected level used in pricing, (3) our current reinsurance coverage limits, or (4) loss estimates from external hurricane and earthquake models at
various levels of probability. Despite our catastrophe management programs, we are exposed to catastrophes that could have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition. For
example, our historical catastrophe experience includes losses relating to Hurricane Katrina in 2005 totaling $3.6 billion, the Northridge earthquake of 1994 totaling $2.1 billion and
Hurricane Andrew in 1992 totaling $2.3 billion. We are also exposed to assessments from the California Earthquake Authority and various state-created insurance facilities, and to losses that
could surpass the capitalization of these facilities. Our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple catastrophes, which result in extraordinary losses or a downgrade of our debt or
financial strength ratings.   

         In
addition, we are subject to claims arising from weather events such as winter storms, rain, hail and high winds. The incidence and severity of weather conditions are largely
unpredictable. There is generally an increase in the frequency and severity of auto and property claims when severe weather conditions occur.   

    The nature and level of catastrophes in any period cannot be predicted and could be material to our operating results and financial condition     

Along with others in the insurance industry, we use models developed by third party vendors as well as our own historic data in
assessing our property insurance exposure to catastrophe losses. These models assume various conditions and probability scenarios. Such models do not necessarily accurately predict future losses or
accurately measure losses currently incurred. Catastrophe models, which have been evolving since the early 1990s, use historical information and scientific research about hurricanes and earthquakes
and also utilize detailed information about our in-force business. While we use this information in connection with our pricing and risk management activities, there are limitations with respect to
its usefulness in predicting losses in any reporting period as actual catastrophic events vary considerably. Other limitations are evident in significant variations in estimates between models,
material increases and decreases in results due to model changes and refinements of the underlying data elements and actual conditions that are not yet well understood or may not be properly
incorporated into the models.   

    Impacts of catastrophes and our catastrophe management strategy may adversely affect premium growth     

         Due to our catastrophe risk management efforts, the size of our homeowners business has been negatively impacted and may continue to be
negatively impacted if we take further actions. Homeowners premium growth rates and retention could be more adversely impacted than we expect by adjustments to our business structure, size and
underwriting practices in markets with significant catastrophe risk exposure. In addition, due to the diminished potential for cross-selling opportunities that cannot be fully replaced by brokering
arrangements that allow our agents to write   

  15  

Table of Contents   

  property
products with other carriers, new business growth in our auto lines has been and could continue to be lower than expected.   

A regulatory environment that limits rate increases and requires us to underwrite business and participate in loss sharing arrangements may adversely affect our operating
results and financial condition     

         From time to time, political events and positions affect the insurance market, including efforts to suppress rates to a level that may
not allow us to reach targeted levels of profitability. For example, if Allstate Protection's loss ratio compares favorably to that of the industry, state or provincial regulatory authorities may
impose rate rollbacks, require us to pay premium refunds to policyholders, or resist or delay our efforts to raise rates even if the property and casualty industry generally is not experiencing
regulatory resistance to rate increases. Such resistance affects our ability, in all product lines, to obtain approval for rate changes that may be required to achieve targeted levels of profitability
and returns on equity. Our ability to afford reinsurance required to reduce our catastrophe risk in designated areas may be dependent upon the ability to adjust rates for its cost.   

         In
addition to regulating rates, certain states have enacted laws that require a property-liability insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans,
reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations or require the insurer to offer coverage to all consumers, often restricting an insurer's ability to charge the price it might otherwise
charge. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired rates, possibly leading to an unacceptable return on equity, or as the facilities
recognize a financial deficit, they may in turn have the ability to assess participating insurers, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. Laws and regulations of many
states also limit an insurer's ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance in the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. Additionally, certain
states require insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the
state. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by any of these factors.   

    The potential benefits of our sophisticated risk segmentation process may not be fully realized     

         We believe that our sophisticated pricing and underwriting methods (which, in some situations, considers information that is obtained
from credit reports and other factors) has allowed us to be more competitive and operate more profitably. However, because many of our competitors seek to adopt underwriting criteria and sophisticated
pricing models similar to those we use, our competitive advantage could decline or be lost. Further, the use of increasingly sophisticated pricing models is being reviewed by regulators and special
interest groups. Competitive pressures could also force us to modify our sophisticated pricing models. Furthermore, we cannot be assured that these sophisticated pricing models will accurately reflect
the level of losses that we will ultimately incur.   

    Allstate Protection's operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the property and casualty business     

         The property and casualty market can be cyclical and has experienced periods characterized by relatively high levels of price
competition, less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively lower levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and
relatively high premium rates. A downturn in the profitability cycle of the property and casualty business could have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition.   

    Unexpected increases in the severity or frequency of claims may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition     

         Unexpected changes in the severity or frequency of claims may affect the profitability of our Allstate Protection segment. Changes in
bodily injury claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in the medical sector of the economy and litigation. Changes in auto physical damage claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in
auto repair costs, auto parts prices and used car prices. Changes in homeowners claim severity are driven by inflation in the construction industry, in building materials and in home furnishings, and
by other economic and environmental factors, including increased demand for services and supplies in areas affected by catastrophes. However, changes in the level of the severity of claims are not
limited to the effects of inflation and demand surge in these various sectors of the economy. Increases in claim severity can arise from unexpected events that are inherently difficult to predict.
Although we pursue various loss management initiatives in the Allstate Protection segment in order to mitigate future increases in claim severity, there can be no assurances that these initiatives
will successfully identify or reduce the effect of future increases in claim severity.   

  16  

Table of Contents   

         Our
Allstate Protection segment may experience volatility in claim frequency from time to time, and short-term trends may not continue over the longer term. A significant increase in
claim frequency could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.   

    Actual claims incurred may exceed current reserves established for claims and may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition     

         Recorded claim reserves in the Property-Liability business are based on our best estimates of losses, both reported and incurred but
not reported claims reserves ("IBNR"), after considering known facts and interpretations of circumstances. Internal factors are considered including our experience with similar cases, actual claims
paid, historical trends involving claim payment patterns, pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management programs, product mix and contractual terms. External factors are also considered, such as
court decisions and changes in law, regulatory requirements and economic conditions. Because reserves are estimates of the unpaid portion of losses that have occurred, including IBNR losses, the
establishment of appropriate reserves, including reserves for catastrophes, is an inherently uncertain and complex process. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded reserves and
such variance may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.   

    Predicting claim expense relating to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines is inherently uncertain and may have a material effect on our operating results and
financial condition     

         The process of estimating asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines liabilities is complicated by complex legal issues
concerning, among other things, the interpretation of various insurance policy provisions and whether losses are covered, or were ever intended to be covered, and whether losses could be recoverable
through retrospectively determined premium, reinsurance or other contractual agreements. Asbestos-related bankruptcies and other asbestos litigation are complex, lengthy proceedings that involve
substantial uncertainty for insurers. Actuarial techniques and databases used in estimating asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines net loss reserves may prove to be inadequate indicators
of the extent of probable loss. Ultimate net losses from these discontinued lines could materially exceed established loss reserves and expected recoveries and have a material effect on our operating
results and financial condition.   

    Risks Relating to the Allstate Financial Segment     

    Changes in underwriting and actual experience could materially affect profitability and financial condition     

         Our product pricing includes long-term assumptions regarding investment returns, mortality, morbidity, persistency and operating costs
and expenses of the business. We establish target returns for each product based upon these factors and the average amount of capital that we must hold to support in-force contracts taking into
account rating agencies and regulatory requirements. We monitor and manage our pricing and overall sales mix to achieve target new business returns on a portfolio basis, which could result in the
discontinuation or de-emphasis of products and a decline in sales. Profitability from new business emerges over a period of years depending on the nature and life of the product and is subject to
variability as actual results may differ from pricing assumptions. Additionally, many of our products have fixed or guaranteed terms that limit our ability to increase revenues or reduce benefits,
including credited interest, once the product has been issued.   

         Our
profitability in this segment depends on the sufficiency of premiums and contract charges to cover mortality and morbidity benefits, the persistency of policies to ensure recovery of
acquisition expenses, the adequacy of investment spreads, the management of market and credit risks associated with investments, and the management of operating costs and expenses within anticipated
pricing allowances. Legislation and regulation of the insurance marketplace and products could also affect our profitability and financial condition.   

    Changes in reserve estimates may adversely affect our operating results     

         The reserve for life-contingent contract benefits is computed on the basis of long-term actuarial assumptions of future investment
yields, mortality, morbidity, persistency and expenses. We periodically review the adequacy of these reserves on an aggregate basis and if future experience differs significantly from assumptions,
adjustments to reserves and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ("DAC") may be required that could have a material effect on our operating results.   

    Changes in market interest rates may lead to a significant decrease in the profitability of spread-based products     

         Our ability to manage the in-force Allstate Financial spread-based products, such as fixed annuities, is dependent upon maintaining
profitable spreads between investment yields and interest crediting rates. When market interest rates decrease or remain at relatively low levels, proceeds from investments that have matured or have
been prepaid or sold   

  17  

Table of Contents   

  may
be reinvested at lower yields, reducing investment spread. Lowering interest crediting rates on some products in such an environment can partially offset decreases in investment yield. However,
these changes could be
limited by regulatory minimum rates or contractual minimum rate guarantees on many contracts and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in investment yields. Increases in market interest
rates can have negative effects on Allstate Financial, for example by increasing the attractiveness of other investments to our customers, which can lead to increased surrenders at a time when the
segment's fixed income investment asset values are lower as a result of the increase in interest rates. This could lead to the sale of fixed income securities at a loss. In addition, changes in market
interest rates impact the valuation of derivatives embedded in equity-indexed annuity contracts that are not hedged, which could lead to volatility in net income.   

    Changes in estimates of profitability on interest-sensitive life products may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition through the amortization of DAC     

         DAC related to interest-sensitive life contracts is amortized in proportion to actual historical gross profits and estimated future
gross profits ("EGP") over the estimated lives of the contracts. The principal assumptions for determining the amount of EGP are mortality, persistency, expenses, investment returns, including capital
gains and losses on assets supporting contract liabilities, interest crediting rates to contractholders, and the effects of any hedges. Updates to these assumptions (commonly referred to as "DAC
unlocking") could result in accelerated amortization of DAC and thereby adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.   

    Reducing our concentration in spread-based business and exiting certain distribution channels may adversely affect reported results     

         We have been reducing our concentration in spread-based business and will no longer offer fixed annuities effective January 1,
2014. We also exited the independent master brokerage agencies and structured settlement annuity brokers distribution channels in 2013. The reduction in sales of these products could negatively impact
investment portfolio levels, complicate settlement of contract benefits including forced sales of assets with unrealized capital losses, and affect goodwill impairment testing and insurance reserves
deficiency testing.   

    Changes in tax laws may decrease sales and profitability of products and adversely affect our financial condition     

         Under current federal and state income tax law, certain products we offer, primarily life insurance, receive favorable tax treatment.
This favorable treatment may give certain of our products a competitive advantage over noninsurance products. Congress and various state legislatures from time to time consider legislation that would
reduce or eliminate the favorable policyholder tax treatment currently applicable to life insurance. Congress and various state legislatures also consider proposals to reduce the taxation of certain
products or investments that may compete with life insurance. Legislation that increases the taxation on insurance products or reduces the taxation on competing products could lessen the advantage or
create a disadvantage for certain of our products making them less competitive. Such proposals, if adopted, could have a material effect on our profitability and financial condition or ability to sell
such products and could result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies. In addition, changes in the federal estate tax laws could negatively affect the demand for the types of life
insurance used in estate planning.   

    We may not be able to mitigate the capital impact associated with statutory reserving requirements, potentially resulting in a need to increase prices, reduce sales of term
or universal life products, and/or a return on equity below original levels assumed in pricing     

         To support statutory reserves for certain term and universal life insurance products with secondary guarantees, we currently utilize
reinsurance and capital markets solutions for financing a portion of our statutory reserve requirements deemed to be non-economic. As we continue to underwrite term and universal life business, we
expect to have additional financing needs to mitigate the impact of these reserve requirements. If we do not obtain additional financing as a result of market conditions or otherwise, this could
require us to increase prices, reduce our sales of term or universal life products, and/or result in a return on equity below original levels assumed in pricing.   

    Risks Relating to Investments     

    We are subject to market risk and declines in credit quality which may adversely affect investment income and cause realized and unrealized losses     

Although we continually reevaluate our investment management strategies, we remain subject to the risk that we will incur losses due to
adverse changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices or currency exchange rates. Adverse changes in these rates, spreads and prices may occur due to changes in monetary policy and the
economic climate, the liquidity of a market or market segment, investor return expectations and/or risk tolerance, insolvency or   

  18  

Table of Contents   

  financial
distress of key market makers or participants, or changes in market perceptions of credit worthiness. We are also subject to market risk related to investments in real estate, loans and
securities collateralized by real estate. Some of our investment strategies target individual investments with unique risks that are not highly correlated with broad market risks. Although we expect
these investments to increase total portfolio returns over time, their performance may vary from and under-perform relative to the market in some periods.   

         We
are subject to risks associated with potential declines in credit quality related to specific issuers or specific industries and a general weakening in the economy, which are
typically reflected through credit spreads. Credit spread is the additional yield on fixed income securities and loans above the risk-free rate (typically referenced as the yield on U.S. Treasury
securities) that market participants require to compensate them for assuming credit, liquidity and/or prepayment risks. Credit spreads vary (i.e. increase or decrease) in response to the market's
perception of risk and liquidity in a specific issuer or specific sector and are influenced by the credit ratings, and the reliability of those ratings, published by external rating agencies. Although
we have the ability to use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks, the effectiveness of such instruments is subject to the same risks. Adverse economic conditions or other factors
could cause declines in the quality and valuation of our investment portfolio that could result in realized and unrealized losses.   

A
decline in market interest rates or credit spreads could have an adverse effect on our investment income as we invest cash in new investments that may earn less than the portfolio's
average yield. In a declining interest rate environment, borrowers may prepay or redeem securities more quickly than expected as they seek to refinance at lower rates. A decline could also lead us to
purchase longer-term or riskier assets in order to obtain adequate investment yields resulting in a duration gap when compared to the duration of liabilities. Alternatively, longer-term assets may be
sold and reinvested in shorter-term assets in anticipation of rising interest rates. An increase in market interest rates or credit spreads could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment
portfolio by decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial majority of our investment portfolio. Declining equity markets could also cause the investments in
our pension plans to decrease and decreasing interest rates could cause the funding target and the projected benefit obligation of our pension plans or the accumulated benefit obligation of our other
postretirement benefit plans to increase, either or both resulting in a decrease in the funded status of the pension plans and a reduction in the accumulated other comprehensive income component of
shareholders' equity, increases in pension and other postretirement benefit expense and increases in required contributions to the pension plans.   

Deteriorating financial performance impacting securities collateralized by residential and commercial mortgage loans, collateralized corporate loans, and commercial mortgage
loans may lead to write-downs and impact our results of operations and financial condition     

         Adverse changes in residential or commercial mortgage delinquencies, loss severities or recovery rates, declining residential or
commercial real estate prices, corporate loan delinquencies or recovery rates, borrower ability to obtain alternative sources of financing, changes in credit or bond insurer strength ratings and the
quality of service provided by service providers on securities in our portfolios could lead us to determine that write-downs are necessary in the future.   

Concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects on our operating results and financial condition     

         The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular industry, collateral type, group of related industries, geographic
sector or risk type could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolios and consequently on our results of operations and financial condition. Events or developments that have a negative impact
on any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic region may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated rather
than diversified.   

    The determination of the amount of realized capital losses recorded for impairments of our investments is subjective and could materially impact our operating results and
financial condition     

         The determination of the amount of realized capital losses recorded for impairments vary by investment type and is based upon our
ongoing evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes
available. We update our evaluations regularly and reflect changes in other-than-temporary impairments in our results of operations. The assessment of whether other-than-temporary impairments have
occurred is based on our case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. Our conclusions on such assessments are judgmental and include assumptions and projections of
future cash flows which may ultimately prove to be incorrect as assumptions, facts and circumstances change. Furthermore, historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments and additional
impairments may need to be recorded in the future.   

  19  

Table of Contents   

    The determination of the fair value of our fixed income and equity securities is subjective and could materially impact our operating results and financial condition     

         In determining fair values we principally use the market approach which utilizes market transaction data for the same or similar
instruments. The degree of management judgment involved in determining fair values is inversely related to the availability of market observable information. The fair value of assets may differ from
the actual amount received upon sale of an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Moreover, the use of different valuation assumptions may have a material
effect on the assets' fair values. The difference between amortized cost or cost and fair value, net of deferred income taxes, certain life and annuity DAC, certain deferred sales inducement costs,
and certain reserves for life-contingent contract benefits, is reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders' equity. Changing market conditions could materially
affect the determination of the fair value of securities and unrealized net capital gains and losses could vary significantly.   

    Risks Relating to the Insurance Industry     

    Our future growth and profitability are dependent in part on our ability to successfully operate in an insurance industry that is highly competitive     

The insurance industry is highly competitive. Many of our primary insurance competitors have well-established national reputations and
market similar products.   

         We
have invested in growth strategies by acting on our customer value propositions for each of our brands, through our differentiated product offerings and our distinctive advertising
campaigns. If we are unsuccessful in generating new business and retaining a sufficient number of our customers, our ability to increase premiums written could be impacted. In addition, if we
experience unexpected increases in our underlying costs (such as the frequency or severity of claims costs) generated by our new business, it could result in decreases in our profitability and lead to
price increases which could impair our ability to compete effectively for insurance business.   

Because
of the competitive nature of the insurance industry, there can be no assurance that we will continue to effectively compete with our industry rivals, or that competitive
pressures will not have a material effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. This includes competition for producers such as exclusive and independent agents and their licensed
sales professionals. In the event we are unable to attract and retain these producers or they are unable to attract and retain customers for our products, growth and retention could be materially
affected. Furthermore, certain competitors operate using a mutual insurance company structure and therefore may have dissimilar profitability and return targets. Our ability to successfully operate
may also be impaired if we are not effective in anticipating the impact on our business of changing technology, including automotive technology, developing the talent and skills of our human
resources, attracting and assimilating new executive talent into our organization, or deploying human resource talent consistently with our business goals.   

    Difficult conditions in the global economy and capital markets generally could adversely affect our business and operating results and these conditions may not improve in
the near future     

         As with most businesses, we believe difficult conditions in the global economy and capital markets, such as significant negative
macroeconomic trends, including relatively high and sustained unemployment, reduced consumer spending, lower residential and commercial real estate prices, substantial increases in delinquencies on
consumer debt, including defaults on home mortgages, and the relatively low availability of credit could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.   

         Stressed
conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets, particular markets or financial asset classes could adversely affect our investment portfolio. Disruptions in
one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. Although the disruption in the global financial markets has moderated, not all global financial markets are functioning
normally, and the rate of recovery from the U.S. recession has been below historic averages. Several governments around the world have announced austerity actions to address their budget deficits that
may lead to a decline in economic activity. While European policy makers have developed mechanisms to address funding concerns, risks to the European economy and financial markets remain.   

         General
economic conditions could adversely affect us in the form of consumer behavior and pressure investment results. Consumer behavior changes could include decreased demand for our
products. For example, as consumers
purchase fewer automobiles, our sales of auto insurance may decline. Also, as consumers become more cost conscious, they may choose lower levels of auto and homeowners insurance. In addition, holders
of some of our interest-sensitive life insurance and annuity products may engage in an elevated level of discretionary withdrawals of contractholder   

  20  

Table of Contents   

  funds.
Our investment results could be adversely affected as deteriorating financial and business conditions affect the issuers of the securities in our investment portfolio.   

    There can be no assurance that we can accurately predict the timing and impact of changes in the Federal Reserve's monetary policy     

The Federal Reserve has indicated that it may change its highly accommodative monetary policy as the U.S. economic recovery strengthens
and unemployment declines. There can be no assurance as to the long-term impact such actions will have on the financial markets or on economic conditions, including potential inflationary effects.
Continued volatility and rising interest rates could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   

    Losses from legal and regulatory actions may be material to our operating results, cash flows and financial condition     

         As is typical for a large company, we are involved in various legal actions, including class action litigation challenging a range of
company practices and coverage provided by our insurance products, some of which involve claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts. We are also involved in various regulatory actions and
inquiries, including market conduct exams by state insurance regulatory agencies. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters, the ultimate liability may be in excess of
amounts currently accrued and may be material to our operating results or cash flows for a particular quarter or annual period and to our financial condition. The aggregate estimate of the range of
reasonably possible loss in excess of the amount accrued, if any, disclosed in Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements is not an indication of expected loss, if any. Actual results may
vary significantly from the current estimate.   

    We are subject to extensive regulation and potential further restrictive regulation may increase our operating costs and limit our growth     

         As insurance companies, broker-dealers, investment advisers and/or investment companies, many of our subsidiaries are subject to
extensive laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. Changes may sometimes lead to additional expenses, increased legal exposure, and additional limits on our
ability to grow or to achieve targeted profitability. Moreover, laws and regulations are
administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities, each of which exercises a degree of interpretive latitude, including state insurance regulators; state securities
administrators; state attorneys general and federal agencies including the SEC, the FINRA and the U.S. Department of Justice. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any
particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal issue may not result in compliance with another's interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged
in hindsight. In addition, there is risk that any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or that changes in the
overall legal environment may, even absent any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to
take from a legal risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow or to improve the profitability of our business.
Furthermore, in some cases, these laws and regulations are designed to protect or benefit the interests of a specific constituency rather than a range of constituencies. For example, state insurance
laws and regulations are generally intended to protect or benefit purchasers or users of insurance products, not holders of securities, which is generally the jurisdiction of the SEC, issued by The
Allstate Corporation. In many respects, these laws and regulations limit our ability to grow or to improve the profitability of our business.   

    Regulatory reforms, and the more stringent application of existing regulations, may make it more expensive for us to conduct our business     

         The federal government has enacted comprehensive regulatory reforms for financial services entities. As part of a larger effort to
strengthen the regulation of the financial services market, certain reforms are applicable to the insurance industry, including the FIO established within the Treasury Department.   

         In
recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under public scrutiny, members of Congress have discussed proposals to provide for federal chartering of insurance
companies, and the FIO and FSOC were established. In the future, if the FSOC were to determine that Allstate is a "systemically important" nonbank financial company, Allstate would be subject to
regulation by the Federal Reserve Board. We can make no assurances regarding the potential impact of state or federal measures that may change the nature or scope of insurance and financial
regulation.   

  21  

Table of Contents   

         These
regulatory reforms and any additional legislative change or regulatory requirements imposed upon us in connection with the federal government's regulatory reform of the financial
services industry or arising from reform related to the international regulatory capital framework for financial services firms, and any more stringent enforcement of existing regulations by federal
authorities, may make it more expensive for us to conduct our business, or limit our ability to grow or to achieve profitability.   

    Reinsurance may be unavailable at current levels and prices, which may limit our ability to write new business     

         Our personal lines catastrophe reinsurance program was designed, utilizing our risk management methodology, to address our exposure to
catastrophes nationwide. Market conditions beyond our control impact the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase. No assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain continuously
available to us to the same extent and on the same terms and rates as is currently available. For example, our ability to afford reinsurance to reduce our catastrophe risk in designated areas may be
dependent upon our ability to adjust premium rates for its cost, and there are no assurances that the terms and rates for our current reinsurance program will continue to be available in future years.
If we were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to
either accept an increase in our catastrophe exposure, reduce our insurance writings, or develop or seek other alternatives.   

    Reinsurance subjects us to the credit risk of our reinsurers and may not be adequate to protect us against losses arising from ceded insurance, which could have a material
effect on our operating results and financial condition     

         The collectability of reinsurance recoverables is subject to uncertainty arising from a number of factors, including changes in market
conditions, whether insured losses meet the qualifying conditions of the reinsurance contract and whether reinsurers, or their affiliates, have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments
under the terms of a reinsurance treaty or contract. We also have credit risk exposure associated with the MCCA, a mandatory insurance coverage and reinsurance indemnification mechanism for personal
injury protection losses that provides indemnification for losses over a retention level that increases every other MCCA fiscal year, which is operating with a deficit. Our reinsurance recoverable
from the MCCA was $3.46 billion as of December 31, 2013. Our inability to collect a material recovery from a reinsurer could have a material effect on our operating results and financial
condition.   

    A large scale pandemic, the continued threat of terrorism or military actions may have an adverse effect on the level of claim losses we incur, the value of our investment
portfolio, our competitive position, marketability of product offerings, liquidity and operating results     

         A large scale pandemic, the continued threat of terrorism, within the United States and abroad, or military and other actions, and
heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and losses in our investment portfolio from declines in the equity markets and from interest rate
changes in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, and result in loss of life, property damage, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio
may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by a large scale pandemic or the continued threat of terrorism. Additionally, a large scale pandemic or
terrorist act could have a material effect on the sales, profitability, competitiveness, marketability of product offerings, liquidity, and operating results.   

    A downgrade in our financial strength ratings may have an adverse effect on our competitive position, the marketability of our product offerings, our liquidity, access to
and cost of borrowing, operating results and financial condition     

         Financial strength ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and generally have an
effect on an insurance company's business. On an ongoing basis, rating agencies review our financial performance and condition and could downgrade or change the outlook on our ratings due to, for
example, a change in one of our insurance company's statutory capital; a change in a rating agency's determination of the amount of risk-adjusted capital required to maintain a particular rating; an
increase in the perceived risk of our investment portfolio; a reduced confidence in management or our business strategy; as well as a number of other considerations that may or may not be under our
control. The insurance financial strength ratings of Allstate Insurance Company and Allstate Life Insurance Company and The Allstate Corporation's senior debt ratings from A.M. Best,
Standard   Poor's and Moody's are subject to continuous review, and the retention of current ratings cannot be assured. A downgrade in any of these ratings could have a material effect on our
sales, our competitiveness, the marketability of our product offerings, our liquidity, access to and cost of borrowing, operating results and financial condition.   

  22  

Table of Contents   

    Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs or our ability to obtain credit on acceptable terms     

         In periods of extreme volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, liquidity and credit capacity may be severely
restricted. In such circumstances, our ability to obtain capital to fund operating expenses, financing costs, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited, and the cost of any such capital may
be significant. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our
industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as lenders' perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory
authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and in such case, we
may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms.   

    We may be required to recognize impairments in the value of our goodwill, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition     

         Goodwill represents the excess of amounts paid for acquiring businesses over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Goodwill is
evaluated for impairment annually, or more frequently if conditions warrant, by comparing the carrying value (attributed equity) of a reporting unit to its estimated fair value. Market declines or
other events impacting the fair value of a reporting unit could result in a goodwill impairment, resulting in a charge to income. Such a charge could have an adverse effect on our results of
operations or financial condition.   

    Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our results of operations and
financial condition     

         Our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, which are periodically revised,
interpreted and/or expanded. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new guidance or interpretations, or could be subject to existing guidance as we enter into new transactions, which may have a
material effect on our results of operations and financial condition that is either unexpected or has a greater impact than expected. For a description of changes in accounting standards that are
currently pending and, if known, our estimates of their expected impact, see Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements.   

    The change in our unrecognized tax benefit during the next 12 months is subject to uncertainty     

         We have disclosed our estimate of unrecognized tax benefits and the reasonably possible increase or decrease in its balance during the
next 12 months in Note 16 of the consolidated financial statements. However, actual results may differ from our estimate for reasons such as changes in our position on specific issues,
developments with respect to the governments' interpretations of income tax laws or changes in judgment resulting from new information obtained in audits or the appeals process.   

    The realization of deferred tax assets is subject to uncertainty     

         The realization of our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, if any, is based on our assumption that we will be able to
fully utilize the deductions that are ultimately recognized for tax purposes. However, actual results may differ from our assumptions if adequate levels of taxable income are not attained.   

    The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends may affect our liquidity and ability to meet our obligations     

         The Allstate Corporation is a holding company with no significant operations. The principal asset is the stock of its subsidiaries.
State insurance regulatory authorities limit the payment of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, as described in Note 17 of the consolidated financial statements. In addition, competitive
pressures generally require the subsidiaries to maintain insurance financial strength ratings. These restrictions and other regulatory requirements affect the ability of the subsidiaries to make
dividend payments. Limits on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay dividends could adversely affect holding company liquidity, including our ability to pay dividends to shareholders, service our
debt, or complete share repurchase programs in the timeframe expected.   

    Our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock is subject to limitations under terms of certain of our securities     

         Subject to certain limited exceptions, during any dividend period while our preferred stock is outstanding, unless the full preferred
stock dividends for the preceding dividend period have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside and any declared but unpaid preferred stock
dividends for any prior period have been paid, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock. If and when dividends on our preferred stock have not been declared and paid in full for at
least six quarterly dividend periods, the authorized number   

  23  

Table of Contents   

  of
directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two additional directors, to be elected by the holders of our preferred stock together with the holders of all other affected
classes and series of voting parity stock, voting as a single class, subject to certain conditions.   

We
are prohibited from declaring or paying dividends on our preferred stock if we fail to meet specified capital adequacy, net income or shareholders' equity levels. The prohibition is
subject to an exception permitting us to declare dividends out of the net proceeds of common stock issued by us during the 90 days prior to the date of declaration even if we fail to meet such
levels.   

         The
terms of our outstanding subordinated debentures also prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on our common or preferred stock or redeeming, purchasing,
acquiring, or making liquidation payments on our common stock or preferred stock if we have elected to defer interest payments on the subordinated debentures, subject to certain limited exceptions.   

The failure in cyber or other information security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity
planning could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation, additional costs and impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively     

         We depend heavily upon computer systems to perform necessary business functions. Despite our implementation of a variety of security
measures, our computer systems could be subject to cyber attacks and unauthorized access, such as physical and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering. Like other global companies, we have
experienced threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, system failures and disruptions. Events such as these could jeopardize the confidential,
proprietary and other information (including personal information of our customers, claimants or employees) processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or
otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory penalties and/or customer
dissatisfaction or loss. These risks may increase in the future as we continue to expand our internet and mobile strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers.   

         In
the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, industrial accident, terrorist attack, war, cyber attack or computer virus, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery
systems, or a support failure from external providers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those
events affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage, and retrieval systems or destroy data. If a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our
ability to effectively conduct our business could be severely compromised.   

         Third
parties to whom we outsource certain of our functions are also subject to the risks outlined above, any one of which may result in our incurring substantial costs and other
negative consequences, including a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.   

    Changing climate conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, profitability or cash flows     

         Climate change, to the extent it produces changes in weather patterns, could affect the frequency or severity of weather events and
wildfires, the affordability and availability of homeowners insurance, and the results for our Allstate Protection segment.   

    Loss of key vendor relationships or failure of a vendor to protect personal information of our customers, claimants or employees could affect our operations     

We rely on services and products provided by many vendors in the United States and abroad. These include, for example, vendors of
computer hardware and software and vendors of services such as claim adjustment services and human resource benefits management services. In the event that one or more of our vendors suffers a
bankruptcy or otherwise becomes unable to continue to provide products or services, or fails to protect personal information of our customers, claimants or employees, we may suffer operational
impairments and financial losses.   

    We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims     

         We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our
intellectual property. Although we use a broad range of measures to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to
litigate to enforce and protect our intellectual property and to determine its scope, validity or enforceability, which could divert significant   

  24  

Table of Contents   

  resources
and prove unsuccessful. An inability to protect our intellectual property could have a material effect on our business.   

We
may be subject to claims by third parties for patent, trademark or copyright infringement or breach of usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in
significant expense and liability. If our third party providers or we are found to have infringed a third-party intellectual property right, either of us could be enjoined from providing certain
products or services or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. Alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly
licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly work around. Any of these scenarios could have a material effect on our business and results of operations.    

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments            

         None.    

Item 2.  Properties            

         Our home office complex is located in Northbrook, Illinois. As of December 31, 2013, the Home Office complex consists of several
buildings totaling 2.3 million square feet of office space on a 278-acre site.   

We
also operate from approximately 1,330 administrative, data processing, claims handling and other support facilities in North America. In addition to our home office facilities,
1.3 million square feet are owned and 7.4 million square feet are leased. Outside North America, we lease three properties in Northern Ireland comprising 161,460 square feet. We also
have one lease in India for 99,260 square feet. Generally, only major Allstate facilities are owned. In a majority of cases, new lease terms and renewals are for five years or less.   

         The
locations out of which the Allstate exclusive agencies operate in the U.S. are normally leased by the agencies as lessees.    

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings            

         Information required for Item 3 is incorporated by reference to the discussion under the heading "Regulation and Compliance" and
under the heading "Legal and regulatory proceedings and inquiries" in Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements.    

Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures            

         Not applicable.   

  25  

Table of Contents    

Part II            

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities            

         As of January 31, 2014, there were 93,107 record holders of The Allstate Corporation's common stock. The principal market for
the common stock is the New York Stock Exchange but it is
also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange. Set forth below are the high and low New York Stock Exchange Composite listing prices of, and cash dividends declared for, the common stock during 2013 and
2012.   

The
payment of dividends by Allstate Insurance Company ("AIC") to The Allstate Corporation is limited by Illinois insurance law to formula amounts based on statutory net income and
statutory surplus, as well as the timing and amount of dividends paid in the preceding twelve months. In the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2013, AIC paid dividends of
$1.95 billion. Based on the greater of 2013 statutory net income or 10% of statutory surplus, the maximum amount of dividends that AIC will be able to pay without prior Illinois Department of
Insurance approval at a given point in time in 2014 is $2.47 billion, less dividends paid during the preceding twelve months measured at that point in time. Notification and approval of
intercompany lending activities is also required by the Illinois Department of Insurance for those transactions that exceed formula amounts based on statutory admitted assets and statutory surplus.   

    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     

(1)     In
accordance with the terms of its equity compensation plans, Allstate acquired the following shares in connection with stock option
exercises by employees and/or directors. The stock was received in payment of the exercise price of the options and in satisfaction of withholding taxes due upon exercise or vesting.   

October:        5,220 
    November:    859 
    December:    91,266   

    (2)     From time to time, repurchases under our programs are executed under the terms of a pre-set trading plan
meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
       (3)     On February 6, 2013, we announced the approval of an additional share repurchase program for $1.00 billion, to
be completed by March 31, 2014.    

26  

Table of Contents    

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data            

    5-YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA     

(1)     As
of December 31, 2013, $11.98 billion of investments and $12.84 billion of reserves for life-contingent contract
benefits and contractholder funds are classified as held for sale relating to the pending sale of Lincoln Benefit Life Company (see Note 4 of the consolidated financial statements).
       (2)     We
use operating ratios to measure the profitability of our Property-Liability results. We believe that they enhance an investor's
understanding of our profitability. They are calculated as follows: Claims and claims expense ("loss") ratio is the ratio of claims and claims expense to premiums earned. Loss ratios include the
impact of catastrophe losses. Expense ratio is the ratio of amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.
Combined ratio is the ratio of claims and claims expense, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned. The
combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio. The difference between 100% and the combined ratio represents underwriting income (loss) as a percentage of premiums earned, or
underwriting margin.    

27  

Table of Contents    

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations            

28  

Table of Contents    

    OVERVIEW     

         The following discussion highlights significant factors influencing the consolidated financial position and results of operations of
The Allstate Corporation (referred to in this document as "we," "our," "us," the "Company" or "Allstate"). It should be read in conjunction with the 5-year summary of selected financial data,
consolidated financial statements and related notes found under Part II. Item 6. and Item 8. contained herein. Further analysis of our insurance segments is provided in the
Property-Liability Operations (which includes the Allstate Protection and the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments) and in the Allstate Financial Segment sections of Management's Discussion and
Analysis ("MD A"). The segments are consistent with the way in which we use financial information to evaluate business performance and to determine the allocation of resources. Resources are allocated
by the chief operating decision maker and performance is assessed for Allstate Protection, Discontinued Lines and Coverages and Allstate Financial. Allstate Protection performance and resources are
managed by a committee of senior officers of the segment.   

         Allstate
is focused on the following priorities in 2014:  

grow insurance policies in force;          maintain the underlying combined ratio;          proactively manage investments to generate attractive risk adjusted returns;          modernize the operating model; and          build long-term growth platforms.    

The
most important factors we monitor to evaluate the financial condition and performance of our company include:  

For Allstate Protection: premium, the number of policies in force ("PIF"), new business sales, retention, price changes,
claim frequency (rate of claim occurrence per policy in force) and severity (average cost per claim), catastrophes, loss ratio, expenses, underwriting results, and relative competitive position.          For Allstate Financial: benefit and investment spread, asset-liability matching, amortization of deferred policy
acquisition costs ("DAC"), expenses, operating income, net income, new business sales, invested assets, and premiums and contract charges.          For Investments: exposure to market risk,
credit quality/experience, total return, net investment income, cash flows,
realized capital gains and losses, unrealized capital gains and losses, stability of long-term returns, and asset and liability duration.          For financial condition: liquidity, parent
holding company level of deployable assets, financial strength ratings,
operating leverage, debt leverage, book value per share, and return on equity.    

Summary of Results:     

Consolidated net income available to common shareholders was $2.26 billion in 2013 compared to $2.31 billion
in 2012 and $787 million in 2011. The decrease in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to higher net income available to common shareholders from Property-Liability and the curtailment gain
reported in Corporate and Other being more than offset by the estimated loss on disposition related to the pending LBL sale recorded in Allstate Financial and the loss on extinguishment of debt and
settlement charges reported in Corporate and Other. The increase in 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to higher net income available to common shareholders from Property-Liability, partially
offset by lower net income available to common shareholders from Allstate Financial. Net income available to common shareholders per diluted common share was $4.81, $4.68 and $1.50 in 2013, 2012 and
2011, respectively.          Allstate Protection had underwriting income of $2.36 billion in 2013 compared to $1.25 billion in 2012 and
an underwriting loss of $857 million in 2011. The increase in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to increases in underwriting income in homeowners, other personal lines and auto resulting
from decreased catastrophe losses. The underwriting income in 2012 compared to the underwriting loss in 2011 was primarily due to underwriting income in homeowners and other personal lines in 2012
compared to underwriting losses in 2011, partially offset by a decrease in auto underwriting income. The Allstate Protection combined ratio was 91.5, 95.3 and 103.3 in 2013, 2012 and 2011,
respectively. Underwriting income (loss), a measure not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), is defined in the Property-Liability Operations
section of the MD A.          Allstate Financial net income available to common shareholders was $95 million in 2013 compared to
$541 million in 2012 and $590 million in 2011. The decrease in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to the estimated loss on disposition related to the pending LBL sale. The decrease
in 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to net realized capital losses in 2012 compared to net realized capital gains in 2011, lower net    
 
  29  

Table of Contents   

investment
income and higher life and annuity contract benefits, partially offset by decreased interest credited to contractholder funds and lower amortization of DAC.   

A number of capital management actions were completed in 2013, including refinancing long-term debt through a tender offer
and new issuances to take advantage of low interest rates and the issuance of preferred stock that allows for more financial flexibility. Consolidated shareholders' equity increased to
$21.48 billion as of December 31, 2013 from $20.58 billion as of December 31, 2012.    

2013 HIGHLIGHTS     

Consolidated net income available to common shareholders was $2.26 billion in 2013 compared to $2.31 billion
in 2012. Net income available to common shareholders per diluted common share was $4.81 in 2013 compared to $4.68 in 2012.          Property-Liability net income available to common shareholders
was $2.75 billion in 2013 compared to
$1.97 billion in 2012.          The Property-Liability combined ratio was 92.0 in 2013 compared to 95.5 in 2012.          Allstate
Financial net income available to common shareholders was $95 million in 2013 compared to
$541 million in 2012.          On July 17, 2013, we entered into a definitive agreement with Resolution Life Holdings, Inc. to sell Lincoln
Benefit Life Company ("LBL"), LBL's life insurance business generated through independent master brokerage agencies, and all of LBL's deferred fixed
annuity and long-term care insurance business for $600 million subject to certain adjustments as of the closing date. The estimated loss on disposition of $521 million, after-tax, was
recorded in 2013.          Total revenues were $34.51 billion in 2013 compared to $33.32 billion in 2012.          Property-Liability premiums earned totaled $27.62 billion in 2013, an increase of 3.3% from $26.74 billion
in 2012.          Investments totaled $81.16 billion as of December 31, 2013, decreasing from $97.28 billion as of
December 31, 2012. Investments classified as held for sale totaled $11.98 billion as of December 31, 2013. Net investment income was $3.94 billion in 2013, a decrease of
1.7% from $4.01 billion in 2012.          Net realized capital gains were $594 million in 2013 compared to $327 million in 2012.          Book value per diluted common share (ratio of common shareholders' equity to total common shares outstanding and dilutive
potential common shares outstanding) was $45.31 as of December 31, 2013, an increase of 6.9% from $42.39 as of December 31, 2012.          For the twelve months ended December 31,
2013, return on the average of beginning and ending period common
shareholders' equity was 11.0%, a decrease of 0.9 points from 11.9% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2012.          As of December 31, 2013, shareholders' equity was
$21.48 billion. This total included $2.56 billion
in deployable assets at the parent holding company level.          In July 2013, we announced changes to our employee pension and other postretirement benefit offerings. The remeasurement
of pension and other postretirement benefit obligations related to the changes resulted in a $658 million increase to accumulated other comprehensive income and a curtailment gain of
$118 million, after-tax. In addition, settlement losses of $150 million, after-tax, were recognized due to the level of lump sum benefit payments made during 2013.          In 2013, we
repurchased $1.90 billion of long-term debt, issued $2.30 billion of long-term debt and issued
$807.5 million of preferred stock. We recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $319 million, after-tax, in 2013.    
  30  

Table of Contents   

    CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME     

IMPACT OF LOW INTEREST RATE ENVIRONMENT     

         Despite the increase in interest rates during 2013, our current reinvestment yields are generally lower than the overall portfolio
income yield, primarily for our investments in fixed income securities and commercial mortgage loans. At the December 2013 meeting, the Federal Reserve Board announced its decision to reduce the
amount of its purchases of both longer-term Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities in the open market. The Federal Open Market Committee also reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative
stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase
program ends and the economic recovery strengthens and stated that it now anticipates that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate well past the
time that the unemployment rate declines below 6.5 percent, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal. We anticipate that
interest rates will continue to increase but remain below historic averages and the portfolio income yield for some period. We also expect capital markets to remain volatile.   

Deferred
annuity contracts with fixed and guaranteed crediting rates, or floors that limit crediting rate reductions, are adversely impacted by a prolonged low interest rate environment
since we may not be able to reduce crediting rates sufficiently to maintain investment spreads. Financial results of long duration products that do not have stated crediting   

  31  

Table of Contents   

  rate
guarantees but for which underlying assets may have to be reinvested at interest rates that are lower than portfolio rates, such as structured settlements and term life insurance, may also be
adversely impacted.   

         The
following table summarizes the weighted average guaranteed crediting rates and weighted average current crediting rates as of December 31, 2013 for certain fixed annuities and
interest-sensitive life contracts where management has the ability to change the crediting rate, subject to a contractual minimum. Other products, including equity-indexed, variable and immediate
annuities, equity-indexed and variable life, and institutional products totaling $6.39 billion of contractholder funds, have been excluded from the analysis because management does not have the
ability to change the crediting rate or the minimum crediting rate is not considered meaningful in this context.   

(1)     These
contracts include interest rate guarantee periods which are typically 5 or 6 years.    

Investing
activity will continue to decrease our portfolio yield as long as market yields remain below the current portfolio yield. In the Allstate Financial segment, the portfolio yield
has been less impacted by reinvestment in the current low interest rate environment, as much of the investment cash flows have been used to fund the managed reduction in spread-based liabilities. The
declines in both invested assets and portfolio yield are expected to result in lower net investment income in future periods.   

         For
the Allstate Financial Segment, we expect approximately 4.4% of the amortized cost of fixed income securities not subject to prepayment and approximately 7.8% of commercial mortgage
loans to mature in 2014. Allstate Financial has $25.77 billion of such fixed income securities and $4.29 billion of such commercial mortgage loans as of December 31, 2013.
Additionally, for asset-backed securities ("ABS"), residential mortgage-backed securities ("RMBS") and commercial mortgage-backed securities ("CMBS") that have the potential for prepayment and are
therefore not categorized by contractual maturity, we received periodic principal payments of $1.41 billion in 2013. To the extent portfolio cash flows are reinvested, the average pre-tax
investment yield of 5.5% is expected to decline due to lower market yields. These amounts exclude assets classified as held for sale.   

         For
the Property-Liability segment, we expect approximately 4.4% of the amortized cost of fixed income securities not subject to prepayment to mature in 2014. Property-Liability has
$25.33 billion of such assets as of December 31, 2013. Additionally, for ABS, RMBS and CMBS securities that have the potential for prepayment and are therefore not categorized by
contractual maturity, we received periodic principal payments of $528 million in 2013. We have been shortening the maturity profile of the fixed income securities in this segment to make the
portfolio less sensitive to a future rise in interest rates. This approach to reducing interest rate risk results in realized capital gains, but will contribute to lower portfolio yields as sales
proceeds are invested at lower market yields. The average pre-tax investment yield of 4.0% is expected to decline due to reinvesting at lower market yields.   

In
order to mitigate the unfavorable impact that the current interest rate environment has on investment results, we are:  

Managing our exposure to interest rate risk by maintaining a shorter maturity profile in the Property-Liability portfolio.          Shifting
the portfolio mix to have less reliance on investments whose returns come primarily from interest payments to
investments in which we have ownership interests and a greater proportion of return is derived from idiosyncratic operating or market performance including equities and real estate.          Investing to the specific needs and characteristics of Allstate's businesses.    

We
expect volatility in accumulated other comprehensive income resulting from changes in unrealized net capital gains and losses and unrecognized pension cost.   

         These
topics are discussed in more detail in the respective sections of the MD A.   

  32  

Table of Contents   

    APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES     

         The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and
assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. The most critical estimates include those used in determining:  

Fair value of financial assets          Impairment of fixed income and equity securities          Deferred policy acquisition costs amortization          Reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense estimation
         Reserve for life-contingent contract benefits estimation    

In
making these determinations, management makes subjective and complex judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies,
estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to our businesses and operations. It is reasonably likely that changes in these
estimates could occur from period to period and result in a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.   

         A
brief summary of each of these critical accounting estimates follows. For a more detailed discussion of the effect of these estimates on our consolidated financial statements, and the
judgments and assumptions related to these estimates, see the referenced sections of this document. For a complete summary of our significant accounting policies, see the notes to the consolidated
financial statements.   

           Fair value of financial assets       Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in
an
orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We are responsible for the determination of fair value of financial assets and the supporting assumptions and methodologies. We
use independent third-party valuation service providers, broker quotes and internal pricing methods to determine fair values. We obtain or calculate only one single quote or price for each financial
instrument.   

         Valuation
service providers typically obtain data about market transactions and other key valuation model inputs from multiple sources and, through the use of proprietary models, produce
valuation information in the form of a single fair value for individual fixed income and other securities for which a fair value has been requested under the terms of our agreements. The inputs used
by the valuation service providers include, but are not limited to, market prices from recently completed transactions and transactions of comparable securities, interest rate yield curves, credit
spreads, liquidity spreads, currency rates, and other information, as applicable. Credit and liquidity spreads are typically implied from completed transactions and transactions of comparable
securities. Valuation service providers also use proprietary discounted cash flow models that are widely accepted in the financial services industry and similar to those used by other market
participants to value the same financial instruments. The valuation models take into account, among other things, market observable information as of the measurement date, as described above, as well
as the specific attributes of the security being valued including its term, interest rate, credit rating, industry sector, and where applicable, collateral quality and other issue or issuer specific
information. Executing valuation models effectively requires seasoned professional judgment and experience. For certain equity securities, valuation service providers provide market quotations for
completed transactions on the measurement date. In cases where market transactions or other market observable data is limited, the extent to which judgment is applied varies inversely with the
availability of market observable information.   

         For
certain of our financial assets measured at fair value, where our valuation service providers cannot provide fair value determinations, we obtain a single non-binding price quote
from a broker familiar with the security who, similar to our valuation service providers, may consider transactions or activity in similar securities among other information. The brokers providing
price quotes are generally from the brokerage divisions of leading financial institutions with market making, underwriting and distribution expertise regarding the security subject to valuation.   

The
fair value of certain financial assets, including privately placed corporate fixed income securities, auction rate securities ("ARS") backed by student loans, equity-indexed notes,
and certain free-standing derivatives, for which our valuation service providers or brokers do not provide fair value determinations, is determined using valuation methods and models widely accepted
in the financial services industry. Our internal pricing methods are primarily based on models using discounted cash flow methodologies that develop a single best estimate of fair value. Our models
generally incorporate inputs that we believe are representative of inputs other market participants would use to determine fair value of the same instruments, including yield curves, quoted market
prices of comparable securities, published credit spreads, and other applicable market data as well as instrument-specific characteristics that include, but are not limited to, coupon rates, expected
cash flows, sector of the issuer, and call provisions. Judgment is required   

  33  

Table of Contents   

  in
developing these fair values. As a result, the fair value of these financial assets may differ from the amount actually received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date. Moreover, the use of different valuation assumptions may have a material effect on the financial assets' fair values.   

         For
most of our financial assets measured at fair value, all significant inputs are based on or corroborated by market observable data and significant management judgment does not affect
the periodic determination of fair value. The determination of fair value using discounted cash flow models involves management judgment when significant model inputs are not based on or corroborated
by market observable data. However, where market observable data is available, it takes precedence, and as a result, no range of reasonably likely inputs exists from which the basis of a sensitivity
analysis could be constructed.   

         We
gain assurance that our financial assets are appropriately valued through the execution of various processes and controls designed to ensure the overall reasonableness and consistent
application of valuation methodologies, including inputs and assumptions, and compliance with accounting standards. For fair values received from third parties or internally estimated, our processes
and controls are designed to ensure that the valuation methodologies are appropriate and consistently applied, the inputs and assumptions are reasonable and consistent with the objective of
determining fair value, and the fair values are accurately recorded. For example, on a continuing basis, we assess the reasonableness of individual fair values that have stale security prices or that
exceed certain thresholds as compared to previous fair values received from valuation service providers or brokers or derived from internal models. We perform procedures to understand and assess the
methodologies, processes and controls of valuation service providers. In addition, we may validate the reasonableness of fair values by comparing information obtained from valuation service providers
or brokers to other third party valuation sources for selected securities. We perform ongoing price validation procedures such as back-testing of actual sales, which corroborate the various inputs
used in internal models to market observable data. When fair value determinations are expected to be more variable, we validate them through reviews by members of management who have relevant
expertise and who are independent of those charged with executing investment transactions.   

We
also perform an analysis to determine whether there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for the asset when compared to normal market activity, and if
so, whether transactions may not be orderly. Among the indicators we consider in determining whether a significant decrease in the volume and level of market activity for a specific asset has occurred
include the level of new issuances in the primary market, trading volume in the secondary market, level of credit spreads over historical levels, bid-ask spread, and price consensuses among market
participants and sources. If evidence indicates that prices are based on transactions that are not orderly, we place little, if any, weight on the transaction price and will estimate fair value using
an internal model. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we did not alter fair values provided by our valuation service providers or brokers or substitute them with an internal model for such
securities.   

         The
following table identifies fixed income and equity securities and short-term investments, including those classified as held for sale, as of December 31, 2013 by source of
fair value determination:   

(1)     Includes
$2.98 billion that are valued using broker quotes.    

For
additional detail on fair value measurements, see Note 7 of the consolidated financial statements.   

Impairment of fixed income and equity securities       For investments classified as available for sale, the difference between fair value and
amortized
cost for fixed income securities and cost for equity securities, net of certain other items and deferred income taxes (as disclosed in Note 6), is reported as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and is not reflected in the operating results of any period until reclassified to net income upon the consummation of a
transaction with an unrelated third party or when a write-down is recorded due to an other-than-temporary decline in fair value. We have a comprehensive portfolio monitoring process to identify and
evaluate each fixed income and equity security whose carrying value may be other-than-temporarily impaired.   

  34  

Table of Contents   

         For
each fixed income security in an unrealized loss position, we assess whether management with the appropriate authority has made the decision to sell or whether it is more likely than
not we will be required to sell the security before recovery of the amortized cost basis for reasons such as liquidity, contractual or regulatory purposes. If a security meets either of these
criteria, the security's decline in fair value is considered other than temporary and is recorded in earnings.   

         If
we have not made the decision to sell the fixed income security and it is not more likely than not we will be required to sell the fixed income security before recovery of its
amortized cost basis, we evaluate whether we expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. We use our best estimate of future cash flows expected
to be collected from the fixed income security, discounted at the security's original or current effective rate, as appropriate, to calculate a recovery value and determine whether a credit loss
exists. The determination of cash flow estimates is inherently subjective and methodologies may vary depending on facts and circumstances specific to the security. All reasonably available information
relevant to the collectability of the security, including past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable assumptions and forecasts, are considered when developing the estimate of cash
flows expected to be collected. That information generally includes, but is not limited to, the remaining payment terms of the security, prepayment speeds, foreign exchange rates, the financial
condition and future earnings potential of the issue or issuer, expected defaults, expected recoveries, the value of underlying collateral, vintage, geographic concentration, available reserves or
escrows, current subordination levels, third party guarantees and other credit enhancements. Other information, such as industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings, financial
condition of the bond insurer for insured fixed income securities, and other market data relevant to the realizability of contractual cash flows, may also be considered. The estimated fair value of
collateral will be used to estimate recovery value if we determine that the security is dependent on the liquidation of collateral for ultimate settlement. If the estimated recovery value is less than
the amortized cost of the security, a credit loss exists and an other-than-temporary impairment for the difference between the estimated recovery value and amortized cost is
recorded in earnings. The portion of the unrealized loss related to factors other than credit remains classified in accumulated other comprehensive income. If we determine that the fixed income
security does not have sufficient cash flow or other information to estimate a recovery value for the security, we may conclude that the entire decline in fair value is deemed to be credit related and
the loss is recorded in earnings.   

         There
are a number of assumptions and estimates inherent in evaluating impairments of equity securities and determining if they are other than temporary, including: 1) our ability
and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for an anticipated recovery in value; 2) the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than
cost; 3) the financial condition, near-term and long-term prospects of the issue or issuer, including relevant industry specific market conditions and trends, geographic location and
implications of rating agency actions and offering prices; and 4) the specific reasons that a security is in an unrealized loss position, including overall market conditions which could affect
liquidity.   

         Once
assumptions and estimates are made, any number of changes in facts and circumstances could cause us to subsequently determine that a fixed income or equity security is
other-than-temporarily impaired, including: 1) general economic conditions that are worse than previously forecasted or that have a greater adverse effect on a particular issuer or industry
sector than originally estimated; 2) changes in the facts and circumstances related to a particular issue or issuer's ability to meet all of its contractual obligations; and 3) changes
in facts and circumstances that result in changes to management's intent to sell or result in our assessment that it is more likely than not we will be required to sell before recovery of the
amortized cost basis of a fixed income security or causes a change in our ability or intent to hold an equity security until it recovers in value. Changes in assumptions, facts and circumstances could
result in additional charges to earnings in future periods to the extent that losses are realized. The charge to earnings, while potentially significant to net income, would not have a significant
effect on shareholders' equity, since our securities are designated as available for sale and carried at fair value and as a result, any related unrealized loss, net of deferred income taxes and
related DAC, deferred sales inducement costs and reserves for life-contingent contract benefits, would already be reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders'
equity.   

         The
determination of the amount of other-than-temporary impairment is an inherently subjective process based on periodic evaluations of the factors described above. Such evaluations and
assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. We update our evaluations regularly and reflect changes in other-than-temporary impairments in results of operations
as such evaluations are revised. The use of different methodologies and assumptions in the determination of the amount of other-than-temporary impairments may have a material effect on the amounts
presented within the consolidated financial statements.   

         For
additional detail on investment impairments, see Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements.   

  35  

Table of Contents   

           Deferred policy acquisition costs amortization       We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring insurance policies and investment
contracts.
In accordance with GAAP, costs that are related directly to the successful acquisition of new or renewal insurance policies and investment contracts are deferred and recorded as an asset on the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.   

         DAC
related to property-liability contracts is amortized into income as premiums are earned, typically over periods of six or twelve months. The amortization methodology for DAC related
to Allstate Financial policies and contracts includes significant assumptions and estimates.   

         DAC
related to traditional life insurance is amortized over the premium paying period of the related policies in proportion to the estimated revenues on such business. Significant
assumptions relating to estimated premiums, investment returns, as well as mortality, persistency and expenses to administer the business are established at the time the policy is issued and are
generally not revised during the life of the policy. The assumptions for determining the timing and amount of DAC amortization are consistent with the assumptions used to calculate the reserve for
life-contingent contract benefits. Any deviations from projected business in force resulting from actual policy terminations differing from expected levels and any estimated premium deficiencies may
result in a change to the rate of amortization in the period such events occur. Generally, the amortization periods for these policies approximates the estimated lives of the policies. The recovery of
DAC is dependent upon the future profitability of the business. We periodically review the adequacy of reserves and recoverability of DAC for these policies on an aggregate basis using actual
experience. We aggregate all traditional life insurance products and immediate annuities with life contingencies in the analysis. In the event actual experience is significantly adverse compared to
the original assumptions and a premium deficiency is determined to exist, any remaining unamortized DAC balance must be expensed to the extent not recoverable and a premium deficiency reserve may be
required if the remaining DAC balance is insufficient to absorb the deficiency. In 2013, 2012 and 2011, our reviews concluded that no premium deficiency adjustments were necessary, primarily due to
projected profit from traditional life insurance more than offsetting the projected losses in immediate annuities with life contingencies.   

         DAC
related to interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment contracts is amortized in proportion to the incidence of the total present value of gross profits, which
includes both actual historical gross profits ("AGP") and estimated future gross profits ("EGP") expected to be earned over the estimated lives of the contracts. The amortization is net of interest on
the prior period DAC balance using rates established at the inception of the contracts. Actual amortization periods generally range from 15-30 years; however, incorporating estimates of the
rate of customer surrenders, partial withdrawals and deaths generally results in the majority of the DAC being amortized during the surrender charge period, which is typically 10-20 years for
interest-sensitive life and 5-10 years for fixed annuities. The cumulative DAC amortization is reestimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to income when there is a difference
between the incidence of actual versus expected gross profits in a reporting period or when there is a change in total EGP.   

AGP
and EGP primarily consist of the following components: contract charges for the cost of insurance less mortality costs and other benefits (benefit margin); investment income and
realized capital gains and losses less interest credited (investment margin); and surrender and other contract charges less maintenance expenses (expense margin). The principal assumptions for
determining the amount of EGP are persistency, mortality, expenses, investment returns, including capital gains and losses on assets supporting contract liabilities, interest crediting rates to
contractholders, and the effects of any hedges, and these assumptions are reasonably likely to have the greatest impact on the amount of DAC amortization. Changes in these assumptions can be
offsetting and we are unable to reasonably predict their future movements or offsetting impacts over time.   

Each
reporting period, DAC amortization is recognized in proportion to AGP for that period adjusted for interest on the prior period DAC balance. This amortization process includes an
assessment of AGP compared to EGP, the actual amount of business remaining in force and realized capital gains and losses on investments supporting the product liability. The impact of realized
capital gains and losses on amortization of DAC depends upon which product liability is supported by the assets that give rise to the gain or loss. If the AGP is greater than EGP in the period, but
the total EGP is unchanged, the amount of DAC amortization will generally increase, resulting in a current period decrease to earnings. The opposite result generally occurs when the AGP is less than
the EGP in the period, but the total EGP is unchanged. However, when DAC amortization or a component of gross profits for
a quarterly period is potentially negative (which would result in an increase of the DAC balance) as a result of negative AGP, the specific facts and circumstances surrounding the potential negative
amortization are considered to determine whether it is appropriate for recognition in the consolidated financial statements. Negative amortization is only recorded when the increased DAC balance is
determined to be recoverable based on facts and circumstances. Negative amortization was not recorded for certain   

  36  

Table of Contents   

  fixed
annuities during 2012 and 2011 periods in which capital losses were realized on their related investment portfolio. For products whose supporting investments are exposed to capital losses in
excess of our expectations which may cause periodic AGP to become temporarily negative, EGP and AGP utilized in DAC amortization may be modified to exclude the excess capital losses.   

         Annually,
we review and update all assumptions underlying the projections of EGP, including persistency, mortality, expenses, investment returns, comprising investment income and
realized capital gains and losses, interest crediting rates and the effect of any hedges. At each reporting period, we assess whether any revisions to assumptions used to determine DAC amortization
are required. These reviews and updates may result in amortization acceleration or deceleration, which are commonly referred to as "DAC unlocking". If the update of assumptions causes total EGP to
increase, the rate of DAC amortization will generally decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings. A decrease to earnings generally occurs when the assumption update causes the total
EGP to decrease.   

The
following table provides the effect on DAC amortization of changes in assumptions relating to the gross profit components of investment margin, benefit margin and expense margin
during the years ended December 31.   

In
2013, DAC amortization deceleration for changes in the investment margin component of EGP primarily related to fixed annuities and interest-sensitive life insurance and was due to
increased projected investment margins. The acceleration related to benefit margin was primarily due to interest-sensitive life insurance and was due to an increase in projected mortality. The
acceleration related to expense margin related to interest-sensitive life insurance and was due to an increase in projected expenses. In 2012, DAC amortization acceleration for changes in the
investment margin component of EGP primarily related to fixed annuities and was due to lower projected investment returns. The acceleration related to benefit margin was primarily due to increased
projected mortality on variable life insurance, partially offset by increased projected persistency on interest-sensitive life insurance.
The deceleration related to expense margin related to interest-sensitive life insurance and fixed annuities and was due to a decrease in projected expenses. In 2011, DAC amortization deceleration
related to changes in the investment margin component of EGP primarily related to equity-indexed annuities and was due to an increase in projected investment margins. The deceleration related to
benefit margin was primarily due to increased projected persistency on interest-sensitive life insurance. The acceleration related to expense margin primarily related to interest-sensitive life
insurance and was due to an increase in projected expenses.   

         The
following table displays the sensitivity of reasonably likely changes in assumptions included in the gross profit components of investment margin or benefit margin to amortization of
the DAC balance as of December 31, 2013.   

($ in millions)    
     
   Increase/(reduction) in DAC    

Increase in future investment margins of 25 basis points  
     
  $  
  77  

Decrease in future investment margins of 25 basis points  
     
  $  
  (86  
  )  

Decrease in future life mortality by 1%  
     
   $  
   
17  

Increase in future life mortality by 1%  
     
  $  
  (18  
  )  

Any
potential changes in assumptions discussed above are measured without consideration of correlation among assumptions. Therefore, it would be inappropriate to add them together in an
attempt to estimate overall variability in amortization.   

         For
additional detail related to DAC, see the Allstate Financial Segment section of this document.   

Reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense estimation       Reserves are established to provide for the estimated costs of
paying
claims and claims expenses under insurance policies we have issued. Property-Liability underwriting results are significantly influenced by estimates of property-liability insurance claims and claims
expense reserves. These reserves are an estimate of amounts necessary to settle all outstanding claims, including claims that have been incurred but not reported ("IBNR"), as of the financial
statement date.   

  37  

Table of Contents   

           Characteristics of reserves       Reserves are established independently of business segment management for each business segment and line of
business
based on estimates of the ultimate cost to settle claims, less losses that have been paid. The significant lines of business are auto, homeowners, and other personal lines for Allstate Protection, and
asbestos, environmental, and other discontinued lines for Discontinued Lines and Coverages. Allstate Protection's claims are typically reported promptly with relatively little reporting lag between
the date of occurrence and the date the loss is reported. Auto and homeowners liability losses generally take an average of about two years to settle, while auto physical damage, homeowners property
and other personal lines have an average settlement time of less than one year. Discontinued Lines and Coverages involve long-tail losses, such as those related to asbestos and environmental claims,
which often involve substantial reporting lags and extended times to settle.   

         Reserves
are the difference between the estimated ultimate cost of losses incurred and the amount of paid losses as of the reporting date. Reserves are estimated for both reported and
unreported claims, and include estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling all incurred claims. We update most of our reserve estimates quarterly and as new information becomes
available or as events emerge that may affect the resolution of unsettled claims. Changes in prior year reserve estimates (reserve reestimates), which may be material, are determined by comparing
updated estimates of ultimate losses to prior estimates, and the differences are recorded as property-liability insurance claims and claims expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in the
period such changes are determined. Estimating the ultimate cost of claims and claims expenses is an inherently uncertain and complex process involving a high degree of judgment and is subject to the
evaluation of numerous variables.   

          The actuarial methods used to develop reserve estimates       Reserve estimates are derived by using several different actuarial estimation methods
that
are variations on one primary actuarial technique. The actuarial technique is known as a "chain ladder" estimation process in which historical loss patterns are applied to actual paid losses and
reported losses (paid losses plus individual case reserves established by claim adjusters) for an accident year or a report year to create an estimate of how losses are likely to develop over time. An
accident year refers to classifying claims based on the year in which the claims occurred. A report year refers to classifying claims based on the year in which the claims are reported. Both
classifications are used to prepare estimates of required reserves for payments to be made in the future. The key assumptions affecting our reserve estimates comprise data elements including claim
counts, paid losses, case reserves, and development factors calculated with this data.   

         In
the chain ladder estimation technique, a ratio (development factor) is calculated which compares current period results to results in the prior period for each accident year. A
three-year or two-year average development factor, based on historical results, is usually multiplied by the current period experience to estimate the development of losses of each accident year into
the next time period. The development factors for the future time periods for each accident year are compounded over the remaining future periods to calculate an estimate of ultimate losses for each
accident year. The implicit assumption of this technique is that an average of historical development factors is predictive of future loss development, as the significant size of our experience
database achieves a high degree of statistical credibility in actuarial projections of this type. The effects of inflation are implicitly considered in the reserving process, the implicit assumption
being that a multi-year average development factor includes an
adequate provision. Occasionally, unusual aberrations in loss patterns are caused by external and internal factors such as changes in claim reporting, settlement patterns, unusually large losses,
process changes, legal or regulatory changes, and other influences. In these instances, analyses of alternate development factor selections are performed to evaluate the effect of these factors and
actuarial judgment is applied to make appropriate development factor assumptions needed to develop a best estimate of ultimate losses.   

           How reserve estimates are established and updated       Reserve estimates are developed at a very detailed level, and the results of these numerous
micro-level best estimates are aggregated to form a consolidated reserve estimate. For example, over one thousand actuarial estimates of the types described above are prepared each quarter to
estimate losses for each line of insurance, major components of losses (such as coverages and perils), major states or groups of states and for reported losses and IBNR. The actuarial methods
described above are used to analyze the settlement patterns of claims by determining the development factors for specific data elements that are necessary components of a reserve estimation process.
Development factors are calculated quarterly and periodically throughout the year for data elements such as claim counts reported and settled, paid losses, and paid losses combined with case reserves.
The calculation of development factors from changes in these data elements also impacts claim severity trends, which is a common industry reference used to explain changes in reserve estimates. The
historical development patterns for these data elements are used as the assumptions to calculate reserve estimates.   

  38  

Table of Contents    

         Often, several different estimates are prepared for each detailed component, incorporating alternative analyses of changing claim settlement patterns and other
influences on losses, from which we select our best estimate for each component, occasionally incorporating additional analyses and actuarial judgment, as described above. These micro-level estimates
are not based on a single set of assumptions. Actuarial judgments that may be applied to these components of certain micro-level estimates generally do not have a material impact on the consolidated
level of reserves. Moreover, this detailed micro-level process does not permit or result in a compilation of a company-wide roll up to generate a range of needed loss reserves that would be
meaningful. Based on our review of these estimates, our best estimate of required reserves for each state/line/coverage component is recorded for each accident year, and the required reserves for each
component are summed to create the reserve balance carried on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.   

         Reserves
are reestimated quarterly and periodically throughout the year, by combining historical results with current actual results to calculate new development factors. This process
incorporates the historic and latest actual trends, and other underlying changes in the data elements used to calculate reserve estimates. New development factors are likely to differ from previous
development factors used in prior reserve estimates because actual results (claims reported or settled, losses paid, or changes to case reserves) occur differently than the implied assumptions
contained in the previous development factor calculations. If claims reported, paid losses, or
case reserve changes are greater or less than the levels estimated by previous development factors, reserve reestimates increase or decrease. When actual development of these data elements is
different than the historical development pattern used in a prior period reserve estimate, a new reserve is determined. The difference between indicated reserves based on new reserve estimates and
recorded reserves (the previous estimate) is the amount of reserve reestimate and is recognized as an increase or decrease in property-liability insurance claims and claims expense in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations. Total Property-Liability reserve reestimates, after-tax, as a percent of net income available to common shareholders were favorable 3.5%, 18.7% and 27.7% in 2013, 2012 and
2011, respectively. The 3-year average of reserve reestimates as a percentage of total reserves was a favorable 2.2% for Property-Liability, a favorable 2.9% for Allstate Protection and an unfavorable
4.2% for Discontinued Lines and Coverages, each of these results being consistent within a reasonable actuarial tolerance for our respective businesses. A more detailed discussion of reserve
reestimates is presented in the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of this document.   

         The
following table shows net claims and claims expense reserves by segment and line of business as of December 31:   

Allstate Protection reserve estimates     

           Factors affecting reserve estimates       Reserve estimates are developed based on the processes and historical development trends described above.
These
estimates are considered in conjunction with known facts and interpretations of circumstances and factors including our experience with similar cases, actual claims paid, historical trends involving
claim payment patterns and pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management programs, product mix and contractual terms, changes in law and regulation, judicial decisions, and economic conditions.
When we experience changes of the type previously mentioned, we may need to apply actuarial judgment in the determination and selection of development factors considered more reflective of the new
trends, such as combining shorter or longer periods of historical results with current actual results to produce development factors based on two-year, three-year, or longer development periods to
reestimate our reserves. For example, if a legal change is expected to have a significant impact on the development of claim severity for a coverage which is part of a particular line of insurance in
a specific state,   

  39  

Table of Contents   

  actuarial
judgment is applied to determine appropriate development factors that will most accurately reflect the expected impact on that specific estimate. Another example would be when a change in
economic conditions is expected to affect the cost of repairs to damaged autos or property for a particular line, coverage, or state, actuarial judgment is applied to determine appropriate development
factors to use in the reserve estimate that will most accurately reflect the expected impacts on severity development.   

As
claims are reported, for certain liability claims of sufficient size and complexity, the field adjusting staff establishes case reserve estimates of ultimate cost, based on their
assessment of facts and circumstances related to each individual claim. For other claims which occur in large volumes and settle in a relatively short time frame, it is not practical or efficient to
set case reserves for each claim, and a statistical case reserve is set for these claims based on estimation techniques described above. In the normal course of business, we may also supplement our
claims processes by utilizing third party adjusters, appraisers, engineers, inspectors, and other professionals and information sources to assess and settle catastrophe and non-catastrophe related
claims.   

         Historically,
the case reserves set by the field adjusting staff have not proven to be an entirely accurate estimate of the ultimate cost of claims. To provide for this, a development
reserve is estimated using the processes described above, and allocated to pending claims as a supplement to case reserves. Typically, the case and supplemental development reserves comprise about 90%
of total reserves.   

         Another
major component of reserves is incurred but not reported ("IBNR"). Typically, IBNR comprises about 10% of total reserves.   

         Generally,
the initial reserves for a new accident year are established based on severity assumptions for different business segments, lines and coverages based on historical
relationships to relevant inflation indicators, and reserves for prior accident years are statistically determined using processes described above. Changes in auto current year claim severity are
generally influenced by inflation in the medical and auto repair sectors of the economy. We mitigate these effects through various loss management programs. Injury claims are affected largely by
medical cost inflation while physical damage claims are affected largely by auto repair cost inflation and used car prices. For auto physical damage coverages, we monitor our rate of increase in
average cost per claim against a weighted average of the Maintenance and Repair price index and the Parts and Equipment price index. We
believe our claim settlement initiatives, such as improvements to the claim review and settlement process, the use of special investigative units to detect fraud and handle suspect claims, litigation
management and defense strategies, as well as various other loss management initiatives underway, contribute to the mitigation of injury and physical damage severity trends.   

         Changes
in homeowners current year claim severity are generally influenced by inflation in the cost of building materials, the cost of construction and property repair services, the cost
of replacing home furnishings and other contents, the types of claims that qualify for coverage, deductibles and other economic and environmental factors. We employ various loss management programs to
mitigate the effect of these factors.   

         As
loss experience for the current year develops for each type of loss, it is monitored relative to initial assumptions until it is judged to have sufficient statistical credibility.
From that point in time and forward, reserves are reestimated using statistical actuarial processes to reflect the impact actual loss trends have on development factors incorporated into the actuarial
estimation processes. Statistical credibility is usually achieved by the end of the first calendar year; however, when trends for the current accident year exceed initial assumptions sooner, they are
usually determined to be credible, and reserves are increased accordingly.   

         The
very detailed processes for developing reserve estimates, and the lack of a need and existence of a common set of assumptions or development factors, limits aggregate reserve level
testing for variability of data elements. However, by applying standard actuarial methods to consolidated historic accident year loss data for major loss types, comprising auto injury losses, auto
physical damage losses and homeowner losses, we develop variability analyses consistent with the way we develop reserves by measuring the potential variability of development factors, as described in
the section titled "Potential Reserve Estimate Variability" below.   

           Causes of reserve estimate uncertainty       Since reserves are estimates of unpaid portions of claims and claims expenses that have occurred,
including
IBNR losses, the establishment of appropriate reserves, including reserves for catastrophe losses, requires regular reevaluation and refinement of estimates to determine our ultimate loss estimate.   

At
each reporting date, the highest degree of uncertainty in estimates of losses arises from claims remaining to be settled for the current accident year and the most recent preceding
accident year. The greatest degree of uncertainty exists in the current accident year because the current accident year contains the greatest proportion of losses that have not been reported or
settled but must be estimated as of the current reporting date. Most of these losses relate to   

  40  

Table of Contents   

  damaged
property such as automobiles and homes, and medical care for injuries from accidents. During the first year after the end of an accident year, a large portion of the total losses for that
accident year are settled. When accident year losses paid through the end of the first year following the initial accident year are incorporated into updated actuarial estimates, the trends inherent
in the settlement of claims emerge more clearly. Consequently, this is the point in time at which we tend to make our largest reestimates of losses for an accident year. After the
second year, the losses that we pay for an accident year typically relate to claims that are more difficult to settle, such as those involving serious injuries or litigation. Private passenger auto
insurance provides a good illustration of the uncertainty of future loss estimates: our typical annual percentage payout of reserves for an accident year is approximately 45% in the first year after
the end of the accident year, 20% in the second year, 15% in the third year, 10% in the fourth year, and the remaining 10% thereafter.   

           Reserves for catastrophe losses       Property-Liability claims and claims expense reserves also include reserves for catastrophe losses.
Catastrophe
losses are an inherent risk of the property-liability insurance industry that have contributed, and will continue to contribute, to potentially material year-to-year fluctuations in our results of
operations and financial position. We define a "catastrophe" as an event that produces pre-tax losses before reinsurance in excess of $1 million and involves multiple first party policyholders,
or an event that produces a number of claims in excess of a preset, per-event threshold of average claims in a specific area, occurring within a certain amount of time following the event.
Catastrophes are caused by various natural events including high winds, winter storms, tornadoes, hailstorms, wildfires, tropical storms, hurricanes, earthquakes and volcanoes. We are also exposed to
man-made catastrophic events, such as certain types of terrorism or industrial accidents. The nature and level of catastrophes in any period cannot be predicted.   

         The
estimation of claims and claims expense reserves for catastrophe losses also comprises estimates of losses from reported claims and IBNR, primarily for damage to property. In
general, our estimates for catastrophe reserves are based on claim adjuster inspections and the application of historical loss development factors as described above. However, depending on the nature
of the catastrophe, as noted above, the estimation process can be further complicated. For example, for hurricanes, complications could include the inability of insureds to promptly report losses,
limitations placed on claims adjusting staff affecting their ability to inspect losses, determining whether losses are covered by our homeowners policy (generally for damage caused by wind or wind
driven rain) or specifically excluded coverage caused by flood, estimating additional living expenses, and assessing the impact of demand surge, exposure to mold damage, and the effects of numerous
other considerations, including the timing of a catastrophe in relation to other events, such as at or near the end of a financial reporting period, which can affect the availability of information
needed to estimate reserves for that reporting period. In these situations, we may need to adapt our practices to accommodate these circumstances in order to determine a best estimate of our losses
from a catastrophe. As an example, in 2005 to complete an estimate for certain areas affected by Hurricane Katrina and not yet inspected by our claims adjusting staff, or where we believed our
historical loss development factors were not predictive, we relied on analysis of actual claim notices received compared to total PIF, as well as visual, governmental and third party information,
including aerial photos, area observations, and data on wind speed and flood depth to the extent available.   

           Potential reserve estimate variability       The aggregation of numerous micro-level estimates for each business segment, line of insurance, major
components of losses (such as coverages and perils), and major states or groups of states for reported losses and IBNR forms the reserve liability recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial
Position. Because of this detailed approach to developing our reserve estimates, there is not a single set of assumptions that determine our reserve estimates at the consolidated level. Given the
numerous micro-level estimates for reported losses and IBNR, management does not believe the processes that we follow will produce a statistically credible or reliable actuarial reserve range that
would be meaningful. Reserve estimates, by their very nature, are very complex to determine and subject to significant judgment, and do not represent an exact determination for each outstanding claim.
Accordingly, as actual claims, and/or paid losses, and/or case reserve results emerge, our estimate of the ultimate cost to settle will be different than previously estimated.   

To
develop a statistical indication of potential reserve variability within reasonably likely possible outcomes, an actuarial technique (stochastic modeling) is applied to the
countrywide consolidated data elements for paid losses
and paid losses combined with case reserves separately for injury losses, auto physical damage losses, and homeowners losses excluding catastrophe losses. Based on the combined historical variability
of the development factors calculated for these data elements, an estimate of the standard error or standard deviation around these reserve estimates is calculated within each accident year for the
last twenty years for each type of loss. The variability of these reserve estimates within one standard deviation of the mean (a measure of frequency of dispersion often viewed to be an acceptable
level of accuracy) is believed by management to represent a reasonable and statistically probable measure of potential variability. Based on our products and coverages, historical experience, the
statistical credibility of our   

  41  

Table of Contents   

  extensive
data and stochastic modeling of actuarial chain ladder methodologies used to develop reserve estimates, we estimate that the potential variability of our Allstate Protection reserves,
excluding reserves for catastrophe losses, within a reasonable probability of other possible outcomes, may be approximately plus or minus 4%, or plus or minus $500 million in net income
available to common shareholders. A lower level of variability exists for auto injury losses, which comprise approximately 80% of reserves, due to their relatively stable development patterns over a
longer duration of time required to settle claims. Other types of losses, such as auto physical damage, homeowners losses and other personal lines losses, which comprise about 20% of reserves, tend to
have greater variability but are settled in a much shorter period of time. Although this evaluation reflects most reasonably likely outcomes, it is possible the final outcome may fall below or above
these amounts. Historical variability of reserve estimates is reported in the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of this document.   

Reserves for Michigan and New Jersey unlimited personal injury protection       Property-Liability claims and claims expense reserves include
reserves for
Michigan unlimited personal injury protection ("PIP") which is a mandatory coverage that provides unlimited personal injury protection to covered insureds involved in certain auto and motorcycle
accidents. The administration of this program is through a private, non-profit association created by the state of Michigan, the Michigan Catastrophic Claim Association ("MCCA"). Due to increasing
costs of providing healthcare related to serious injuries and advances in medical care extending the duration of treatment, the estimation process and assumptions for this reserve balance have been
enhanced.   

         We
were able to substantiate an increase in MCCA covered losses by reviewing MCCA actuarial reports, other MCCA members' reports and our PIP loss trends which have increased in severity.
To address this exposure, we refined our estimation techniques in 2011 through 2013, including relying more on paid loss development methods and increasing our view of future claim development and
longevity of claimants, as a result of conducting comprehensive claim file reviews to develop case reserve estimates of specific claims and other estimation refinements.   

         We
provide similar PIP coverage in New Jersey for auto policies issued or renewed in New Jersey prior to 1991 that is administered by the New Jersey Unsatisfied Claim and Judgment Fund
("NJUCJF"). In 2013, we adopted similar actuarial estimating techniques as for the MCCA exposures to estimate loss reserves for unlimited PIP coverage for policies covered by the NJUCJF. The NJUCJF
was merged into the New Jersey Property Liability Guaranty Association who collects the assessments.   

         Reserve
estimates by their nature are very complex to determine and subject to significant judgments, and do not represent an exact determination for each outstanding claim. As actual
claims, paid losses and/or case reserve results emerge, our estimate of the ultimate cost to settle may be different than previously estimated.   

           Adequacy of reserve estimates       We believe our net claims and claims expense reserves are appropriately established based on available
methodology,
facts, technology, laws and regulations. We calculate and record a single best reserve estimate, in conformance with generally accepted actuarial standards, for each line of insurance, its components
(coverages and perils) and state, for reported losses and for IBNR losses, and as a result we believe that no other estimate is better than our recorded amount. Due to the uncertainties involved, the
ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded amounts, which are based on our best estimates.   

    Discontinued Lines and Coverages reserve estimates     

Characteristics of Discontinued Lines exposure       Our exposure to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims arises principally
from
assumed reinsurance coverage written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s, including reinsurance on primary insurance written on large U.S. companies, and from direct excess insurance written from
1972 through 1985, including substantial excess general liability coverages on large U.S. companies. Additional exposure stems from direct primary commercial insurance written during the 1960s through
the mid-1980s. Asbestos claims relate primarily to bodily injuries asserted by people who were exposed to asbestos or products containing asbestos. Environmental claims relate primarily to pollution
and related clean-up costs. Other discontinued lines exposures primarily relate to general liability and product liability mass tort claims, such as those for medical devices and other products,
workers' compensation claims and claims for various other coverage exposures other than asbestos and environmental.   

         In
1986, the general liability policy form used by us and others in the property-liability industry was amended to introduce an "absolute pollution exclusion," which excluded coverage
for environmental damage claims, and to add an asbestos exclusion. Most general liability policies issued prior to 1987 contain annual aggregate limits for product liability coverage. General
liability policies issued in 1987 and thereafter contain annual aggregate limits for product liability coverage and annual aggregate limits for all coverages. Our experience to date is that these
policy form changes have limited the extent of our exposure to environmental and asbestos claim risks.   

  42  

Table of Contents   

         Our
exposure to liability for asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines losses manifests differently depending on whether it arises from assumed reinsurance coverage, direct
excess insurance or direct primary
commercial insurance. The direct insurance coverage we provided that covered asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines was substantially "excess" in nature.   

         Direct
excess insurance and reinsurance involve coverage written by us for specific layers of protection above retentions and other insurance plans. The nature of excess coverage and
reinsurance provided to other insurers limits our exposure to loss to specific layers of protection in excess of policyholder retention on primary insurance plans. Our exposure is further limited by
the significant reinsurance that we had purchased on our direct excess business.   

Our
assumed reinsurance business involved writing generally small participations in other insurers' reinsurance programs. The reinsured losses in which we participate may be a proportion
of all eligible losses or eligible losses in excess of defined retentions. The majority of our assumed reinsurance exposure, approximately 85%, is for excess of loss coverage, while the remaining 15%
is for pro-rata coverage.   

         Our
direct primary commercial insurance business did not include coverage to large asbestos manufacturers. This business comprises a cross section of policyholders engaged in many
diverse business sectors located throughout the country.   

          How reserve estimates are established and updated       We conduct an annual review in the third quarter to evaluate and establish asbestos,
environmental
and other discontinued lines reserves. Changes to reserves are recorded in the reporting period in which they are determined. Using established industry and actuarial best practices and assuming no
change in the regulatory or economic environment, this detailed and comprehensive methodology determines asbestos reserves based on assessments of the characteristics of exposure (i.e. claim
activity, potential liability, jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure) presented by individual policyholders, and determines environmental reserves based on assessments of the
characteristics of exposure (i.e. environmental damages, respective shares of liability of potentially responsible parties, appropriateness and cost of remediation) to pollution and related
clean-up costs. The number and cost of these claims is affected by intense advertising by trial lawyers seeking asbestos plaintiffs, and entities with asbestos exposure seeking bankruptcy protection
as a result of asbestos liabilities, initially causing a delay in the reporting of claims, often followed by an acceleration and an increase in claims and claims expenses as settlements occur.   

         After
evaluating our insureds' probable liabilities for asbestos and/or environmental claims, we evaluate our insureds' coverage programs for such claims. We consider our insureds' total
available insurance coverage, including the coverage we issued. We also consider relevant judicial interpretations of policy language and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any.   

         Evaluation
of both the insureds' estimated liabilities and our exposure to the insureds depends heavily on an analysis of the relevant legal issues and litigation environment. This
analysis is conducted by our specialized claims adjusting staff and legal counsel. Based on these evaluations, case reserves are established by claims adjusting staff and actuarial analysis is
employed to develop an IBNR reserve, which includes estimated potential reserve development and claims that have occurred but have not been reported. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, IBNR was
55.4% and 57.8%, respectively, of combined net asbestos and environmental reserves.   

For
both asbestos and environmental reserves, we also evaluate our historical direct net loss and expense paid and incurred experience to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations or
characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid and incurred activity.   

           Other Discontinued Lines and Coverages       The following table shows reserves for other discontinued lines which provide for remaining loss and
loss
expense liabilities related to business no longer written by us, other than asbestos and environmental, as of December 31.   

Other
mass torts describes direct excess and reinsurance general liability coverage provided for cumulative injury losses other than asbestos and environmental. Workers' compensation and
commercial and other include run-off from discontinued direct primary, direct excess and reinsurance commercial insurance operations of various coverage   

  43  

Table of Contents   

  exposures
other than asbestos and environmental. Reserves are based on considerations similar to those described above, as they relate to the characteristics of specific individual coverage exposures.   

           Potential reserve estimate variability       Establishing Discontinued Lines and Coverages net loss reserves for asbestos, environmental and other
discontinued lines claims is subject to uncertainties that are much greater than those presented by other types of claims. Among the complications are lack of historical data, long reporting delays,
uncertainty as to the number and identity of insureds with potential exposure and unresolved legal issues regarding policy coverage; unresolved legal issues regarding the determination, availability
and timing of exhaustion of policy limits; plaintiffs' evolving and expanding theories of liability; availability and collectability of recoveries from reinsurance; retrospectively determined premiums
and other contractual agreements; estimates of the extent and timing of any contractual liability; the impact of bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos
defendants; and other uncertainties. There are also complex legal issues concerning the interpretation of various insurance policy provisions and whether those losses are covered, or were ever
intended to be covered, and could be recoverable through retrospectively determined premium, reinsurance or other contractual agreements. Courts have reached different and sometimes inconsistent
conclusions as to when losses are deemed to have occurred and which policies provide coverage; what types of losses are covered; whether there is an insurer obligation to defend; how policy limits are
determined; how policy exclusions and conditions are applied and interpreted; and whether clean-up costs represent insured property damage. Our reserves for asbestos and environmental exposures could
be affected by tort reform, class action litigation, and other potential legislation and judicial decisions. Environmental exposures could also be affected by a change in the existing federal
Superfund law and similar state statutes. There can be no assurance that any reform legislation will be enacted or that any such legislation will provide for a fair, effective and cost-efficient
system for settlement of asbestos or environmental claims. We believe these issues are not likely to be resolved in the near future, and the ultimate costs may vary materially from the amounts
currently recorded resulting in material changes in loss reserves. Historical variability of reserve estimates is demonstrated in the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of
this document.   

           Adequacy of reserve estimates       Management believes its net loss reserves for environmental, asbestos and other discontinued lines exposures
are
appropriately established based on available facts, technology, laws, regulations, and assessments of other pertinent factors and characteristics of exposure (i.e. claim activity, potential
liability, jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure) presented by individual policyholders, assuming no change in the legal, legislative or economic environment. Due to the uncertainties
and factors described above, management believes it is not practicable to develop a meaningful range for any such additional net loss reserves that may be required.   

           Further discussion of reserve estimates       For further discussion of these estimates and quantification of the impact of reserve estimates,
reserve
reestimates and assumptions, see Notes 9 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements and the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of this document.   

           Reserve for life-contingent contract benefits estimation       Due to the long term nature of traditional life insurance, life-contingent immediate
annuities and voluntary accident and health insurance products, benefits are payable over many years; accordingly, the reserves are calculated as the present value of future expected benefits to be
paid, reduced by the present value of future expected net premiums. Long-term actuarial assumptions of future investment yields, mortality, morbidity, policy terminations and expenses are used when
establishing the reserve for life-contingent contract benefits payable under these insurance policies. These assumptions, which for traditional life insurance are applied using the net level premium
method, include provisions for adverse deviation and generally vary by characteristics such as type of coverage, year of issue and policy duration. Future investment yield assumptions are determined
based upon prevailing investment yields as well as estimated reinvestment yields. Mortality, morbidity and policy termination assumptions are based on our experience and industry experience. Expense
assumptions include the estimated effects of inflation and expenses to be incurred beyond the premium-paying period. These assumptions are established at the time the policy is issued, are consistent
with assumptions for determining DAC amortization for these policies, and are generally not changed during the policy coverage period. However, if actual experience emerges in a manner that is
significantly adverse relative to the original assumptions, adjustments to DAC or reserves may be required resulting in a charge to earnings which could have a material effect on our operating results
and financial condition. We periodically review the adequacy of reserves and recoverability of DAC for these policies on an aggregate basis using actual experience. In the event actual experience is
significantly adverse compared to the original assumptions and a premium deficiency is determined to exist, any remaining unamortized DAC balance must be expensed to the extent not recoverable and the
establishment of a premium deficiency reserve may be required. In 2013, 2012 and 2011, our reviews concluded that no premium deficiency adjustments were necessary, primarily due to projected profit
from traditional life insurance more than offsetting the projected losses in immediate annuities with life contingencies. We will continue to monitor the experience of our traditional life insurance
and immediate annuities. We   

  44  

Table of Contents   

  anticipate
that mortality, investment and reinvestment yields, and policy terminations are the factors that would be most likely to require premium deficiency adjustments to these reserves or related
DAC.   

         For
further detail on the reserve for life-contingent contract benefits, see Note 10 of the consolidated financial statements.   

PROPERTY-LIABILITY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS     

Property-Liability net income available to common shareholders was $2.75 billion in 2013 compared to
$1.97 billion in 2012.          Property-Liability premiums written totaled $28.16 billion in 2013, an increase of 4.2% from $27.03 billion
in 2012.          The Property-Liability loss ratio was 64.9 in 2013 compared to 69.1 in 2012.          Catastrophe losses were
$1.25 billion in 2013 compared to $2.35 billion in 2012.          Property-Liability prior year reserve reestimates totaled $121 million favorable in 2013 compared to
$665 million favorable in 2012.          Property-Liability underwriting income was $2.22 billion in 2013 compared to $1.20 billion in 2012.
Underwriting income, a measure not based on GAAP, is defined below.          Property-Liability investments were $39.64 billion as of December 31, 2013, an increase of 3.7% from
$38.22 billion as of December 31, 2012. Net investment income was $1.38 billion in 2013, an increase of 3.7% from $1.33 billion in 2012.          Net realized capital gains
were $519 million in 2013 compared to $335 million in 2012.    

PROPERTY-LIABILITY OPERATIONS     

            Overview    Our Property-Liability operations consist of two reporting segments: Allstate
Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages. Allstate Protection comprises three brands where we accept underwriting risk: Allstate, Encompass and Esurance. Allstate Protection is principally
engaged in the sale of personal property and casualty insurance, primarily private passenger auto and homeowners insurance, to individuals in the United States and Canada. Discontinued Lines and
Coverages includes results from insurance coverage that we no longer write and results for certain commercial and other businesses in run-off. These segments are consistent with the groupings of
financial information that management uses to evaluate performance and to determine the allocation of resources.   

         Underwriting
income, a measure that is not based on GAAP and is reconciled to net income available to common shareholders below, is calculated as premiums earned, less claims and claims
expense ("losses"), amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges, as determined using GAAP. We use this measure in our evaluation of results of operations to
analyze the profitability of the Property-Liability insurance operations separately from investment results. It is also an integral component of incentive
compensation. It is useful for investors to evaluate the components of income separately and in the aggregate when reviewing performance. Net income available to common shareholders is the GAAP
measure most directly comparable to underwriting income. Underwriting income should not be considered as a substitute for net income available to common shareholders and does not reflect the overall
profitability of the business.   

         The
table below includes GAAP operating ratios we use to measure our profitability. We believe that they enhance an investor's understanding of our profitability. They are calculated as
follows:  

Claims and claims expense ("loss") ratio   the ratio of claims and claims expense to premiums earned.
Loss ratios include the impact of catastrophe losses.          Expense ratio   the ratio of amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses, and restructuring and
related charges to premiums earned.          Combined ratio   the ratio of claims and claims expense, amortization of DAC, operating costs and
expenses, and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned. The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio. The difference between 100% and the combined ratio represents
underwriting income as a percentage of premiums earned, or underwriting margin.    

         We
have also calculated the following impacts of specific items on the GAAP operating ratios because of the volatility of these items between fiscal periods.   

Effect of catastrophe losses on combined ratio   the percentage of catastrophe losses included in
claims and claims expense to premiums earned. This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses.          Effect of prior year reserve reestimates on combined
ratio   the percentage of prior year reserve
reestimates included in claims and claims expense to premiums earned. This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses.    
  45  

Table of Contents   

Effect of business combination expenses and the amortization of purchased intangible assets on combined and expense
ratio   the percentage of business combination expenses and the amortization of purchased intangible assets to premiums earned.          Effect of restructuring and related charges on
combined ratio   the percentage of restructuring and
related charges to premiums earned.          Effect of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on combined ratio   the ratio of claims and claims expense
and operating costs and expenses in the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment to Property-Liability premiums earned. The sum of the effect of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on the combined ratio
and the Allstate Protection combined ratio is equal to the Property-Liability combined ratio.    

Summarized
financial data, a reconciliation of underwriting income to net income available to common shareholders, and GAAP operating ratios for our Property-Liability operations are
presented in the following table.   

(1)     Prior
year reserve reestimates included in catastrophe losses totaled $88 million favorable in 2013, $410 million favorable in
2012 and $130 million favorable in 2011.    

46  

Table of Contents    

    ALLSTATE PROTECTION SEGMENT     

           Overview and strategy       The Allstate Protection segment primarily sells private passenger auto and homeowners insurance to individuals through
Allstate
exclusive agencies supported by contact centers and the internet under the Allstate brand. We sell auto and homeowners insurance through independent agencies under both the Allstate brand and the
Encompass brand. We also sell auto insurance direct to consumers online, through contact centers and through select agents, including Answer Financial, under the Esurance brand.   

         Our
strategy is to position our products and distribution systems to meet the changing needs of the customer in managing the risks they face. This includes customers who want advice and
assistance and those who are self-directed. In addition, there are customers who are brand-sensitive and those who are brand-neutral. Our strategy is to serve all four of these consumer segments with
unique products and in unique and innovative ways while leveraging our claims, pricing and operational capabilities. When we do not offer a product our customers need, we may make available
non-proprietary products that meet their needs.   

         Allstate
is executing a multi-year effort to focus on the customer experience. We utilize specific customer value propositions for each brand to improve our competitive position and
performance. Over time, delivering on these customer value propositions may include investments in resources and require significant changes to our products, capabilities and processes.   

         Our
strategy for the Allstate brand focuses on customers who prefer local personal advice and service and are brand-sensitive. Our customer-focused strategy for the Allstate brand aligns
targeted marketing, product innovation, distribution effectiveness, and pricing toward acquiring and retaining an increased share of our target customers, which generally refers to consumers who want
to purchase multiple products from one insurance provider including auto, homeowners and financial products, who have better retention and potentially present more favorable prospects for
profitability over the course of their relationships with us.   

         The
Allstate brand utilizes marketing delivered to target customers to promote our strategic priorities, with messaging that continues to communicate ease of doing business with Allstate
and Allstate agencies, good value, as well as the importance of having proper coverage by highlighting our comprehensive product and coverage options.   

         The
Allstate brand differentiates itself from competitors by offering a comprehensive range of innovative product options and features through a network of agencies that provide local
advice and service. Product features include Allstate Your Choice Auto  with options such as accident forgiveness, safe driving deductible rewards and a safe driving bonus, and Allstate
House and Home  that provides options of coverage for roof damage including graduated coverage and pricing based on roof type and age. In addition, we offer a Claim Satisfaction
Guarantee sm  that promises a return of premium to Allstate brand auto insurance customers dissatisfied with their claims experience. Our Drivewise  program enables
participating customers to be eligible for discounts and bonuses based on driving performance and is currently available in 30 states. We will continue to focus on developing and introducing products
and services that benefit today's consumers and further differentiate Allstate and enhance the customer experience. We will deepen customer relationships through value-added customer interactions and
expanding our presence in households with multiple products by providing financial protection for customer needs. In certain areas with higher risk of catastrophes, we offer a homeowners product from
North Light Specialty Insurance Company ("North Light"), our excess and surplus lines carrier. When an Allstate product is not available, we may make available non-proprietary products for customers
through brokering arrangements. For example, in hurricane exposed areas, Allstate agencies sell non-proprietary property insurance products to customers who prefer to use a single agent for all their
insurance needs.   

         We
are undergoing a focused effort to enhance our capabilities by implementing uniform processes and standards to elevate the level and consistency of our customer experience. We
continue to enhance technology to improve customer service, facilitate the introduction of new products and services and reduce infrastructure costs related to supporting agencies and handling claims.
These actions and others are designed to optimize the effectiveness of our distribution and service channels by increasing the productivity of the Allstate brand's exclusive agencies. Beginning
February 2013, Allstate brand customers are immediately assigned an Allstate agency relationship at the time of purchase. The majority of Allstate brand customers who purchased their policies directly
through contact centers and the internet prior to February 2013 were assigned an Allstate exclusive agency relationship in the second quarter of 2013.   

         Other
personal lines sold under the Allstate brand include renter, condominium, landlord, boat, umbrella and manufactured home insurance policies. Commercial lines include commercial
products for small business owners. Other business lines include Allstate Roadside Services that provides roadside assistance products, Allstate Dealer   

  47  

Table of Contents   

  Services
that provides service contracts and other products sold in conjunction with auto lending and vehicle sales transactions, and Ivantage insurance agency.   

Our
strategy for the Encompass brand centers around a highly differentiated offering which simplifies the insurance experience by packaging a product with broader coverage and higher
limits into a single annual household ("Package") policy with one premium, one bill, one policy deductible and one renewal date. It appeals to consumers with broad personal lines coverage needs who
prefer an independent agent. As part of its Package policy strategy, Encompass is focused on engaging independent agencies through superior claims service, ease of doing business initiatives, product
innovation, greater compensation alignment, and by de-emphasizing mono-line auto and homeowners products.   

         Our
strategy for the Esurance brand focuses on self-directed and web-savvy consumers. To best serve these customers, Esurance develops its technology, website and mobile capabilities to
continuously improve its hassle-free purchase and claims experience and offer innovative product options and features. Esurance's DriveSense TM  program enables participating customers to
be eligible for discounts based on driving performance as measured by a device installed temporarily in the vehicle. Esurance's DriveSafe TM  program is designed to help parents coach
teens on safe driving by providing customizable driving statistics and the ability to limit cell phone use while the car is in motion, all controlled by a device installed in the vehicle. Esurance
continues to develop additional products to complement its auto line of business and provide a more comprehensive solution to its customers. Esurance expanded its renter product from 5 to 16 states,
expanded auto from 35 to 41 states, introduced its motorcycle product in 6 states and introduced its homeowners product in 3 states during 2013. Esurance continues to focus on increasing its preferred
driver mix, while raising advertising investment and marketing effectiveness to support growth.   

         Answer
Financial, an independent personal lines insurance agency, serves self-directed, brand-neutral consumers who want a choice between insurance carriers and offers comparison quotes
for auto and homeowners insurance from approximately 25 insurance companies through its website and over the phone. It receives fee income for this service.   

         Our
pricing and underwriting strategies and decisions for all of our brands are primarily designed to achieve appropriate returns along with enhancing our competitive position. Our
sophisticated pricing uses a number of risk evaluation factors including insurance scoring, to the extent permissible by applicable law, based on information that is obtained from credit reports, and
other factors. A pricing strategy involves marketplace pricing and underwriting decisions that are based on these risk evaluation models and an evaluation of competitors. Our sophisticated pricing
methodology allows us to attract and retain multiple risk segments. A combination of underwriting information, pricing and discounts are used to achieve a more competitive position.   

         We
continue to manage our property catastrophe exposure with the goal of providing shareholders an acceptable return on the risks assumed in our property business and to reduce the
variability of our earnings. Our property business includes personal homeowners, commercial property and other property insurance lines. As of December 31, 2013, we have less than a 1%
likelihood of exceeding average annual aggregate catastrophe losses by $2 billion, net of reinsurance, from hurricanes and earthquakes, based on modeled assumptions and applications currently
available. The use of different assumptions and updates to industry models, and updates to our risk transfer program, could materially change the projected loss. Our growth strategies include areas
previously restricted where we believe we can earn an appropriate return for the risk and as a result our exposure may increase, but remain lower than $2 billion as noted above. In addition, we
have exposure to severe weather events which impact catastrophe losses.   

         Property
catastrophe exposure management includes purchasing reinsurance to provide coverage for known exposure to hurricanes, earthquakes, wildfires, fires following earthquakes and
other catastrophes. We are also working for changes in the regulatory environment, including recognizing the need for better catastrophe preparedness, improving appropriate risk-based pricing and
promoting the creation of government sponsored, privately funded solutions for mega-catastrophes that will make insurance more available and affordable.   

         Pricing
of property products is typically intended to establish returns that we deem acceptable over a long-term period. Losses, including losses from catastrophic events and
weather-related losses (such as wind, hail, lightning and freeze losses not meeting our criteria to be declared a catastrophe), are accrued on an occurrence basis within the policy period. Therefore,
in any reporting period, loss experience from catastrophic events and weather-related losses may contribute to negative or positive underwriting performance relative to the expectations we
incorporated into the products' pricing. We pursue rate increases where indicated, taking into consideration potential customer disruption, the impact on our ability to market our auto lines,
regulatory limitations, our competitive position and profitability, using a methodology that appropriately addresses the changing costs of losses from catastrophes such as severe weather and the net
cost of reinsurance.   

  48  

Table of Contents   

    Allstate Protection outlook     

Allstate Protection will continue to focus on its strategy of offering differentiated products and services to our
customers while maintaining pricing discipline.          We expect that volatility in the level of catastrophes we experience will contribute to variation in our underwriting
results; however, this volatility will be mitigated due to our catastrophe management actions, including the purchase of reinsurance.          We will continue to improve the efficiencies of our
operations and cost structure.          We will invest in building long-term growth platforms.    

Premiums written    is the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal period. Premiums are considered earned and are
included in the financial results on a pro-rata basis over the policy period. The portion of premiums written applicable to the unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned premiums on our
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.   

         The
following table shows the unearned premium balance as of December 31 and the timeframe in which we expect to recognize these premiums as earned.   

(1)     Other
personal lines include renter, condominium, landlord and other personal lines.       (2)     Other
business lines include Allstate Roadside Services, Allstate Dealer Services and other business lines.    

49  

Table of Contents   

         A
reconciliation of premiums written to premiums earned is shown in the following table.   

Premiums
written by brand are shown in the following table.   

(1)     Represents
period from October 7, 2011 to December 31, 2011.    

Premiums
earned by brand are shown in the following table.   

Premium
measures and statistics that are used to analyze the business are calculated and described below.   

PIF:    Policy counts are based on items rather than customers. A multi-car customer would generate multiple
item (policy) counts, even if all cars were insured under one policy.          Average premium-gross written ("average premium"):    Gross premiums written divided by issued
item count. Gross
premiums written include the impacts from discounts, surcharges and ceded reinsurance premiums and exclude the impacts from mid-term premium adjustments and premium refund accruals. Average premiums
represent the appropriate policy term for each line. Allstate and Esurance brands are 6 months for auto and 12 months for homeowners. Encompass brand is 12 months for auto and
homeowners.          Renewal ratio:    Renewal policies issued during the period, based on contract effective dates, divided by the
total policies issued 6 months prior for auto (12 months prior for Encompass brand) or 12 months prior for homeowners.          New issued applications:    Item
counts of automobiles or homeowners insurance applications for insurance
policies that were issued during the period, regardless of whether the customer was previously insured by another Allstate Protection brand. Does not include automobiles that are added by existing
customers.    
 
  50  

Table of Contents   

            Auto premiums written    totaled $18.70 billion in 2013, a 3.7% increase from $18.04 billion in 2012, following a 4.5% increase
in 2012 from $17.26 billion in 2011.   

(1)     Policy
term is six months for Allstate and Esurance brands and twelve months for Encompass brand.       (2)     Rate
changes that are indicated based on loss trend analysis to achieve a targeted return will continue to be pursued. Rate changes do not
include rating plan enhancements, including the introduction of discounts and surcharges that result in no change in the overall rate level in the state. These rate changes do not reflect initial
rates filed for insurance subsidiaries initially writing business in a state. Rate changes for Allstate brand exclude Canada and specialty auto.       (3)     Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during the period as a percentage of total countrywide prior year-end
premiums written.       (4)     Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during the period as a percentage of its respective total prior year-end
premiums written in those states.       (5)     Based
on historical premiums written in those states, rate changes approved for auto totaled $379 million, $539 million and
$780 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.       (6)     2011
includes the impact of Florida rate increases averaging 18.6% and New York rate increases averaging 11.2% taken across multiple
companies.    

N/A reflects not available.   

         Allstate brand auto premiums written totaled $16.75 billion in 2013, a 2.2% increase from $16.40 billion in 2012. Factors impacting
premiums written were the following:  

1.5% increase in PIF as of December 31, 2013 compared to December 31, 2012.          12.5% increase in new issued applications to
2,749 thousand in 2013 from 2,443 thousand in 2012.          2.2% increase in average premium in 2013 compared to 2012.          0.7 point increase in the renewal ratio in 2013 compared to 2012.    

In
2013, the Ontario government gave the Financial Services Commission of Ontario the authority to implement an average reduction of premium rates by 15%. Regulator approval of the rate
filings remains pending and is not expected to be finalized until early 2014. The rate reductions are expected to be effective for new business in the
second half of 2014 and renewal contracts in late 2014. They are estimated to reduce premiums written by approximately $45 million and premiums earned by approximately $15 million in
2014.   

         Allstate
brand auto premiums written totaled $16.40 billion in 2012, a 0.5% decrease from $16.48 billion in 2011. Factors impacting premiums written were the
following:  

1.3% decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2012 compared to December 31, 2011 due to fewer new issued
applications and fewer policies available to renew.          3.6% decrease in new issued applications to 2,443 thousand in 2012 from 2,534 thousand in 2011.          1.3% increase in average premium in 2012 compared to 2011.          the renewal ratio in 2012 was comparable to 2011.    

Encompass
brand auto premiums written totaled $641 million in 2013, a 3.7% increase from $618 million in 2012. The increase was primarily due to a 5.9% increase in PIF as
of December 31, 2013 compared to December 31, 2012 and actions taken to enhance the Package policy. New issued applications increased 9.2% to 155 thousand in 2013 from
142 thousand in 2012. The renewal ratio increased 2.9 points in 2013 compared to 2012. Encompass discontinued writing new auto business in Florida in September 2012 and non-renewals began in
February 2013.   

         Encompass
brand auto premiums written totaled $618 million in 2012, a 2.1% increase from $605 million in 2011. The increase was primarily due to a 5.2% increase in PIF as
of December 31, 2012 compared to December 31, 2011 and actions taken to enhance the Package policy. New issued applications increased 25.7% to 142 thousand in 2012 from
113 thousand in 2011 primarily due to increases in efforts to improve agency engagement. The renewal ratio increased 6.3 points in 2012 compared to 2011 driven primarily by retaining more
Package business as a result of our household-focused strategy.   

  51  

Table of Contents   

         Esurance
brand auto premiums written totaled $1.31 billion in 2013, a 27.7% increase from $1.02 billion in 2012. The increase was primarily due to a 25.0% increase in PIF
as of December 31, 2013 compared to December 31, 2012. New issued applications increased 23.5% to 747 thousand in 2013 from 605 thousand in 2012. Growth in new
issued applications was driven by increased advertising, which resulted in an increase in quotes. Our conversion rate was comparable to the prior year. The renewal ratio increased 0.2 points in 2013
compared to 2012.   

         Esurance
brand auto premiums written totaled $1.02 billion in 2012. Esurance brand auto premiums written totaled $181 million in 2011 for the period from the
October 7, 2011 acquisition date to December 31, 2011. PIF increased 30.9% as of December 31, 2012 compared to December 31, 2011.   

            Homeowners premiums written    totaled $6.75 billion in 2013, a 4.5% increase from $6.46 billion in 2012, following a 3.2%
increase in 2012 from $6.26 billion in 2011. Excluding the cost of catastrophe reinsurance, premiums written increased 3.4% in 2013 compared to 2012. For a more detailed discussion on
reinsurance, see the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of the MD A and Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements.   

(1)     Includes
rate changes approved based on our net cost of reinsurance. Rate changes for Allstate brand exclude Canada.      (2)     Based
on historical premiums written in those states, rate changes approved for homeowners totaled $254 million, $412 million
and $533 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.       (3)     Includes
Washington D.C.    

Allstate
brand homeowners premiums written totaled $6.29 billion in 2013, a 3.8% increase from $6.06 billion in 2012. Factors impacting premiums written were the
following:  

2.2% decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2013 compared to December 31, 2012 due to fewer policies available
to renew.          31.6% increase in new issued applications to 625 thousand in 2013 from 475 thousand in 2012.          3.8%
increase in average premium in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to rate changes.          0.3 point increase in the renewal ratio in 2013 compared to 2012.          $56 million decrease in the cost of our catastrophe reinsurance program to $425 million in 2013 from
$481 million in 2012.    

For
Allstate brand homeowners, we continue to address rate adequacy and improve underwriting and claim effectiveness. Our primary focus continues to be on improving returns in our
homeowners business which is progressing as expected. The rate of PIF decline continues to moderate due to several factors including:  

Selectively entering areas previously closed to new business where we believe we will earn an appropriate return for the
risk.          Continued rollout of our Allstate House and Home product which provides options of coverage for roof damage including
graduated coverage and pricing based on roof type and age. Allstate House and Home accounted for 75% of Allstate brand homeowners new issued applications in 2013. House and Home has been rolled out in
27 states, making it available to approximately 60% of the U.S. population as of December 31, 2013. States with House and Home show new business growth greater than the countrywide average.          A decreased need for profitability improvement actions which has helped retention return to more normal levels.    

In
states with severe weather and risk, North Light and non-proprietary products will remain a critical component to our overall homeowners strategy to profitably grow and serve our
customers.   

  52  

Table of Contents   

         Allstate
brand homeowners premiums written totaled $6.06 billion in 2012, a 2.8% increase from $5.89 billion in 2011. Factors impacting premiums written were the
following:  

5.7% decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2012 compared to December 31, 2011 due to fewer policies available
to renew and fewer new issued applications.          2.5% decrease in new issued applications to 475 thousand in 2012 from 487 thousand in 2011 due to new
business underwriting restrictions in certain states.          8.4% increase in average premium in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to rate changes.          1.0 point decrease in the renewal ratio in 2012 compared to 2011.          $14 million decrease in the cost of our catastrophe reinsurance program
to $481 million in 2012 from
$495 million in 2011.    

Encompass
brand homeowners premiums written totaled $461 million in 2013, a 15.8% increase from $398 million in 2012. The increase was primarily due to an 8.9% increase in
PIF as of December 31, 2013 compared to December 31, 2012 and actions taken to enhance the Package policy. New issued applications increased 12.9% to 79 thousand in 2013 from
70 thousand in 2012. The renewal ratio increased 3.3 points in 2013 compared to 2012.   

         Encompass
brand homeowners premiums written totaled $398 million in 2012, a 9.9% increase from $362 million in 2011. The increase was primarily due to a 6.9% increase in
PIF as of December 31, 2012 compared to December 31, 2011 and actions taken to enhance the Package policy. New issued applications increased 40.0% to 70 thousand in 2012 from
50 thousand in 2011. The renewal ratio increased 3.5 points in 2012 compared to 2011 driven primarily by retaining more package business.   

           Other personal lines       Allstate brand other personal lines premiums written totaled $1.54 billion in 2013, a 1.6% increase from
$1.52 billion in 2012, following a 2.1% increase in 2012 from $1.48 billion in 2011. The increase in 2013 primarily relates to renter and condominium insurance.   

Commercial lines    premiums written totaled $466 million in 2013, a 2.6% increase from $454 million in 2012, following a 3.8%
decrease in 2012 from $472 million in 2011.   

            Other business lines    premiums written totaled $602 million in 2013, a 30.3% increase from $462 million in 2012, following an
11.1% increase in 2012 from $416 million in 2011. The increase in 2013 is primarily due to increased sales of vehicle service contracts at Allstate Dealer Services and new and expanded
partnerships where Allstate Roadside Services provides roadside assistance to the partners' customer base.   

  53  

Table of Contents    

            Underwriting results    are shown in the following table.   

Allstate
Protection had underwriting income of $2.36 billion in 2013 compared to $1.25 billion in 2012, primarily due to increases in underwriting income in homeowners and
auto, and underwriting income in other personal lines in 2013 compared to an underwriting loss in 2012. Homeowners underwriting income was $1.42 billion in 2013 compared to $690 million
in 2012, primarily due to decreased catastrophe losses, decreased loss costs excluding
catastrophe losses and increased premiums earned, partially offset by lower favorable reserve reestimates and higher expenses. Other personal lines underwriting income was $198 million in 2013
compared to an underwriting loss of $10 million in 2012, primarily due to decreased catastrophe losses, decreased loss costs excluding catastrophe losses, increased premiums earned and lower
unfavorable reserve reestimates, partially offset by higher expenses. Auto underwriting income was $668 million in 2013 compared to $469 million in 2012, primarily due to increased
premiums earned and decreased catastrophe losses including favorable Sandy reserve reestimates, partially offset by higher incurred losses excluding catastrophe losses, higher expenses and lower
favorable reserve reestimates.   

         Allstate
Protection had underwriting income of $1.25 billion in 2012 compared to an underwriting loss of $857 million in 2011, primarily due to underwriting income in
homeowners in 2012 compared to an underwriting loss in 2011 and a decrease in underwriting loss in other personal lines in 2012 compared to 2011, partially offset by a decrease in auto underwriting
income. Homeowners underwriting income was $690 million in the 2012 compared to an underwriting loss of $1.33 billion in 2011, primarily due to decreases in catastrophe losses and
average earned premiums increasing faster than loss costs, partially offset by higher expenses. Other personal lines underwriting loss was $10 million in 2012 compared to $188 million in
2011, primarily due to decreased catastrophe losses and lower unfavorable reserve reestimates. Auto underwriting income decreased $194 million to $469 million in 2012 from
$663 million in 2011 primarily due to the inclusion of a full year of Esurance brand's underwriting losses in 2012 and increases in catastrophe losses.   

            Catastrophe losses    were $1.25 billion in 2013 compared to $2.35 billion in 2012 and $3.82 billion in 2011.   

         We
define a "catastrophe" as an event that produces pre-tax losses before reinsurance in excess of $1 million and involves multiple first party policyholders, or an event that
produces a number of claims in excess of a preset, per-event threshold of average claims in a specific area, occurring within a certain amount of time following the event. Catastrophes are caused by
various natural events including high winds, winter storms, tornadoes, hailstorms, wildfires, tropical storms, hurricanes, earthquakes and volcanoes. We are also exposed to man-made catastrophic
events, such as   

  54  

Table of Contents   

certain
types of terrorism or industrial accidents. The nature and level of catastrophes in any period cannot be reliably predicted.   

         Catastrophe
losses by the size of event are shown in the following table.   

(1)     Reserve
reestimates related to Sandy in 2013 totaled $42 million favorable, including $52 million favorable for auto,
$29 million unfavorable for homeowners and $19 million favorable for other personal lines.    

Catastrophe
losses by the type of event are shown in the following table.   

Catastrophe
losses, including prior year reserve reestimates, excluding hurricanes named or numbered by the National Weather Service, fires following earthquakes and earthquakes totaled
$1.35 billion, $1.32 billion and $3.30 billion in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

  55  

Table of Contents   

           Combined ratio       Loss ratios by product, and expense and combined ratios by brand, are shown in the following table.   

(1)     Ratios
are calculated using the premiums earned for the respective line of business.    

Auto loss ratio    for the Allstate brand decreased 1.8 points in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to lower catastrophe losses, partially
offset by lower favorable reserve reestimates. Auto loss ratio for the Allstate brand increased 0.1 points in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to higher catastrophe losses and lower favorable
reserve reestimates.   

         Claim
frequencies in the bodily injury and property damage coverages decreased 1.1% and increased 0.3% in 2013, respectively, compared to 2012. Frequencies in both coverages continue to
perform within the historical ranges. Bodily injury and property damage coverage paid claim severities increased 3.8% and 1.8% in 2013, respectively, compared to 2012. Bodily injury severity in 2013
is showing only moderate growth compared to the historical Consumer Price Index ("CPI") trends after adjusting for geographic mix, age of claims and policy limit shifts. Claim frequencies in the
bodily injury and property damage coverages decreased 1.7% and 2.6% in 2012, respectively, compared to 2011. Bodily injury and property damage coverage paid claim severities increased 3.6% and 3.0% in
2012, respectively, compared to 2011. In 2012, severity increased in line with historical CPI trends.   

         Encompass
brand auto loss ratio decreased 5.0 points in 2013 compared to 2012, due to lower catastrophe losses, a higher mix of preferred insureds and higher favorable reserve
reestimates. Encompass is focused on profitability management actions which include changing its geographic footprint and increasing rates in certain geographies. Encompass brand auto loss ratio
decreased 3.5 points in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to favorable reserve reestimates, partially offset by higher catastrophe losses.   

Esurance
brand auto loss ratio increased 1.3 points in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to increases in the volume of new business, increased utilization of price discounts and
higher unallocated loss adjustment expense,   

  56  

Table of Contents   

  partially
offset by lower catastrophe losses. Esurance is focused on profitability management actions, including raising rates and tightening underwriting practices. These actions have contributed to
deceleration in the rate of growth in the second half of 2013 compared to the first half of 2013. They could also lead to lower growth in new issued applications and a decrease in the conversion rate.
Esurance brand auto loss ratio decreased 0.9 points in 2012 compared to 2011. In 2012, Esurance implemented a number of profitability management actions, including rate increases in 23 out of 30
states, and underwriting actions in Florida and Michigan.   

            Homeowners loss ratio    for the Allstate brand decreased 10.7 points to 53.4 in 2013 from 64.1 in 2012, primarily due to lower catastrophe
losses, decreased loss costs excluding catastrophe losses and increased premiums earned. Claim frequency excluding catastrophe losses decreased 0.3% in 2013 compared to 2012. Paid claim severity
excluding catastrophe losses decreased 0.2% in 2013 compared to 2012. Homeowners loss ratio for the Allstate brand decreased 33.9 points to 64.1 in 2012 from 98.0 in 2011 primarily due to lower
catastrophe losses and average earned premiums increasing faster than loss costs. Claim frequency excluding catastrophe losses decreased 8.8% in 2012 compared to 2011. Paid claim severity excluding
catastrophe losses increased 3.0% in 2012 compared to 2011.   

         Encompass
brand homeowners loss ratio decreased 20.2 points in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to lower catastrophe losses. Excluding the impact of catastrophe losses, the Encompass
brand homeowners loss ratio decreased 4.0 points in 2013 compared to 2012. Encompass brand homeowners loss ratio decreased 12.0 points in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to lower catastrophe
losses and favorable reserve reestimates.   

            Expense ratio    for Allstate Protection increased 0.7 points in 2013 compared to 2012. The impact of specific costs and expenses on the
expense ratio are shown in the following table.   

Amortization
of DAC primarily includes agent remuneration and premium taxes. Allstate exclusive agent remuneration comprises a base commission, variable compensation and a bonus. Agent
commissions and bonus were higher in 2013 compared to 2012. Variable compensation has two components: agency success factors (local presence, Allstate Financial product sales and licensed staff),
which must be achieved in order to qualify for the second component, customer experience (customer satisfaction survey). In addition, a bonus that is a percentage of premiums can be earned by agents.
To qualify for the bonus, agents must achieve a loss ratio and an amount of sales of Allstate Financial products. The bonus is earned by increases in multi-line households and increases in
Property-Liability policies in force and Allstate Financial policies in force.   

         The
Encompass brand DAC amortization is higher on average than Allstate brand DAC amortization due to higher commission rates paid to independent agencies. Since Esurance uses a direct
distribution model, its primary acquisition-related costs are advertising as opposed to commissions for the Allstate and Encompass brands.
Advertising costs are not capitalized as DAC while commission costs are capitalized as DAC. As a result, the Esurance expense and combined ratios will be higher during periods of growth since the
expenses will be recognized prior to the premium earned. Based on our analysis, Esurance's acquisition costs, primarily advertising, are in line with other distribution channels when considering the
cumulative earned premiums of policies sold. The Esurance brand expense ratio is higher than Allstate and Encompass brands due to business combination expenses and amortization of purchased intangible
assets. Purchased intangible assets are amortized on an accelerated basis with over 80% of the amortization taking place by 2016.   

         Other
costs and expenses increased in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to higher technology related costs and increased expenses at Esurance. Esurance has been developing additional
products to complement its auto line of business and provide a more comprehensive solution to its customers. In addition, Esurance is investing in geographic expansion of its products. Esurance
expanded its renters product from 5 to 16 states, expanded auto from 35 to 41   

  57  

Table of Contents   

  states,
introduced its motorcycle product in 6 states, and introduced its homeowners product in 3 states during 2013. These expansion initiatives, some of which commenced in the prior year,
contributed approximately 2 points to the expense ratio and are expected to continue in 2014. Other costs and expenses for Esurance also includes certain costs relating to the acquisition of new
business, such as salaries of telephone sales personnel and other underwriting costs, which increased in 2013 in connection with the growth in new business.   

         Restructuring
and related charges were $63 million in 2013, primarily related to the technology organization, which is changing its organizational structure by leveraging
centralization, global sourcing and automation to meet contemporary business needs; the closure of a contact center; and claim office consolidation.   

         We
have taken actions to reduce our future cost structure, including changes to our employee pension and other postretirement benefit offerings announced in July 2013 and the
restructuring items noted above. We expect the Allstate Protection expense ratio will decline over time.   

           DAC       We establish a DAC asset for costs that are related directly to the successful acquisition of new or renewal insurance policies,
principally
agents' remuneration and premium taxes. For the Allstate Protection business, DAC is amortized to income over the period in which premiums are earned. The DAC balance as of December 31 by brand
and product type are shown in the following table.   

Catastrophe management     

           Historical catastrophe experience       For the last ten years, the average annual impact of catastrophes on our Property-Liability loss ratio was
9.5
points. The average annual impact of catastrophes on the homeowners loss ratio for the last ten years was 33.6 points.   

Over
time, we have limited our aggregate insurance exposure to catastrophe losses in certain regions of the country that are subject to high levels of natural catastrophes. Limitations
include our participation in various state facilities, such as the California Earthquake Authority ("CEA"), which provides insurance for California earthquake losses; the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe
Fund ("FHCF"), which provides reimbursements to participating insurers for certain qualifying Florida hurricane losses; and other state facilities, such as wind pools. However, the impact of these
actions may be diminished by the growth in insured values, and the effect of state insurance laws and regulations. In addition, in various states we are required to participate in assigned risk plans,
reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations that provide insurance coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are unable to purchase such coverage from private insurers. Because
of our participation in these and other state facilities such as wind pools, we may be exposed to losses that surpass the capitalization of these facilities and to assessments from these facilities.   

         We
have continued to take actions to maintain an appropriate level of exposure to catastrophic events while continuing to meet the needs of our customers, including the
following:  

Continuing to not offer new homeowners business in certain coastal states.          Increased capacity in our brokerage platform for customers
not offered a renewal.          North Light expanded to 2 new states in 2013, bringing the total number of active states to 33.          In
Texas we have been ceding wind exposure related to insured property located in wind pool eligible areas along the coast
including the Galveston Islands.          We ceased writing new homeowners business in California in 2007. We continue to renew current policyholders.          We ceased writing new homeowners business in Florida in 2011 beyond a modest stance for existing customers who replace
their currently-insured home with an acceptable property. The Encompass companies operating in Florida withdrew from the property lines in 2009.          Tropical cyclone deductibles are in place
for a large portion of coastal insured properties though contract language
varies across states and companies, allowing for these higher deductibles to be triggered differently across our customer base.    
 
  58  

Table of Contents   

We have additional catastrophe exposure, beyond the property lines, for auto customers who have purchased physical damage
coverage. Auto physical damage coverage generally includes coverage for flood-related loss. We manage this additional exposure through inclusion of auto losses in our nationwide reinsurance program
(which excludes New Jersey and Florida). New Jersey auto losses are included in our New Jersey reinsurance program commencing in 2013.    

Hurricanes     

         We consider the greatest areas of potential catastrophe losses due to hurricanes generally to be major metropolitan centers in counties
along the eastern and gulf coasts of the United States. Usually, the average premium on a property policy near these coasts is greater than in other areas. However, average premiums are often not
considered commensurate with the inherent risk of loss. In addition and as explained in Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements, in various states Allstate is subject to assessments
from assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations providing insurance for wind related property losses.   

         We
have addressed our risk of hurricane loss by, among other actions, purchasing reinsurance for specific states and on a countrywide basis for our personal lines property insurance in
areas most exposed to hurricanes, limiting personal homeowners new business writings in coastal areas in southern and eastern states, implementing tropical cyclone deductibles where appropriate, and
not offering continuing coverage on certain policies in coastal counties in certain states. We continue to seek appropriate returns for the risks we write. This may require further actions, similar to
those already taken, in geographies where we are not getting appropriate returns. However, we may maintain or opportunistically increase our presence in areas where we achieve adequate returns and do
not materially increase our hurricane risk.   

    Earthquakes     

         Actions taken to reduce our exposure from earthquake coverage are substantially complete. These actions included purchasing reinsurance
on a countrywide basis and in the state of Kentucky, no longer offering new optional earthquake coverage in most states, removing optional earthquake coverage upon renewal in most states, and entering
into arrangements in many states to make earthquake coverage available through other insurers for new and renewal business.   

We
expect to retain approximately 30,000 PIF with earthquake coverage due to regulatory and other reasons. We also will continue to have exposure to earthquake risk on certain policies
that do not specifically exclude coverage for earthquake losses, including our auto policies, and to fires following earthquakes. Allstate policyholders in the state of California are offered coverage
through the CEA, a privately-financed, publicly-managed state agency created to provide insurance coverage for earthquake damage. Allstate is subject to assessments from the CEA under certain
circumstances as explained in Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements.   

Fires Following Earthquakes     

         Actions taken related to our risk of loss from fires following earthquakes include changing homeowners underwriting requirements in
California, purchasing reinsurance for Kentucky personal lines property risks, and purchasing nationwide occurrence reinsurance, excluding Florida and New Jersey.   

    Wildfires     

         Actions we are taking to reduce our risk of loss from wildfires include changing homeowners underwriting requirements in certain states
and purchasing nationwide occurrence reinsurance.   

    Reinsurance     

         A description of our current catastrophe reinsurance program appears in Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements.   

  59  

Table of Contents    

    DISCONTINUED LINES AND COVERAGES SEGMENT     

           Overview       The Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment includes results from insurance coverage that we no longer write and results for
certain
commercial and other businesses in run-off. Our exposure to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims is reported in this segment. We have assigned management of this segment to a
designated group of professionals with expertise in claims handling, policy coverage interpretation, exposure identification and reinsurance collection. As part of its responsibilities, this group may
at times be engaged in policy buybacks, settlements and reinsurance assumed and ceded commutations.   

         Summarized
underwriting results for the years ended December 31 are presented in the following table.   

Underwriting
losses of $143 million in 2013 related to a $74 million unfavorable reestimate of asbestos reserves, a $30 million unfavorable reestimate of
environmental reserves and a $30 million unfavorable reestimate of other exposure reserves, primarily as a result of our annual review using established industry and actuarial best practices,
partially offset by a $1 million decrease in our allowance for future uncollectable reinsurance. The cost of administering claims settlements totaled $13 million for 2013 and
$11 million for each of 2012 and 2011.   

         The
underwriting loss of $53 million in 2012 related to a $26 million unfavorable reestimate of asbestos reserves, a $22 million unfavorable reestimate of
environmental reserves and a $5 million unfavorable reestimate of other reserves, primarily as a result of our annual review using established industry and actuarial best practices, partially
offset by a $14 million decrease in our allowance for future uncollectable reinsurance.   

         The
underwriting loss of $25 million in 2011 related to a $26 million unfavorable reestimate of asbestos reserves and a $5 million unfavorable reestimate of other
reserves, primarily as a result of our annual review using established industry and actuarial best practices, partially offset by a $26 million decrease in our allowance for future
uncollectable reinsurance. Environmental reserves were essentially unchanged.   

         See
the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of the MD A for a more detailed discussion.   

    Discontinued Lines and Coverages outlook     

We may continue to experience asbestos and/or environmental losses in the future. These losses could be due to the
potential adverse impact of new information relating to new and additional claims or the impact of resolving unsettled claims based on unanticipated events such as litigation or legislative, judicial
and regulatory actions. Environmental losses may also increase as the result of additional funding for environmental site cleanup. Because of our annual review, we believe that our reserves are
appropriately established based on available information, technology, laws and regulations.          We continue to be encouraged that the pace of industry asbestos claim activity has slowed,
perhaps reflecting various
state legislative and judicial actions with respect to medical criteria and increased legal scrutiny of the legitimacy of claims.    
  60  

Table of Contents   

PROPERTY-LIABILITY INVESTMENT RESULTS     

          Net investment income       The following table presents net investment income.   

(1)     Income
from EMA limited partnerships is reported in net investment income in 2013 and 2012 and realized capital gains and
losses in 2011.    

The
average pre-tax investment yields for the years ended December 31 are presented in the following table. Pre-tax yield is calculated as annualized investment income before
investment expense (including dividend income in the case of equity securities) divided by the average of the investment balances at the end of each quarter during the year. Investment balances, for
purposes of the pre-tax yield calculation, exclude unrealized capital gains and losses.   

Net
investment income increased 3.7% to $1.38 billion in 2013 from $1.33 billion in 2012, after increasing 10.4% in 2012 compared to 2011. The 2013 increase was primarily
due to higher limited partnership income, average investment balances and equity dividends, as well as prepayment fee income and litigation proceeds which together increased income by a total of
$18 million in 2013, partially offset by lower fixed income yields. Higher EMA limited partnership income resulted from favorable equity and real estate valuations which increased the carrying
value of the partnerships, while cost method limited partnerships experienced an increase in earnings distributed by the partnerships. The decrease in fixed income yields is primarily due to actions
taken to reduce interest rate risk through dispositions of long-duration municipal and corporate fixed income securities and increased investment in floating rate securities and short and intermediate
term corporate fixed income securities. While the dispositions generated net realized capital gains, we expect a decline in investment income prospectively due to the lower yield on the reinvestment
of proceeds. The 2012 increase was primarily due to income from limited partnerships and higher average investment balances, partially offset by lower fixed income yields.   

  61  

Table of Contents   

            Net realized capital gains and losses    are presented in the following table.   

For
a further discussion of net realized capital gains and losses, see the Investments section of the MD A.   

    PROPERTY-LIABILITY CLAIMS AND CLAIMS EXPENSE RESERVES     

         Property-Liability underwriting results are significantly influenced by estimates of property-liability claims and claims expense
reserves. For a description of our reserve process, see Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements and for a further description of our reserving policies and the potential variability in
our reserve estimates, see the Application of Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD A. These reserves are an estimate of amounts necessary to settle all outstanding claims, including IBNR
claims, as of the reporting date.   

         The
facts and circumstances leading to our reestimates of reserves relate to revisions to the development factors used to predict how losses are likely to develop from the end of a
reporting period until all claims have been paid. Reestimates occur because actual losses are likely different than those predicted by the estimated development factors used in prior reserve
estimates. As of December 31, 2013, the impact of a reserve reestimation
corresponding to a one percent increase or decrease in net reserves would be a decrease or increase of approximately $112 million in net income available to common shareholders.   

         We
believe the net loss reserves for Allstate Protection exposures are appropriately established based on available facts, technology, laws and regulations.   

The
table below shows total net reserves as of December 31 by line of business.   

The
tables below show reserves, net of reinsurance, representing the estimated cost of outstanding claims as they were recorded at the beginning of years 2013, 2012 and 2011, and the
effect of reestimates in each year.   

62  

Table of Contents   

(1)     Favorable
reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.       (2)     Ratios
are calculated using Property-Liability premiums earned.       (3)     Prior
year reserve reestimates included in catastrophe losses totaled $88 million favorable in 2013, $410 million favorable in
2012 and $130 million favorable in 2011. The effect of catastrophe losses included in prior year reserve reestimates on the combined ratio totaled 0.3 favorable, 1.5 favorable and 0.5 favorable
in 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.    

Allstate Protection     

The tables below show Allstate Protection net reserves representing the estimated cost of outstanding claims as they were recorded at
the beginning of years 2013, 2012, and 2011, and the effect of reestimates in each year.   

63  

Table of Contents   

Auto
reserve reestimates in 2013, 2012, and 2011 were primarily due to claim severity development that was better than expected.   

         Favorable
homeowners reserve reestimates in 2013 were primarily due to favorable non-catastrophe reserve reestimates. Favorable homeowners reserve reestimates in 2012, and 2011 were
primarily due to favorable catastrophe reserve reestimates.   

         Other
personal lines reserve reestimates in 2013, 2012 and 2011 were primarily the result of non-catastrophe loss development higher than anticipated in previous estimates.   

         Commercial
lines reserve reestimates in 2013, 2012 and 2011 were primarily due to favorable non-catastrophe reserve reestimates.   

         Pending,
new and closed claims for Allstate Protection are summarized in the following table for the years ended December 31. The decrease in pending claims as of
December 31, 2013 compared to December 31, 2012 relates to   

  64  

Table of Contents   

  catastrophes.
The increase in pending claims as of December 31, 2012 compared to December 31, 2011 relates to catastrophes, primarily Sandy, for all lines as well as the inclusion of
Esurance claims for auto.   

(1)     Excludes
Esurance brand number of claims since not available.    

65  

Table of Contents   

         The
following tables reflect the accident years to which the reestimates shown above are applicable by line of business. Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.   

    2013 Prior year reserve reestimates     

2012 Prior year reserve reestimates     

2011 Prior year reserve reestimates     

Allstate brand    prior year reserve reestimates were $220 million favorable in 2013, $671 million favorable in 2012 and
$371 million favorable in 2011. In 2013, this was primarily due to severity development that was better than expected and catastrophe reserve reestimates. In 2012, this was primarily due to
favorable catastrophe reserve reestimates and severity development that was better than expected. The increased reserves in accident years 2002   prior is due to a reclassification of injury
reserves to older years and reserve strengthening. In 2011, this was primarily due to severity development that was better than expected and favorable catastrophe reserve reestimates. The increased
reserves in accident years 2001   prior is due to a reclassification of injury reserves to older years and reserve strengthening.   

         These
trends are primarily responsible for revisions to loss development factors, as described above, used to predict how losses are likely to develop from the end of a reporting period
until all claims have been paid. Because these trends   

  66  

Table of Contents   

  cause
actual losses to differ from those predicted by the estimated development factors used in prior reserve estimates, reserves are revised as actuarial studies validate new trends based on the
indications of updated development factor calculations.   

         The
impact of these reestimates on the Allstate brand underwriting income (loss) is shown in the table below.   

Encompass brand    prior year reserve reestimates in 2013 and 2012 were related to lower than anticipated claim settlement costs and
favorable catastrophe reserve reestimates. Reserve reestimates in 2011 were related to higher than anticipated claim settlement costs.   

The
impact of these reestimates on the Encompass brand underwriting income (loss) is shown in the table below.   

Esurance brand       There were no prior year reserve reestimates for Esurance in 2013 or 2012. However, the Esurance opening balance sheet
reserves were
reestimated in 2012 resulting in a $13 million reduction in reserves due to lower severity. The adjustment was recorded as a reduction in goodwill and an increase in payables to the seller
under the terms of the purchase agreement and therefore had no impact on claims expense or the loss ratio.   

Discontinued Lines and Coverages       We conduct an annual review in the third quarter of each year to evaluate and establish asbestos,
environmental and
other discontinued lines reserves. Reserves are recorded in the reporting period in which they are determined. Using established industry and actuarial best practices and assuming no change in the
regulatory or economic environment, this detailed and comprehensive methodology determines reserves based on assessments of the characteristics of exposure (e.g. claim activity, potential
liability, jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure) presented by policyholders.   

         Reserve
reestimates for the Discontinued Lines and Coverages are shown in the table below.   

Reserve
additions for asbestos in 2013 were primarily related to a cedent's settlement with a bankrupt insured of asbestos claims in excess of a previously advised amount and loss trends
from other claims. Reserve additions for asbestos in 2012 and 2011 were primarily for products related coverage due to increases for the assumed reinsurance portion of discontinued lines where we are
reliant on our ceding companies to report claims.   

         The
reserve additions for environmental in 2013 were primarily related to an adverse court ruling for site-specific disputed coverage. The reserve additions for environmental in 2012
were primarily related to site-specific remediations where the clean-up cost estimates and responsibility for the clean-up were more fully determined. Normal environmental claim activity resulted in
essentially no change in estimated reserves for 2011.   

  67  

Table of Contents   

         The
table below summarizes reserves and claim activity for asbestos and environmental claims before (Gross) and after (Net) the effects of reinsurance for the past three years.   

The
survival ratio is calculated by taking our ending reserves divided by payments made during the year. This is a commonly used but extremely simplistic and imprecise approach to
measuring the adequacy of asbestos and environmental reserve levels. Many factors, such as mix of business, level of coverage provided and settlement procedures have significant impacts on the amount
of environmental and asbestos claims and claims expense reserves, claim payments and the resultant ratio. As payments result in corresponding reserve reductions, survival ratios can be expected to
vary over time.   

         In
2013, the asbestos net 3-year survival ratio decreased due to continuing claim payments. In 2012, the asbestos net 3-year survival ratio increased due to lower average annual
payments. In 2013, the environmental net 3-year survival ratio increased due to reserve additions. In 2012, the environmental net 3-year survival ratio increased due to reserve additions and lower
average annual payments.   

         Our
net asbestos reserves by type of exposure and total reserve additions are shown in the following table.   

68  

Table of Contents   

         During
the last three years, 43 direct primary and excess policyholders reported new claims, and claims of 59 policyholders were closed, decreasing the number of active policyholders by
16 during the period. There was a net increase of 1 in 2013, including 12 new policyholders reporting new claims and the closing of 11 policyholders' claims. There was a net decrease of 13 in 2012
including 15 new policyholders reporting new claims and the closing of 28 policyholders' claims. There was a net decrease of 4 in 2011 including 16 new policyholders reporting new claims and the
closing of 20 policyholders' claims.   

         IBNR
net reserves decreased $16 million as of December 31, 2013 compared to December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2013 IBNR represented 56% of total net
asbestos reserves, compared to 57% as of December 31, 2012. IBNR provides for reserve development of known claims and future reporting of additional unknown claims from current policyholders
and ceding companies.   

         Pending,
new, total closed and closed without payment claims for asbestos and environmental exposures for the years ended December 31 are summarized in the following table.   

Property-Liability reinsurance ceded       For Allstate Protection, we utilize reinsurance to reduce exposure to catastrophe risk and manage
capital, and
to support the required statutory surplus and the insurance financial strength ratings of certain subsidiaries such as Castle Key Insurance Company and Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company. We
purchase significant reinsurance to manage our aggregate countrywide exposure to an acceptable level. The price and terms of reinsurance and the credit quality of the reinsurer are considered in the
purchase process, along with whether the price can be appropriately reflected in the costs that are considered in setting future rates charged to policyholders. We also participate in various
reinsurance mechanisms, including industry pools and facilities, which are backed by the financial resources of the property-liability insurance company market participants, and have historically
purchased reinsurance to mitigate long-tail liability lines, including environmental, asbestos and other discontinued lines exposures. We retain primary liability as a direct insurer for all risks
ceded to reinsurers.   

  69  

Table of Contents    

         Our reinsurance recoverable balances are shown in the following table as of December 31, net of the allowance we have established for uncollectible
amounts.   

(1)     N/A
reflects no rating available.       (2)     As
of December 31, 2013 and 2012, MCCA includes $29 million and $23 million of reinsurance recoverable on paid claims,
respectively, and $3.43 billion and $2.57 billion of reinsurance recoverable on unpaid claims, respectively.    

Reinsurance
recoverables include an estimate of the amount of property-liability insurance claims and claims expense reserves that may be ceded under the terms of the reinsurance
agreements, including incurred but not reported unpaid losses. We calculate our ceded reinsurance estimate based on the terms of each applicable reinsurance agreement, including an estimate of how
IBNR losses will ultimately be ceded under the agreement. We also consider other limitations and coverage exclusions under our reinsurance agreements. Accordingly, our estimate of reinsurance
recoverables is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as our estimate of reserves for property-liability claims and claims expense. We believe the recoverables are appropriately established;
however, as our underlying reserves continue to develop, the amount ultimately recoverable may vary from amounts currently recorded. We regularly evaluate the reinsurers and the respective amounts
recoverable, and a provision for uncollectible reinsurance is recorded if needed. The establishment of reinsurance recoverables and the related allowance for uncollectible reinsurance is also an
inherently uncertain process involving estimates. Changes in estimates could result in additional changes to the Consolidated Statements of Operations.   

         The
allowance for uncollectible reinsurance primarily relates to Discontinued Lines and Coverages reinsurance recoverables and was $92 million and $87 million as of
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The allowance for Discontinued Lines and Coverages represents 12.6% and 12.4% of the related reinsurance recoverable balances as of December 31,
2013 and 2012, respectively. The allowance is based upon our ongoing review of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing, and other relevant factors. In
addition, in the ordinary course of business, we may become involved in coverage disputes with certain of our reinsurers which may ultimately result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by or against
such reinsurers to determine the parties' rights and obligations under the various reinsurance agreements. We employ dedicated specialists to manage reinsurance collections and disputes. We also
consider recent developments in commutation activity between reinsurers and cedants, and recent   

  70  

Table of Contents   

  trends
in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes between cedants and reinsurers in seeking to maximize our reinsurance recoveries.   

         Adverse
developments in the insurance industry have led to a decline in the financial strength of some of our reinsurance carriers, causing amounts recoverable from them and future
claims ceded to them to be considered a higher risk. There has also been consolidation activity in the industry, which causes reinsurance risk across the industry to be concentrated among fewer
companies. In addition, some companies have segregated asbestos, environmental, and other discontinued lines exposures into separate legal entities with dedicated capital. Regulatory bodies in certain
cases have supported these actions. We are unable to determine the impact, if any, that these developments will have on the collectability of reinsurance recoverables in the future.   

         For
a detailed description of the MCCA, FHCF and Lloyd's, see Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2013, other than the recoverable balances
listed in the table above, no other amount due or estimated to be due from any single Property-Liability reinsurer was in excess of $24 million.   

The
effects of reinsurance ceded on our property-liability premiums earned and claims and claims expense for the years ended December 31 are summarized in the following table.   

In
2013, ceded property-liability premiums earned decreased $21 million compared to 2012, primarily due to decreased premium rates, acquiring reinsurance in the capital markets
and lower limits placed in our catastrophe reinsurance program, partially offset by higher MCCA reinsurance premiums due to an increase in policies written in Michigan. In 2012, ceded
property-liability premiums earned decreased $8 million compared to 2011, primarily due to decreased premiums in our catastrophe reinsurance program.   

Ceded
property-liability claims and claims expense decreased in 2013 primarily due to lower amounts ceded to the National Flood Insurance Program, partially offset by reserve increases
for the NJUCJF program. Ceded property-liability claims and claims expense increased in 2012 primarily due to amounts ceded to the National Flood Insurance Program related to Sandy, increases in
reserves ceded in the MCCA program, and amounts ceded under our catastrophe reinsurance program related to Sandy.   

         We
are experiencing similar experience as reported by the MCCA with reported and pending claims increasing in recent years. Moreover, the MCCA has reported severity increasing with more
than 60% of reimbursements for attendant and residential claim services. Michigan's unique no-fault auto insurance law provides unlimited lifetime coverage for medical expenses resulting from auto
accidents. The reserve increases in the MCCA program are attributable to an increased recognition of longer term paid loss trends. The paid loss trends are rising due to increased costs in medical and
attendant care and increased longevity of claimants.   

  71  

Table of Contents   

         The
table below summarizes reserves and claim activity for Michigan personal injury protection claims before (Gross) and after (Net) the effects of MCCA reinsurance for the years ended
December 31.   

(1)     Excludes
Esurance brand since not available.       (2)     Reserves
comprise 66% case reserves and 34% IBNR.    

Pending,
new and closed claims for Michigan personal injury protection exposures for the years ended December 31 are summarized in the following table.   

(1)     Excludes
Esurance claims totaling 391 as of December 31, 2011.    

The
reserve increases of $351 million in the NJUCJF program in 2013 are attributable to unlimited personal injury protection coverage on policies written prior to 1991. The ceded
claims reflects increased longer term paid loss
trends due to increased costs of medical care and increased longevity of claimants. New claims for this cohort of policies are unlikely and pending claims are expected to decline.   

         We
enter into certain intercompany insurance and reinsurance transactions for the Property-Liability operations in order to maintain underwriting control and manage insurance risk among
various legal entities. These reinsurance agreements have been approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities. All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.   

    Catastrophe reinsurance     

         Our catastrophe reinsurance program is designed, utilizing our risk management methodology, to address our exposure to catastrophes
nationwide. Our program is designed to provide reinsurance protection for catastrophes including hurricanes, windstorms, hail, tornados, fires following earthquakes, earthquakes and wildfires. These
reinsurance agreements are part of our catastrophe management strategy, which is intended to provide our shareholders an acceptable return on the risks assumed in our property business, and to reduce
variability of earnings, while providing protection to our customers.   

         We
anticipate completing the placement of our 2014 catastrophe reinsurance program in second quarter 2014. We expect the program will be similar to our 2013 catastrophe reinsurance
program. For further details of the existing 2013 program, see Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements.   

    ALLSTATE FINANCIAL 2013 HIGHLIGHTS     

Net income available to common shareholders was $95 million in 2013 compared to $541 million in 2012.          Premiums and contract
charges on underwritten products, including traditional life, interest-sensitive life and accident
and health insurance, totaled $2.30 billion in 2013, an increase of 5.5% from $2.18 billion in 2012.          Investments totaled $39.11 billion as of December 31, 2013,
reflecting a decrease of $17.89 billion
from $57.00 billion as of December 31, 2012. Investments classified as held for sale totaled $11.98 billion as of December 31, 2013. Net investment income decreased 4.1% to
$2.54 billion in 2013 from $2.65 billion in 2012.          Net realized capital gains totaled $74 million in 2013 compared to net realized capital losses of
$13 million in 2012.    
  72  

Table of Contents   

During 2013, loss on disposition of $521 million, after-tax, was recorded relating to the pending sale of Lincoln
Benefit Life Company.          Contractholder funds totaled $24.30 billion as of December 31, 2013, reflecting a decrease of
$15.02 billion from $39.32 billion as of December 31, 2012. Contractholder funds classified as held for sale totaled $10.95 billion as of December 31, 2013.    

    ALLSTATE FINANCIAL SEGMENT     

           Overview and strategy       The Allstate Financial segment sells life insurance and voluntary employee benefits products. We serve our customers
through
Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists, and workplace distribution. Allstate Financial brings value to The Allstate Corporation in three principal ways: through profitable
growth, by bringing new customers to Allstate, and by improving the economics of the Protection business through increased customer loyalty and stronger customer relationships based on cross selling
Allstate Financial products to existing customers. Allstate Financial's strategy is focused on expanding Allstate customer relationships, growing the number of products delivered to customers through
Allstate exclusive agencies and Allstate Benefits (our workplace distribution business), improving returns on our in-force annuity products, and emphasizing capital efficiency and shareholder returns.   

         On
July 17, 2013, we announced our plans to exit the independent master brokerage agencies distribution channel. In connection with this announcement, we entered into a definitive
agreement with Resolution Life Holdings, Inc. to sell Lincoln Benefit Life Company, LBL's life insurance business generated through independent master brokerage agencies, and all
of LBL's deferred fixed annuity and long-term care insurance business for $600 million subject to certain adjustments as of the closing date. The transaction is subject to
regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. We expect the closing to occur in April 2014. The estimated loss on disposition of $521 million, after-tax, was recorded in 2013.
The business being sold had $341 million of premiums and contract charges in 2013. Effective July 18, 2013, we no longer offer any products through the independent master brokerage
agency distribution channel.   

         The
products we currently offer include interest-sensitive, traditional and variable life insurance; and voluntary accident and health insurance. Our products are sold through Allstate
exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists and workplace enrolling independent agents. Effective January 1, 2014, we no longer offer fixed annuities such as deferred and immediate
annuities. Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists have a portfolio of non-proprietary products, including fixed and variable annuities and mutual funds, available to meet
customer needs. We are planning to outsource the administration of our annuity business to a third party administration company by the end of 2014. Institutional products consisting of funding
agreements sold to unaffiliated trusts that use them to back medium-term notes were previously offered and $85 million remain outstanding as of December 31, 2013. Banking products and
services were previously offered to customers through the Allstate Bank, which ceased operations in 2011.   

         Based
upon Allstate's strong financial position and brand, we have a unique opportunity to cross-sell our products to meet the needs of more Allstate customers. We will enhance trusted
customer relationships established through Allstate exclusive agencies to serve those who are looking for assistance in meeting their protection and retirement needs by providing them with
information, products and services. To further strengthen Allstate Financial's value proposition to Allstate exclusive agencies and drive further engagement in selling our products, Allstate Financial
products are integrated into the Allstate Protection sales processes and the agent compensation structure incorporates sales of Allstate Financial products. Life insurance policies issued through
Allstate agencies increased 3.9% and 9.3% in 2013 and 2012, respectively, compared to the prior years.   

         Our
employer relationships through Allstate Benefits also afford opportunities to offer Allstate products to more customers and grow our business. Allstate Benefits is an industry leader
in voluntary benefits, offering one of the broadest product portfolios in the voluntary benefits market. Our strategy for Allstate Benefits focuses on growth in the national accounts market by
increasing the number of sales and account management personnel, expanding independent agent distribution in targeted geographic locations for increased new sales, increasing Allstate exclusive agency
engagement to drive cross selling of voluntary benefits products, and developing opportunities for revenue growth through new product and fee income offerings. Allstate Benefits new business written
premiums increased 9.4% and 6.5% in 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

         Our
in-force deferred and immediate annuity business has been adversely impacted by the credit cycle and historically low interest rate environment. Our immediate annuity business has
also been impacted by medical advancements that have resulted in annuitants living longer than anticipated when many of these contracts were originated. We have reduced the level of legacy deferred
annuities in force and proactively manage annuity crediting rates to improve the profitability of the business. The pending LBL sale will further reduce the level of deferred annuities   

  73  

Table of Contents   

  in
force. We are managing the investment portfolio supporting our immediate annuities to ensure the assets match the characteristics of the liabilities and provide the long-term returns needed to
support this business. We are increasing investments in which we have ownership interests and a greater proportion of return is derived from idiosyncratic operating or market performance including
equities and real estate to more appropriately match investment duration with these long-term liabilities.   

    Allstate Financial outlook     

Our growth initiatives continue to focus on increasing the number of customers served through our proprietary Allstate
agency and Allstate Benefits channels.          We continue to focus on improving returns on our in-force deferred and immediate annuity products.          We plan to accelerate growth of premiums and contract charges by offering a broad range of products to meet our customers'
needs. The solutions we offer to meet customer life and retirement needs will include underwritten insurance products as well as third-party solutions where we choose not to offer certain products.          We expect lower investment spread due to reduced contractholder funds, the continuing low interest rate environment and
changes in asset allocations. The amount by which the low interest rate environment will reduce our investment spread is contingent on our ability to maintain the portfolio yield and lower interest
crediting rates on spread-based products, which could be limited by market conditions, regulatory minimum rates or contractual minimum rate guarantees, and may not match the timing or magnitude of
changes in asset yields. We also anticipate changing our asset allocation for long-term immediate annuities to have less reliance on investments whose returns come primarily from interest payments to
investments in which we have ownership interests and a greater proportion of return is derived from idiosyncratic operating or market performance including equities and real estate. This shift could
result in lower and more volatile investment income; however, we anticipate that this strategy will lead to higher total returns on attributed equity.          Allstate Financial's attributed
GAAP equity may increase as there may be limitations on the amount of dividends Allstate
Financial companies can pay without prior approval by their insurance departments.          We continue to review our strategic options to reduce our exposure and improve returns of the
spread-based businesses. As
a result, we may take additional operational and financial actions that offer return improvement and risk reduction opportunities.    
  74  

Table of Contents   

          Summary analysis       Summarized financial data for the years ended December 31 is presented in the following table.   

Net income available to common shareholders    was $95 million in 2013 compared to $541 million in 2012. The decrease was
primarily due to the estimated loss on disposition related to the pending LBL sale, lower net investment income and higher life and annuity contract benefits, partially offset by higher life and
annuity premiums and contract charges, net realized capital gains in 2013 compared to net realized capital losses in 2012 and decreased amortization of DAC.   

Net
income in 2012 was $541 million compared to $590 million in 2011. The decrease was primarily due to net realized capital losses in 2012 compared to net realized capital
gains in 2011, lower net investment income and higher life and annuity contract benefits, partially offset by decreased interest credited to contractholder funds and lower amortization of DAC.   

           Analysis of revenues       Total revenues increased 1.8% or $89 million in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to higher life and annuity
premiums
and contract charges and net realized capital gains in 2013 compared to net realized capital losses in 2012, partially offset by lower net investment income. Total revenues decreased 8.7% or
$467 million in 2012 compared to 2011 due to net realized capital losses in 2012 compared to net realized capital gains in 2011 and lower net investment income.   

           Life and annuity premiums and contract charges       Premiums represent revenues generated from traditional life insurance, immediate annuities
with life
contingencies, and accident and health insurance products that have significant mortality or morbidity risk. Contract charges are revenues generated from interest-sensitive and variable life insurance
and fixed annuities for which deposits are classified as contractholder funds or separate account liabilities. Contract charges are assessed against the contractholder account values for maintenance,
administration, cost of insurance and surrender prior to contractually specified dates.   

  75  

Table of Contents   

         The
following table summarizes life and annuity premiums and contract charges by product for the years ended December 31.   

(1)     Contract
charges related to the cost of insurance totaled $725 million, $696 million and $659 million in 2013, 2012 and
2011, respectively.    

Total
premiums and contract charges increased 5.0% in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to growth in Allstate Benefits accident and health insurance business, higher contract charges
on interest-sensitive life
insurance products primarily resulting from the aging of our policyholders and growth of insurance in force, and increased traditional life insurance premiums due to lower reinsurance premiums ceded
and higher sales and renewals through Allstate agencies, partially offset by lower sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies. Effective March 22, 2013, we no longer offer structured
settlement annuities. We continue to service the in-force structured settlement contracts.   

Total
premiums and contract charges increased 0.1% in 2012 compared to 2011, primarily due to higher contract charges on interest-sensitive life insurance products primarily resulting
from the aging of our policyholders and lower reinsurance ceded, and increased traditional life insurance premiums due to lower reinsurance ceded and higher sales through Allstate agencies, partially
offset by lower sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies.   

            Contractholder funds    represent interest-bearing liabilities arising from the sale of products such as interest-sensitive life insurance,
fixed annuities, funding agreements and, prior to December 31, 2011, bank deposits. The balance of contractholder funds is equal to the cumulative deposits received and interest credited to the
contractholder less   

  76  

Table of Contents   

cumulative
contract benefits, surrenders, withdrawals, maturities and contract charges for mortality or administrative expenses. The following table shows the changes in contractholder funds for the
years ended December 31.   

(1)     The
table above illustrates the changes in contractholder funds, which are presented gross of reinsurance recoverables on the Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position. The table above is intended to supplement our discussion and analysis of revenues, which are presented net of reinsurance on the Consolidated Statements of
Operations. As a result, the net change in contractholder funds associated with products reinsured to third parties is reflected as a component of the other adjustments line.    

Contractholder
funds decreased 38.2%, 7.1% and 12.2% in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The decrease in 2013 reflects the reclassification of contractholder funds held for sale
relating to the pending LBL sale. Contractholder funds including those classified as held for sale decreased 10.4% in 2013, reflecting a large institutional product maturity in 2013 and our continuing
strategy to reduce our concentration in spread-based products. Average contractholder funds decreased 22.1% in 2013 compared to 2012 and 9.8% in 2012 compared to 2011.   

         Contractholder
deposits increased 7.3% in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to increased fixed annuity deposits driven by the new equity-indexed annuity products and higher deposits
on immediate annuities, as well as higher deposits on interest-sensitive life insurance. Contractholder deposits decreased 1.9% in 2012 compared to 2011, primarily due to increased fixed annuity
deposits driven by new equity-indexed annuity products launched in second quarter 2012 being more than offset by the absence of Allstate Bank deposits in 2012.   

Surrenders
and partial withdrawals on deferred fixed annuities and interest-sensitive life insurance products decreased 17.3% to $3.30 billion in 2013 from $3.99 billion in
2012. Surrenders and partial withdrawals on deferred fixed annuities and interest-sensitive life insurance products decreased 19.1% to $3.99 billion in 2012 from $4.94 billion in 2011.
2011 had elevated surrenders on fixed annuities resulting from crediting rate actions and a large number of contracts reaching the 30-45 day period (typically at their 5 or 6 year
anniversary) during which there is no surrender charge. The surrender and partial withdrawal rate on deferred fixed annuities and interest-sensitive life insurance products, based on the beginning of
year contractholder funds, was 10.2% in 2013 compared to 11.3% in 2012 and 12.6% in 2011.   

Maturities
of and interest payments on institutional products in 2013 include a $1.75 billion maturity. There are $85 million of institutional products outstanding as of
December 31, 2013. Maturities of and interest payments on institutional products decreased to $138 million in 2012 from $867 million in 2011, reflecting differences in the timing
and magnitude of maturities.   

            Net investment income    decreased 4.1% or $109 million to $2.54 billion in 2013 from $2.65 billion in 2012, primarily
due to lower average investment balances, partially offset by higher prepayment fee income and litigation proceeds   

  77  

Table of Contents   

  which
together increased income by a total of $50 million in 2013 and higher limited partnership income. Net investment income in 2013 includes $264 million relating to investments
classified as held for sale for the period from July 17, 2013 to December 31, 2013. Net investment income decreased 2.5% to $2.65 billion in 2012 from
$2.72 billion in 2011, primarily due to lower average investment balances and lower yields on fixed income securities, partially offset by income from limited partnerships.   

Net realized capital gains and losses    for the years ended December 31 are presented in the following table.   

(1)     Income
from EMA limited partnerships is reported in net investment income in 2013 and 2012 and realized capital gains and losses in 2011.    

For
further discussion of realized capital gains and losses, see the Investments section of the MD A.   

           Analysis of costs and expenses       Total costs and expenses decreased 0.4% or $16 million in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to lower
amortization of DAC and interest credited to contractholder funds, partially offset by higher life and annuity contract benefits. Total costs and expenses decreased 7.7% or $345 million in 2012
compared to 2011, primarily due to lower interest credited to contractholder funds and amortization of DAC, partially offset by higher life and annuity contract benefits.   

Life and annuity contract benefits    increased 5.4% or $99 million in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to an increase in reserves
for secondary guarantees on interest-sensitive life insurance, growth at Allstate Benefits and worse mortality experience on life insurance. Our 2013 annual review of assumptions resulted in a
$37 million increase in reserves primarily for secondary guarantees on interest-sensitive life insurance due to higher concentration of and increased projected exposure to secondary guarantees.   

         Life
and annuity contract benefits increased 3.2% or $57 million in 2012 compared to 2011, primarily due to worse mortality experience on life insurance and the reduction in
accident and health insurance reserves at Allstate Benefits in 2011, partially offset by lower sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies and the reduction in reserves for secondary
guarantees on interest-sensitive life insurance. Our 2012 annual review of assumptions resulted in a $13 million decrease in the reserves for secondary guarantees on interest-sensitive life
insurance due to favorable projected mortality.   

         We
analyze our mortality and morbidity results using the difference between premiums and contract charges earned for the cost of insurance and life and annuity contract benefits
excluding the portion related to the implied interest on immediate annuities with life contingencies ("benefit spread"). This implied interest totaled $527 million, $538 million and
$541 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

  78  

Table of Contents   

         The
benefit spread by product group for the years ended December 31 is disclosed in the following table.   

Benefit
spread decreased 0.2% or $1 million in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to the increase in reserves for secondary guarantees on interest-sensitive life insurance and
worse mortality experience on life insurance and annuities, partially offset by premium growth in Allstate Benefits accident and health insurance and higher cost of insurance contract charges on
interest-sensitive life insurance.   

         Benefit
spread decreased 7.2% or $45 million in 2012 compared to 2011, primarily due to worse mortality experience on life insurance and annuities and the reduction in accident
and health insurance reserves at Allstate Benefits in 2011, partially offset by lower reinsurance premiums ceded on life insurance, higher cost of insurance contract charges on interest-sensitive life
insurance and the reduction in reserves for secondary guarantees on interest-sensitive life insurance.   

            Interest credited to contractholder funds    decreased 2.9% or $38 million in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to lower average
contractholder funds and lower interest crediting rates, partially offset by the valuation change on derivatives embedded in equity-indexed annuity contracts that reduced interest credited expense in
2012. Interest credited to contractholder funds decreased 20.0% or $329 million in 2012 compared to 2011, primarily due to the valuation change on derivatives embedded in equity-indexed annuity
contracts that reduced interest credited expense, lower average contractholder funds and lower interest crediting rates. Valuation changes on derivatives embedded in equity-indexed annuity contracts
that are not hedged increased interest credited to contractholder funds by $24 million in 2013 compared to a $126 million decrease in 2012 and an $18 million increase in 2011.
During third quarter 2012, we reviewed the significant valuation inputs for these embedded derivatives and reduced the projected option cost to reflect management's current and anticipated crediting
rate setting actions, which were informed by the existing and projected low interest rate environment and are consistent with our strategy to reduce exposure to spread-based business. The reduction in
projected interest rates resulted in a reduction of contractholder funds and interest credited expense by $169 million in 2012.   

         In
order to analyze the impact of net investment income and interest credited to contractholders on net income, we monitor the difference between net investment income and the sum of
interest credited to contractholder funds and the implied interest on immediate annuities with life contingencies, which is included as a component of life and annuity contract benefits on the
Consolidated Statements of Operations ("investment spread").   

  79  

Table of Contents    

         The investment spread by product group for the years ended December 31 is shown in the following table.   

Investment
spread before valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged increased 13.5% or $90 million in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to lower crediting
rates, higher prepayment fee income and litigation proceeds and higher limited partnership income, partially offset by the continued managed reduction in our spread-based business in force. Investment
spread before valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged increased 21.7% or $119 million in 2012 compared to 2011 due to income from limited partnerships and lower crediting
rates, partially offset by lower yields on fixed income securities and the continued managed reduction in our spread-based business in force.   

         To
further analyze investment spreads, the following table summarizes the weighted average investment yield on assets supporting product liabilities and capital, interest crediting rates
and investment spreads. For purposes of these calculations, investments, reserves and contractholder funds classified as held for sale are included.   

80  

Table of Contents   

The
following table summarizes our product liabilities as of December 31 and indicates the account value of those contracts and policies in which an investment spread is
generated.   

Amortization of DAC    decreased 18.2% or $73 million in 2013 compared to 2012 and 18.8% or $93 million in 2012 compared to
2011. The components of amortization of DAC for the years ended December 31 are summarized in the following table.   

(1)     The
impact of realized capital gains and losses on amortization of DAC is dependent upon the relationship between the assets that give rise to
the gain or loss and the product liability supported by the assets. Fluctuations result from changes in the impact of realized capital gains and losses on actual and expected gross profits.    

The
decrease in DAC amortization in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to the absence of amortization on a large fixed annuity block that became fully amortized in 2012, lower
amortization relating to valuation changes on derivatives embedded in equity-indexed annuity contracts due to a large valuation change in 2012, lower amortization on interest-sensitive life insurance
resulting from decreased benefit spread, and lower amortization acceleration for changes in assumptions. Amortization relating to valuation changes on derivatives embedded in equity-indexed annuity
contracts was $1 million in 2013 compared to $25 million in 2012.   

         The
decrease in DAC amortization in 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to decreased amortization relating to realized capital gains and losses and decreased amortization on fixed
annuity products due to the DAC balance for contracts issued prior to 2010 being fully amortized, partially offset by increased amortization acceleration for changes in assumptions and increased
amortization relating to valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged.   

Our
annual comprehensive review of the profitability of our products to determine DAC balances for our interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment contracts covers
assumptions for persistency, mortality, expenses, investment returns, including capital gains and losses, interest crediting rates to policyholders, and the effect of any hedges in all product lines.
In 2013, the review resulted in an acceleration of DAC amortization (charge to income) of $23 million. Amortization acceleration of $38 million related to interest-sensitive life
insurance and was primarily due to   

  81  

Table of Contents   

  an
increase in projected mortality and expenses, partially offset by increased projected investment margins. Amortization deceleration of $12 million related to fixed annuities and was
primarily due to an increase in projected investment margins. Amortization deceleration of $3 million related to variable life insurance.   

         In
2012, the review resulted in an acceleration of DAC amortization of $34 million. Amortization acceleration of $38 million related to variable life insurance and was
primarily due to an increase in projected mortality. Amortization acceleration of $4 million related to fixed annuities and was primarily due to lower projected investment returns. Amortization
deceleration of $8 million related to interest-sensitive life insurance and was primarily due to an increase in projected persistency.   

         In
2011, the review resulted in an acceleration of DAC amortization of $7 million. Amortization acceleration of $12 million related to interest-sensitive life insurance and
was primarily due to an increase in projected expenses. Amortization deceleration of $5 million related to equity-indexed annuities and was primarily due to an increase in projected investment
margins.   

         The
changes in DAC for the years ended December 31 are detailed in the following table.   

(1)     Included
as a component of amortization of DAC on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.       (2)     Represents
the change in the DAC adjustment for unrealized capital gains and losses. The DAC adjustment represents the amount by which the
amortization of DAC would increase or decrease if the unrealized gains and losses in the respective product portfolios were realized.    

Operating costs and expenses    decreased 1.9% or $11 million in 2013 compared to 2012 and increased 3.8% or $21 million in
2012 compared to 2011. The following table summarizes operating costs and expenses for the years ended December 31.   

General
and administrative expenses decreased 5.5% or $23 million in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to lower employee related expenses and proceeds received from a
litigation settlement.   

         General
and administrative expenses increased 9.4% or $36 million in 2012 compared to 2011, primarily due to higher employee related expenses, lower reinsurance expense allowances
and increased marketing costs, partially offset by a charge in 2011 related to the liquidation plan for Executive Life Insurance Company of New York, the elimination of expenses following our exit
from the banking business in 2011 and lower pension costs.   

            Loss on disposition    of $687 million in 2013 includes the estimated $698 million loss relating to the pending LBL sale. Gain
on disposition of $18 million in 2012 relates to the amortization of the deferred gain from the disposition through   

  82  

Table of Contents   

  reinsurance
of substantially all of our variable annuity business in 2006, and the sale of Surety Life Insurance Company, which was not used for new business, in third quarter 2012. Loss on
disposition of $7 million in 2011 included $22 million related to the dissolution of Allstate Bank. In 2011, after receiving regulatory approval to dissolve, Allstate Bank ceased
operations.   

           Reinsurance ceded       We enter into reinsurance agreements with unaffiliated reinsurers to limit our risk of mortality
and morbidity losses. In addition, Allstate Financial has used reinsurance to effect the acquisition or disposition of certain blocks of business. We retain primary liability as a direct insurer for
all risks ceded to reinsurers. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, 36% and 39%, respectively, of our face amount of life insurance in force was reinsured. Additionally, we ceded substantially all
of the risk associated with our variable annuity business.   

Our
reinsurance recoverables, summarized by reinsurer as of December 31, are shown in the following table.   

(1)     The
Company has extensive reinsurance contracts directly with Swiss Re and its affiliates and indirectly through Swiss Re's acquisition of
other companies with whom we had reinsurance or retrocession contracts.       (2)     As
of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the other category includes $58 million and $75 million, respectively, of recoverables
due from reinsurers with an investment grade credit rating from Standard   Poor's ("S P").       (3)     Reinsurance
recoverables classified as held for sale were $1.66 billion as of December 31, 2013.       (4)     N/A
reflects no rating available.    

We
continuously monitor the creditworthiness of reinsurers in order to determine our risk of recoverability on an individual and aggregate basis, and a provision for uncollectible
reinsurance is recorded if needed. No amounts have been deemed unrecoverable in the three-years ended December 31, 2013.   

         We
enter into certain intercompany reinsurance transactions for the Allstate Financial operations in order to maintain underwriting control and manage insurance risk among various legal
entities. These reinsurance
agreements have been approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities. All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.   

    INVESTMENTS 2013 HIGHLIGHTS     

Investments totaled $81.16 billion as of December 31, 2013, decreasing from $97.28 billion as of
December 31, 2012. Investments classified as held for sale totaled $11.98 billion as of December 31, 2013.          Unrealized net capital gains totaled $2.70 billion as of
December 31, 2013, decreasing from
$5.55 billion as of December 31, 2012.          Net investment income was $3.94 billion in 2013, a decrease of 1.7% from $4.01 billion in 2012.          Net realized capital gains were $594 million in 2013 compared to $327 million in 2012.    
  83  

Table of Contents   

    INVESTMENTS     

           Overview and strategy       The return on our investment portfolios is an important component of our financial results. Investment portfolios are
segmented
between the Property-Liability, Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other operations. While taking into consideration the investment portfolio in aggregate, we manage the underlying portfolios based
upon the nature of each respective business and its corresponding liability structure.   

We
employ a strategic asset allocation approach which considers the nature of the liabilities and risk tolerances, as well as the risk and return parameters of the various asset classes
in which we invest. This asset allocation is informed by our global economic and market outlook, as well as other inputs and constraints, including diversification effects, duration, liquidity and
capital considerations. Within the ranges set by the strategic asset allocation, tactical investment decisions are made in consideration of prevailing market conditions. We manage risks associated
with interest rates, credit spreads, equity markets, real estate and currency exchange rates. Our continuing focus is to manage risks and returns and to position our portfolio to take advantage of
market opportunities while attempting to mitigate adverse effects.   

         The
Property-Liability portfolio's investment strategy emphasizes protection of principal and consistent income generation, within a total return framework. This approach, which has
produced competitive returns over the long term, is designed to ensure financial strength and stability for paying claims, while maximizing economic value and surplus growth.   

         The
Allstate Financial portfolio's investment strategy focuses on the total return of assets needed to support the underlying liabilities, asset-liability management and achieving an
appropriate return on capital.   

         The
Corporate and Other portfolio's investment strategy balances the unique liquidity needs of the portfolio in relation to the overall corporate capital structure with the pursuit of
returns.   

    Investments outlook     

         Although interest rates rose in 2013, we anticipate that they may remain below historic averages for an extended period of time and
that financial markets will continue to have periods of high volatility. Invested assets and income are expected to decline in line with reductions in contractholder funds for the Allstate Financial
segment, including $11.98 billion of investments classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2013 related to the pending sale of Lincoln Benefit Life. Additionally, income will
decline as we continue to invest and reinvest proceeds at market yields that are below the current portfolio yield. We plan to focus on the following
priorities:  

Managing our exposure to interest rate risk by maintaining a shorter maturity profile in the Property-Liability portfolio.          Shifting
the portfolio mix to have less reliance on investments whose returns come primarily from interest payments to
investments in which we have ownership interests and a greater proportion of return is derived from idiosyncratic operating or market performance including equities and real estate          Investing to the specific needs and characteristics of Allstate's businesses.    

Portfolio composition       The composition of the investment portfolios as of December 31, 2013 is presented in the following table.

(1)     Fixed
income securities are carried at fair value. Amortized cost basis for these securities was $29.05 billion, $28.30 billion,
$1.66 billion and $59.01 billion for Property-Liability, Allstate Financial, Corporate and Other, and in Total, respectively.    

84  

Table of Contents   

(2)     Equity
securities are carried at fair value. Cost basis for these securities was $3.86 billion, $607 million and
$4.47 billion for Property-Liability, Allstate Financial and in Total, respectively.       (3)     We
have commitments to invest in additional limited partnership interests totaling $1.48 billion, $1.37 billion and
$2.85 billion for Property-Liability, Allstate Financial and in Total, respectively.       (4)     Short-term
investments are carried at fair value. Amortized cost basis for these investments was $1.00 billion, $668 million,
$723 million and $2.39 billion for Property-Liability, Allstate Financial, Corporate and Other, and in Total, respectively.       (5)     Balances
reflect the elimination of related party investments between segments.    

Total
investments decreased to $81.16 billion as of December 31, 2013, from $97.28 billion as of December 31, 2012, primarily due to the reclassification of
investments relating to LBL to assets held for sale. Total investments including those classified as held for sale were $93.14 billion as of December 31, 2013, a decrease of
$4.14 billion from December 31, 2012, reflecting net reductions in Allstate Financial's contractholder funds and lower fixed income valuations. The decline in valuation of fixed income
securities during 2013 was primarily due to increasing risk-free interest rates.   

The
Property-Liability investment portfolio increased to $39.64 billion as of December 31, 2013, from $38.22 billion as of December 31, 2012, primarily due to
positive operating cash flows, partially offset by dividends paid by Allstate Insurance Company ("AIC") to The Allstate Corporation (the "Corporation") and lower fixed income valuations.   

         The
Allstate Financial investment portfolio decreased to $39.11 billion as of December 31, 2013, from $57.00 billion as of December 31, 2012, primarily due to
the reclassification of investments relating to LBL to assets held for sale, our continuing strategy to reduce our concentration in spread based products and lower fixed income valuations.   

The
Corporate and Other investment portfolio increased to $2.41 billion as of December 31, 2013, from $2.06 billion as of December 31, 2012, primarily due to
the proceeds from the issuance of debt and preferred stock, and dividends paid by AIC to the Corporation, partially offset by payments for the debt tender offer, common share repurchases and dividends
paid to common shareholders.   

         During
2013, strategic actions focused on optimizing portfolio yield, return and risk in the low interest rate environment. In the Property-Liability portfolio, we increased our
investment in short and intermediate term corporate fixed income securities and reduced our investment in long-duration municipal and corporate bonds and shorter duration U.S. government and agencies.
This positioning, coupled with an increase in floating rate bank loans, has reduced our exposure to rising interest rates. While the dispositions generated net realized capital gains, we expect a
decline in investment income prospectively due to the lower yield on the reinvestment of proceeds. We reduced our investments in ARS through dispositions. The carrying value of RMBS and CMBS declined
due to the receipt of principal payments during the year. We also increased our real estate and limited partnership interests, consistent with our strategy to have a greater proportion of ownership of
assets and equity investments.   

            Fixed income securities    by type are listed in the following table.   

As
of December 31, 2013, 89.4% of the consolidated fixed income securities portfolio was rated investment grade, which is defined as a security having a rating of Aaa, Aa, A or
Baa from Moody's, a rating of AAA, AA, A or BBB from S P, Fitch, Dominion, Kroll or Realpoint, a rating of aaa, aa, a or bbb from A.M. Best, or a comparable internal rating if an externally
provided rating is not available. All of our fixed income securities are rated by third party credit rating agencies, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, and/or are internally rated.
Our initial investment decisions and ongoing monitoring procedures for fixed income securities are based on a thorough due diligence process which includes, but is not limited to, an assessment of the
credit quality, sector, structure, and liquidity risks of each issue.   

  85  

Table of Contents    

         The following table summarizes the fair value and unrealized net capital gains and losses for fixed income securities by credit rating as of December 31,
2013.   

Municipal bonds   , including tax exempt and taxable securities, totaled $8.72 billion as of December 31, 2013 with an
unrealized net capital gain of $277 million. The municipal bond portfolio includes general obligations of state and local issuers and revenue bonds (including pre-refunded bonds, which are
bonds for which an irrevocable trust has been established to fund the remaining payments of principal and interest).   

  86  

Table of Contents   

The
following table summarizes by state the fair value, amortized cost and credit rating of our municipal bonds, excluding $646 million of pre-refunded bonds, as of
December 31, 2013.   

(1)     The
nature of the activities supporting revenue bonds is highly diversified and includes transportation, health care, industrial development,
housing, higher education, utilities, recreation/convention centers and other activities.    

Our
practice for acquiring and monitoring municipal bonds is predominantly based on the underlying credit quality of the primary obligor. We currently rely on the primary obligor to pay
all contractual cash flows and are not relying on bond insurers for payments. As a result of downgrades in the insurers' credit ratings, the ratings of the insured municipal bonds generally reflect
the underlying ratings of the primary obligor. As of December 31, 2013, 99.5% of our insured municipal bond portfolio is rated investment grade.   

            Corporate bonds   , including publicly traded and privately placed, totaled $40.60 billion as of December 31, 2013, with an
unrealized net capital gain of $1.27 billion. Privately placed securities primarily consist of corporate issued senior debt securities that are directly negotiated with the borrower or are in
unregistered form.   

         Our
$10.57 billion portfolio of privately placed securities is broadly diversified by issuer, industry sector and country. The portfolio is made up of 442 issuers. Privately
placed corporate obligations contain structural security features such as financial covenants and call protections that provide investors greater protection against credit deterioration, reinvestment
risk or fluctuations in interest rates than those typically found in publicly registered debt securities. Additionally, investments in these securities are made after due diligence of the issuer,
typically including direct discussions with senior management and on-site visits to company facilities. Ongoing monitoring includes direct periodic dialog with senior management of the issuer and
continuous monitoring of operating performance and financial position. Every issue not rated by an independent rating agency is internally rated with a formal rating affirmation at least once a year.   

            Foreign government    securities totaled $1.82 billion as of December 31, 2013, with 100% rated investment grade and an
unrealized net capital gain of $88 million. Of these securities, 50.2% are in Canadian governmental and provincial securities (41.3% of which are held by our Canadian companies), 20.6% are
backed by the U.S. government and the remaining 29.2% are highly diversified in other foreign governments.   

ABS, RMBS and CMBS    are structured securities that are primarily collateralized by consumer or corporate borrowings and residential and
commercial real estate loans. The cash flows from the underlying collateral paid to the securitization trust are generally applied in a pre-determined order and are designed so that each security
issued by the trust, typically referred to as a "class", qualifies for a specific original rating. For example, the "senior" portion or "top" of the capital structure, or rating class, which would
originally qualify for a rating of Aaa typically has priority in receiving principal repayments on the underlying collateral and retains this priority until the class is paid in full. In a sequential
structure, underlying collateral principal repayments are directed to the most senior rated Aaa class in the structure until paid in full, after which principal repayments are directed to the next
most senior Aaa class in the structure until it is paid in full. Senior Aaa classes generally share any losses from the underlying collateral on a pro-rata basis after losses are absorbed by classes
with lower original ratings. The payment priority and class subordination included in these securities serves as credit enhancement for holders of the senior or top portions of the structures. These
securities continue to retain the payment priority features that existed at the origination of the securitization trust. Other forms of   

  87  

Table of Contents   

  credit
enhancement may include structural features embedded in the securitization trust, such as overcollateralization, excess spread and bond insurance. The underlying collateral can have fixed
interest rates, variable interest rates (such as adjustable rate mortgages) or may contain features of both fixed and variable rate mortgages.   

            ABS   , including CDO and Consumer and other ABS, totaled $4.52 billion as of December 31, 2013, with 96.1% rated investment
grade and an unrealized net capital gain of $27 million. Credit risk is managed by monitoring the performance of the underlying collateral. Many of the securities in the ABS portfolio have
credit enhancement with features such as overcollateralization, subordinated structures, reserve funds, guarantees and/or insurance.   

         CDO
totaled $1.22 billion as of December 31, 2013, with 87.8% rated investment grade and an unrealized net capital loss of $14 million. CDO consist of obligations
collateralized by cash flow CDO, which are structures collateralized primarily by below investment grade senior secured corporate loans.   

         Consumer
and other ABS totaled $3.30 billion as of December 31, 2013, with 99.1% rated investment grade. Consumer and other ABS consists of $1.24 billion of consumer
auto and $2.06 billion of other ABS with unrealized net capital gains of $4 million and $37 million, respectively.   

            RMBS    totaled $1.47 billion as of December 31, 2013, with 38.5% rated investment grade and an unrealized net capital gain of
$71 million. The RMBS portfolio is subject to interest rate risk, but unlike other fixed income securities, is additionally subject to significant prepayment risk from the underlying
residential mortgage loans. RMBS consists of a U.S. Agency portfolio having collateral issued or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies and a non-agency portfolio consisting of securities
collateralized by Prime, Alt-A and Subprime loans. The non-agency portfolio totaled $1.07 billion as of December 31, 2013, with 14.8% rated investment grade and an unrealized net capital
gain of $56 million.   

            CMBS    totaled $829 million as of December 31, 2013, with 69.8% rated investment grade and an unrealized net capital gain of
$41 million. The CMBS portfolio is subject to credit risk and has a sequential paydown structure. Of the CMBS investments, 93.6% are traditional conduit transactions collateralized by
commercial mortgage loans, broadly diversified across property types and geographical area. The remainder consists of non-traditional CMBS such as small balance transactions, large loan pools and
single borrower transactions.   

          Equity securities       Equity securities primarily include common stocks, exchange traded and mutual funds, non-redeemable preferred stocks and
real
estate investment trust equity investments. The equity securities portfolio was $5.10 billion as of December 31, 2013, with an unrealized net capital gain of $624 million.   

           Mortgage loans       Our mortgage loan portfolio, which is primarily held in the Allstate Financial portfolio, totaled
$4.72 billion as of December 31, 2013 and primarily comprises loans secured by first mortgages on developed commercial real estate. Key considerations used to manage our exposure include
property type and geographic diversification. For further detail on our mortgage loan portfolio, see Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements.   

            Limited partnership interests    consist of investments in private equity/debt funds, real estate funds, tax credit funds and other funds.
The limited partnership interests portfolio is well diversified across a number of characteristics including fund managers, vintage years, strategies, geography (including international), and
company/property types. The following table presents information about our limited partnership interests as of December 31, 2013.   

(1)     Includes
$526 million of infrastructure and real asset funds.    

88  

Table of Contents    

         The following tables show the earnings from our limited partnership interests by fund type and accounting classification for the years ended December 31.   

Limited
partnership interests produced income, excluding impairment write-downs, of $541 million in 2013 compared to $348 million in 2012. Higher EMA limited partnership
income resulted from favorable equity and real estate valuations which increased the carrying value of the partnerships, while cost method limited partnerships experienced an increase in earnings
distributed by the partnerships. Income on EMA limited partnerships is recognized on a delay due to the availability of the related financial statements. The recognition of income on private
equity/debt funds, real estate funds and tax credit funds are generally on a three month delay and the income recognition on other funds is primarily on a one month delay. Income on cost method
limited partnerships is recognized only upon receipt of amounts distributed by the partnerships.   

           Short-term investments       Our short-term investment portfolio was $2.39 billion as of December 31, 2013.   

           Other investments       Our other investments as of December 31, 2013 primarily comprise $919 million of policy loans, $1.24 billion
of bank loans, $341 million of agent loans and $269 million of certain derivatives. For further detail on our use of derivatives, see Note 8 of the consolidated financial
statements.   

            Unrealized net capital gains    totaled $2.70 billion as of December 31, 2013 compared to $5.55 billion as of
December 31, 2012. The decline for fixed income securities was primarily due to increasing risk-free interest rates and the realization of unrealized net capital gains through sales. The
increase for equity securities was primarily due to positive equity market performance, partially offset by the realization of unrealized net capital gains through sales. The following table presents
unrealized net capital gains and losses as of December 31.   

The
unrealized net capital gain for the fixed income portfolio totaled $1.90 billion and comprised $2.48 billion of gross unrealized gains and $573 million of gross
unrealized losses as of December 31, 2013. This is compared to an unrealized net capital gain for the fixed income portfolio totaling $5.10 billion, comprised of $5.63 billion of
gross unrealized gains and $530 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2012.   

  89  

Table of Contents   

Gross
unrealized gains and losses on fixed income securities by type and sector as of December 31, 2013 are provided in the following table.   

The
consumer goods, utilities, capital goods and banking sectors had the highest concentration of gross unrealized losses in our corporate fixed income securities portfolio as of
December 31, 2013. In general, the gross unrealized losses are principally related to increasing risk-free interest rates or widening credit spreads since the time of initial purchase.   

         The
unrealized net capital gain for the equity portfolio totaled $624 million and comprised $658 million of gross unrealized gains and $34 million of gross
unrealized losses as of December 31, 2013. This is compared to an unrealized net capital gain for the equity portfolio totaling $460 million, comprised of $494 million of gross
unrealized gains and $34 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2012.   

         Gross
unrealized gains and losses on equity securities by sector as of December 31, 2013 are provided in the table below.   

90  

Table of Contents   

         Within
the equity portfolio, the losses were primarily concentrated in emerging market equity funds, the utilities sector and emerging market fixed income funds. The unrealized losses
were company and sector specific. As of December 31, 2013, we have the intent and ability to hold our equity securities with unrealized losses until recovery.   

           Net investment income       The following table presents net investment income for the years ended December 31.   

(1)     Income
from EMA limited partnerships is reported in net investment income in 2013 and 2012 and realized capital gains and losses in 2011.    

Net
investment income decreased 1.7% or $67 million in 2013 compared to 2012, after increasing 1.0% or $39 million in 2012 compared to 2011. The 2013 decrease was primarily
due to lower average investment balances and lower fixed income yields, partially offset by higher limited partnership income and equity dividends, as well as prepayment fee income and litigation
proceeds which together increased 2013 income by a total of $68 million. Higher EMA limited partnership income resulted from favorable equity and real estate valuations which increased the
carrying value of the partnerships, while cost method limited partnerships experienced an increase in earnings distributed by the partnerships. Net investment income in 2013 includes
$264 million relating to investments classified as held for sale for the period from July 17, 2013 to December 31, 2013. The 2012 increase was primarily due to income from limited
partnerships, partially offset by lower average investment balances and lower fixed income yields.   

           Realized capital gains and losses       The following table presents the components of realized capital gains and losses and the related tax effect
for the
years ended December 31.   

(1)     Income
from EMA limited partnerships is reported in net investment income in 2013 and 2012 and realized capital gains and losses in 2011.    

91  

Table of Contents   

            Impairment write-downs   , which includes changes in the mortgage loan valuation allowance, for the years ended December 31 are
presented in the following table.   

Impairment
write-downs on fixed income securities in 2013 were primarily driven by CMBS that experienced deterioration in expected cash flows and municipal bonds impacted by issuer
specific circumstances. Limited partnership write-downs primarily related to cost method limited partnerships that experienced declines in portfolio valuations deemed to be other than temporary.
Equity securities were written down primarily due to the length of time and extent to which fair value was below cost, considering our assessment of the financial condition and near-term and long-term
prospects of the issuer, including relevant industry conditions and trends. The valuation allowance on mortgage loans as of December 31, 2013 decreased compared to December 31, 2012
primarily due to reversals related to loans no longer deemed impaired.   

         Impairment
write-downs on fixed income securities in 2012 were primarily driven by RMBS and CMBS that experienced deterioration in expected cash flows and municipal and corporate fixed
income securities impacted by issuer specific circumstances. Equity securities were written down primarily due to the length of time and extent to which fair value was below cost, considering our
assessment of the financial condition and near-term and long-term prospects of the issuer, including relevant industry conditions and trends.   

Impairment
write-downs in 2011 were primarily driven by RMBS, which experienced deterioration in expected cash flows; investments with commercial real estate exposure, including CMBS,
mortgage loans and municipal bonds, which were impacted by lower real estate valuations or experienced deterioration in expected cash flows; and corporate fixed income securities impacted by issuer
specific circumstances.   

            Change in intent write-downs    were $143 million, $48 million and $100 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
The change in intent write-downs in 2013 were primarily related to the repositioning and ongoing portfolio management of our equity securities. The change in intent write-downs in 2012 were primarily
a result of ongoing comprehensive reviews of our portfolios resulting in write-downs of individually identified investments, primarily RMBS and equity securities. The change in intent write-downs in
2011 were primarily a result of ongoing comprehensive reviews of our portfolios resulting in write-downs of individually identified investments, primarily lower yielding, floating rate RMBS and
municipal bonds, and equity securities.   

            Sales    generated $819 million, $536 million and $1.34 billion of net realized capital gains in 2013, 2012 and 2011,
respectively. The sales in 2013 primarily related to equity securities in connection with portfolio repositioning and ongoing portfolio management and municipal and corporate fixed income securities
in conjunction with reducing our exposure to interest rate risk in the Property-Liability portfolio. The sales in 2012 primarily related to corporate, municipal and U.S. government and agencies fixed
income securities and equity securities in connection with portfolio repositioning. The sales in 2011 were primarily due to $1.11 billion of net gains on sales of corporate, foreign government,
U.S. government, ABS, U.S. Agency and municipal fixed income securities and $202 million of net gains on sales of equity securities.   

            Valuation and settlements of derivative instruments    generated net realized capital losses of $10 million in 2013, net realized
capital gains of $24 million in 2012 and net realized capital losses of $396 million in 2011. The net realized capital losses on derivative instruments in 2013 primarily composed of
losses on equity futures used for risk management due to increases in equity indices and losses on credit default swaps due to the tightening of credit spreads on the underlying credit names. The net
realized capital gains on derivative instruments in 2012 primarily included gains on credit default swaps due to the tightening of credit spreads on the underlying credit names. The net realized
capital losses on derivative instruments in 2011 primarily included losses on interest rate risk management due to decreases in interest rates.   

  92  

Table of Contents   

    MARKET RISK     

         Market risk is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices or currency
exchange rates. Adverse changes to these rates and prices may occur due to changes in fiscal policy, the economic climate, the liquidity of a market or market segment, insolvency or financial distress
of key market makers or participants or changes in market perceptions of credit worthiness and/or risk tolerance. Our primary market risk exposures are to changes in interest rates, credit spreads and
equity prices.   

         The
active management of market risk is integral to our results of operations. We may use the following approaches to manage exposure to market risk within defined tolerance ranges:
1) rebalancing existing asset or liability portfolios, 2) changing the type of investments purchased in the future and 3) using derivative instruments to modify the market risk
characteristics of existing assets and liabilities or assets expected to be purchased. For a more detailed discussion of our use of derivative financial instruments, see Note 8 of the
consolidated financial statements.   

          Overview       In formulating and implementing guidelines for investing funds, we seek to earn returns that enhance our ability to offer competitive
rates
and prices to customers while contributing to attractive and stable profits and long-term capital growth. Accordingly, our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the underlying risks
and product profiles of each business.   

         Investment
policies define the overall framework for managing market and other investment risks, including accountability and controls over risk management activities. Subsidiaries that
conduct investment activities follow policies that have been approved by their respective boards of directors. These investment policies specify the investment limits and strategies that are
appropriate given the liquidity, surplus, product profile and regulatory requirements of the subsidiary. Executive oversight of investment activities is conducted primarily through subsidiaries'
boards of directors and investment committees. For Allstate Financial, its asset-liability management ("ALM") policies further define the overall framework for managing market and investment risks.
ALM focuses on strategies to enhance yields, mitigate market risks and optimize capital to improve profitability and returns for Allstate Financial while factoring in future expected cash requirements
to repay liabilities. Allstate Financial ALM activities follow asset-liability policies that have been approved by their respective boards of directors. These ALM policies specify limits, ranges
and/or targets for investments that best meet Allstate Financial's business objectives in light of its product liabilities.   

We
use quantitative and qualitative market-based approaches to measure, monitor and manage market risk. We evaluate our exposure to market risk through the use of multiple measures
including but not limited to duration, value-at-risk, scenario analysis and sensitivity analysis. Duration measures the price sensitivity of assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates. For
example, if interest rates increase 100 basis points, the fair value of an
asset with a duration of 5 is expected to decrease in value by 5%. Value-at-risk is a statistical estimate of the probability that the change in fair value of a portfolio will exceed a certain amount
over a given time horizon. Scenario analysis estimates the potential changes in the fair value of a portfolio that could occur under different hypothetical market conditions defined by changes to
multiple market risk factors: interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices or currency exchange rates. Sensitivity analysis estimates the potential changes in the fair value of a portfolio that could
occur under different hypothetical shocks to a market risk factor. In general, we establish investment portfolio asset allocation and market risk limits for the Property-Liability and Allstate
Financial businesses based upon a combination of duration, value-at-risk, scenario analysis and sensitivity analysis. The asset allocation limits place restrictions on the total funds that may be
invested within an asset class. Comprehensive day-to-day management of market risk within defined tolerance ranges occurs as portfolio managers buy and sell within their respective markets based upon
the acceptable boundaries established by investment policies. For Allstate Financial, this day-to-day management is integrated with and informed by the activities of the ALM organization. This
integration is intended to result in a prudent, methodical and effective adjudication of market risk and return, conditioned by the unique demands and dynamics of Allstate Financial's product
liabilities and supported by the continuous application of advanced risk technology and analytics.   

         Although
we apply a similar overall philosophy to market risk, the underlying business frameworks and the accounting and regulatory environments differ considerably between the
Property-Liability and Allstate Financial businesses affecting investment decisions and risk parameters.   

            Interest rate risk    is the risk that we will incur a loss due to adverse changes in interest rates relative to the characteristics of our
interest bearing assets and liabilities. This risk arises from many of our primary activities, as we invest substantial funds in interest-sensitive assets and issue interest-sensitive liabilities.
Interest rate risk includes risks related to changes in U.S. Treasury yields and other key risk-free reference yields.   

         We
manage the interest rate risk in our assets relative to the interest rate risk in our liabilities. One of the measures used to quantify this exposure is duration. The difference in
the duration of our assets relative to our liabilities is our   

  93  

Table of Contents   

  duration
gap. To calculate the duration gap between assets and liabilities, we project asset and liability cash flows and calculate their net present value using a risk-free market interest rate
adjusted for credit quality, sector attributes, liquidity and other specific risks. Duration is calculated by revaluing these cash flows at alternative interest rates and determining the percentage
change in aggregate fair value. The cash flows used in this calculation include the expected maturity and repricing characteristics of our derivative financial instruments, all other financial
instruments, and certain other items including unearned premiums, property-liability insurance claims and claims expense reserves, annuity liabilities and other interest-sensitive liabilities. The
projections include assumptions (based upon historical market experience and our experience) that reflect the effect of changing interest rates on the prepayment, lapse, leverage and/or option
features of instruments, where applicable. The preceding assumptions relate primarily to mortgage-backed securities, municipal housing bonds, callable municipal and corporate obligations, and fixed
rate single and flexible premium deferred annuities. Additionally, the calculations include assumptions regarding the renewal of property-liability policies.   

As
of December 31, 2013, the difference between our asset and liability duration was a (0.95) gap compared to a (0.23) gap as of December 31, 2012. A negative duration gap
indicates that the fair value of our liabilities is more
sensitive to interest rate movements than the fair value of our assets, while a positive duration gap indicates that the fair value of our assets is more sensitive to interest rate movements than the
fair value of our liabilities. The Property-Liability segment generally maintains a positive duration gap between its assets and liabilities due to the relatively short duration of auto and homeowners
claims, which are its primary liabilities. The Allstate Financial segment may have a positive or negative duration gap, as the duration of its assets and liabilities vary with its product mix and
investing activity. As of December 31, 2013, Property-Liability had a positive duration gap while Allstate Financial had a negative duration gap.   

         In
the management of investments supporting the Property-Liability business, we adhere to an objective of emphasizing safety of principal and consistency of income within a total return
framework. This approach is designed to ensure our financial strength and stability for paying claims, while maximizing economic value and surplus growth.   

         For
the Allstate Financial business, we seek to invest premiums, contract charges and deposits to generate future cash flows that will fund future claims, benefits and expenses, and that
will earn stable returns across a wide variety of interest rate and economic scenarios. To achieve this objective and limit interest rate risk for Allstate Financial, we adhere to a philosophy of
managing the duration of assets and related liabilities within predetermined tolerance levels. This philosophy is executed using duration targets for fixed income investments in addition to interest
rate swaps, futures, forwards, caps, floors and swaptions to reduce the interest rate risk resulting from mismatches between existing assets and liabilities, and financial futures and other derivative
instruments to hedge the interest rate risk of anticipated purchases and sales of investments and product sales to customers.   

         Based
upon the information and assumptions used in the duration calculation, and interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2013, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate,
parallel increase in interest rates ("rate shock") would increase the net fair value of the assets and liabilities by $826 million, compared to an increase of $211 million as of
December 31, 2012, reflecting year to year changes in duration. The selection of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel change in interest rates should not be construed as our prediction of
future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event. The estimate excludes the traditional and interest-sensitive life insurance products that are not considered
financial instruments and the $13.13 billion of assets supporting them and the associated liabilities. The $13.13 billion of assets excluded from the calculation increased from
$12.04 billion as of December 31, 2012. Based on assumptions described above, in the event of a 100 basis point immediate increase in interest rates, the assets supporting life insurance
products would decrease in value by $753 million, compared to a decrease of $737 million as of December 31, 2012.   

         To
the extent that conditions differ from the assumptions we used in these calculations, duration and rate shock measures could be significantly impacted. Additionally, our calculations
assume that the current relationship between short-term and long-term interest rates (the term structure of interest rates) will remain constant over time. As a result, these calculations may not
fully capture the effect of non-parallel changes in the term structure of interest rates and/or large changes in interest rates.   

Credit spread risk    is the risk that we will incur a loss due to adverse changes in credit spreads ("spreads"). This risk arises from many
of our primary activities, as we invest substantial funds in spread-sensitive fixed income assets.   

         We
manage the spread risk in our assets. One of the measures used to quantify this exposure is spread duration. Spread duration measures the price sensitivity of the assets to changes in
spreads. For example, if spreads
increase 100 basis points, the fair value of an asset exhibiting a spread duration of 5 is expected to decrease in value by 5%.   

  94  

Table of Contents   

         Spread
duration is calculated similarly to interest rate duration. As of December 31, 2013, the spread duration of Property-Liability assets was 3.28, compared to 4.04 as of
December 31, 2012, and the spread duration of Allstate Financial assets was 5.35, compared to 5.85 as of December 31, 2012. Based upon the information and assumptions we use in this
spread duration calculation, and spreads in effect as of December 31, 2013, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase in spreads across all asset classes, industry sectors
and credit ratings ("spread shock") would decrease the net fair value of the assets by $3.46 billion compared to $4.04 billion as of December 31, 2012. Reflected in the duration
calculation are the effects of our tactical actions that use credit default swaps to manage spread risk. The selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel change in spreads should not be construed
as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event.   

            Equity price risk    is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse changes in the general levels of the equity markets. As of
December 31, 2013, we held $5.04 billion in common stocks and exchange traded and mutual funds and $5.02 billion in other securities with equity risk (including primarily limited
partnership interests, non-redeemable preferred securities and equity-linked notes), compared to $3.99 billion and $4.97 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2012. 86.1% and
58.8% of these totals, respectively, represented assets of the Property-Liability operations as of December 31, 2013, compared to 90.8% and 60.2%, respectively, as of December 31, 2012.   

         As
of December 31, 2013, our portfolio of common stocks and other securities with equity risk had a cash market portfolio beta of 1.10, compared to a beta of 0.86 as of
December 31, 2012. Beta represents a widely used methodology to describe, quantitatively, an investment's market risk characteristics relative to an index such as the Standard   Poor's
500 Composite Price Index ("S P 500"). Based on the beta analysis, we estimate that if the S P 500 increases or decreases by 10%, the fair value of our equity investments will increase
or decrease by 11.0%, respectively. Based upon the information and assumptions we used to calculate beta as of December 31, 2013, we estimate that an immediate decrease in the S P 500 of
10% would decrease the net fair value of our equity investments by $1.10 billion, compared to $766 million as of December 31, 2012, and an immediate increase in the S P 500
of 10% would increase the net fair value by $1.10 billion compared to $766 million as of December 31, 2012. The selection of a 10% immediate decrease or increase in the
S P 500 should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event.   

         The
beta of our common stocks and other securities with equity risk was determined by calculating the change in the fair value of the portfolio resulting from stressing the equity market
up and down 10%. The illustrations noted above may not reflect our actual experience if the future composition of the portfolio (hence its beta) and correlation relationships differ from the
historical relationships.   

         As
of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had separate accounts assets, including those classified as held for sale, related to variable annuity and variable life contracts with
account values totaling $6.74 billion and $6.61 billion, respectively. Equity risk exists for contract charges based on separate account balances and guarantees for death
and/or income benefits provided by our variable products. In 2006, we disposed of substantially all of the variable annuity business through reinsurance agreements with The Prudential Insurance
Company of America, a subsidiary of Prudential Financial Inc. and therefore mitigated this aspect of our risk. Equity risk for our variable life business relates to contract charges and
policyholder benefits. Total variable life contract charges for 2013 and 2012 were $67 million and $71 million, respectively. Separate account liabilities related to variable life
contracts were $900 million and $767 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

As
of December 31, 2013 and 2012 we had $3.71 billion and $3.63 billion, respectively, in equity-indexed annuity liabilities that provide customers with interest
crediting rates based on the performance of the S P 500. We hedge the majority of the risk associated with these liabilities using equity-indexed options and futures and eurodollar futures,
maintaining risk within specified value-at-risk limits. $2.26 billion of the December 31, 2013 balance are a component of the pending LBL sale.   

            Foreign currency exchange rate risk    is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in foreign currency exchange
rates. This risk primarily arises from our foreign equity investments, including real estate funds and private equity funds, and our Canadian, Northern Ireland and Indian operations. We also have
investments in certain fixed income securities and emerging market fixed income funds that are denominated in foreign currencies; however, derivatives are used to hedge approximately 29% of this
foreign currency risk.   

         As
of December 31, 2013, we had $1.10 billion in foreign currency denominated equity investments, $878 million net investment in our foreign subsidiaries, and
$330 million in unhedged non-dollar pay fixed income securities. These amounts were $1.11 billion, $858 million, and $548 million, respectively, as of December 31,
2012. 80.9% of the foreign currency exposure is in the Property-Liability business.   

  95  

Table of Contents   

         Based
upon the information and assumptions used as of December 31, 2013, we estimate that a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates to
which we are exposed would decrease the value of our foreign currency denominated instruments by $254 million, compared with an estimated $264 million decrease as of December 31,
2012. The selection of a 10% immediate decrease in all currency exchange rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of
such an event.   

         The
modeling technique we use to report our currency exposure does not take into account correlation among foreign currency exchange rates. Even though we believe it is very unlikely
that all of the foreign currency exchange rates that we are exposed to would simultaneously decrease by 10%, we nonetheless stress test our portfolio under this and other hypothetical extreme adverse
market scenarios. Our actual experience may differ from these results because of assumptions we have used or because significant liquidity and market events could occur that we did not foresee.   

    PENSION PLANS     

         We have defined benefit pension plans, which cover most full-time, certain part-time employees and employee-agents. See Note 18
of the consolidated financial statements for a complete discussion of these plans and their effect on the consolidated financial statements. The pension and other postretirement plans may be amended
or terminated at any time. Any revisions could result in significant changes to our obligations and our obligation to fund the plans.   

We
report unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in
shareholders' equity. It represents the after-tax differences between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation ("PBO") for pension plans and the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation for other postretirement plans that have not yet been recognized as a component of net periodic cost. As of December 31, 2013, it totaled $638 million comprising
$854 million related to pension benefits and $(216) million related to other postretirement benefits. The unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost decreased by
$1.09 billion as of December 31, 2013 from $1.73 billion as of December 31, 2012. The measurement of the unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost can vary
based upon the fluctuations in the fair value of plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for the plans as discussed below. During 2013, we amended our primary pension plans effective
January 1, 2014 to introduce a new cash balance formula to replace the previous formulas (including the final average pay formula and the previous cash balance formula) under which eligible
employees accrue benefits. In addition, during 2013 we eliminated the retiree life insurance benefits effective January 1, 2014 for current eligible employees and effective January 1,
2016 for eligible retirees who retired after 1989. The estimated after-tax developments reducing the unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost
included:  

$397 million due to actuarial assumption and census data updates, including approximately $385 million,
after-tax, due to increases in the discount rate assumptions.          $329 million due to the change in the pension plan benefit formulas.          $180 million due to lump sum settlement charges.          $109 million due to annual amortization.          $68 million due to the elimination of the retiree life benefits for eligible retirees who retired after 1989.  

The
components of net periodic pension cost for all pension plans for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

The
service cost component is the actuarial present value of the benefits attributed by the plans benefit formula to services rendered by the employees during the period. Interest cost
is the increase in the PBO in the period due to the passage of time at the discount rate. Interest cost fluctuates as the discount rate changes and is also impacted by the related change in the size
of the PBO. The decrease or increase in the PBO due to an increase or decrease in the discount rate is deferred and decreases or increases the net actuarial loss. It is recorded in accumulated other
comprehensive income as unrecognized pension benefit cost and may be amortized.   

  96  

Table of Contents    

         The expected return on plan assets is determined as the product of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the adjusted fair value of plan
assets, referred to as the market-related value of plan assets. To determine the market-related value, the fair value of plan assets is adjusted annually so that differences between changes in the
fair value of equity securities and hedge fund limited partnerships and the expected long-term rate of return on these securities are recognized into the market-related value of plan assets over a
five year period. We believe this is consistent with the long-term nature of pension obligations.   

When
the actual return on plan assets exceeds the expected return on plan assets it reduces the net actuarial loss; when the expected return exceeds the actual return it increases the
net actuarial loss. It is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income as unrecognized pension benefit cost and may be amortized. The market-related value adjustment represents the current
difference between actual returns and expected returns on equity securities and hedge fund limited partnerships recognized over a five year period. The market-related value adjustment is a deferred
net gain of $19 million as of December 31, 2013. The expected return on plan assets fluctuates when the market-related value of plan assets changes and when the expected long-term rate
of return on plan assets assumption changes.   

         Amortization
of net actuarial loss in pension cost is recorded when the net actuarial loss including the unamortized market-related value adjustment exceeds 10% of the greater of the PBO
or the market-related value of plan assets. The amount of amortization is equal to the excess divided by the average remaining service period for active employees for each plan, which approximates
9 years for Allstate's largest plan. As a result, the effect of changes in the PBO due to changes in the discount rate and changes in the fair value of plan assets may be experienced in our net
periodic pension cost in periods subsequent to those in which the fluctuations actually occur.   

Net
actuarial loss fluctuates as the discount rate fluctuates, as the actual return on plan assets differ from the expected long-term rate of return on plans assets, and as actual plan
experience differs from other actuarial assumptions. Net actuarial loss related to changes in the discount rate will change when interest rates change and from amortization of net actuarial loss when
there is an excess sufficient to qualify for amortization. Net actuarial loss related to changes in the fair value of plan assets will change when plan assets change in fair value and when there is an
excess sufficient to qualify for amortization. Other net actuarial loss will change over time due to changes in other valuation assumptions and the plan participants or when there is an excess
sufficient to qualify for amortization.   

         An
increase in the discount rate decreased the net actuarial loss by $593 million in 2013 and a decrease in the discount rate increased the net actuarial loss by
$806 million and $407 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively. The difference between actual and expected returns on plan assets (decreased) increased the net actuarial loss by
$(172) million, $(201) million, and $100 million in 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.   

         Settlement
charges are non-cash charges that accelerate the recognition of unrecognized pension benefit cost, that would have been incurred in subsequent periods, when plan payments
primarily lump sums from qualified pension plans, exceed a threshold of service and interest cost for the period. The value of lump sums paid to employees electing retirement in 2013 was elevated due
to historically low interest rates. Voluntary retirement activity during the fourth quarter was almost five times the typical level. Of the $180 million settlement charges, after-tax,
$150 million were reported in the Corporate and Other Segment, since the Corporation is the plan sponsor for the employee pension plans.   

         Net
periodic pension cost in 2014 is estimated to be $55 million including expected settlement charges of $44 million primarily for agent lump sum payments. Expected
returns on plan assets and amortization of prior service credits offset the other components of pension cost. Over half of the $440 million decrease from pension cost of $495 million in
2013 is due to a decline of $233 million in expected settlement charges. The remainder is due to lower amortization of net actuarial loss, lower service cost and interest cost, and a higher
amortization of prior service credit as a result of the change in plan benefit formulas. Pension expense is reported consistent with other types of employee compensation and as a result is included in
claims expense, operating costs and expenses and investment expense. Employee plan settlement charges are reported in the Corporate and other segment because the Corporation is the plan sponsor. Net
periodic pension cost increased in 2013 compared to $266 million in 2012 due to an increase in the amortization expense for prior year's net actuarial losses (gain) which increased due to a
lower discount rate used to value the pension plans. Net periodic pension cost decreased in 2012 compared to $304 million in 2011 primarily due to an increase in the expected return on plan
assets, a lower discount rate used to value the pension plans and a decrease in settlement charges partially offset by increased amortization of net actuarial loss (gain). In 2013, 2012 and 2011, net
pension cost included non-cash settlement charges primarily resulting from lump sum distributions. Settlement charges are likely to continue for some period in the future as we settle our remaining
agent pension obligations by making lump sum distributions to agents.   

  97  

Table of Contents   

         Unrecognized
pension benefit cost, pre-tax, has primarily resulted from changes in the discount rates and asset returns differing from expected returns. As of December 31, 2013,
the discount rate increased to 5.0% following a decline over the last five years from 7.5%, due to the decline in the weighted average yields of the investments that qualify for consideration to
establish the assumption for the discount rate. Also, plan assets sustained net losses in 2008 primarily due to declines in equity and credit markets.   

         We
anticipate that the net actuarial loss for our pension plans will exceed 10% of the greater of the PBO or the market-related value of assets in 2014 and into the foreseeable future,
resulting in additional amortization and net periodic pension cost. The net actuarial loss will be amortized over the remaining service life of active employees (approximately 9 years) or will
reverse with increases in the discount rate or better than expected returns on plan assets.   

         Amounts
recorded for net periodic pension cost and accumulated other comprehensive income are significantly affected by changes in the assumptions used to determine the discount rate and
the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The discount rate is based on rates at which expected pension benefits attributable to past employee service could effectively be settled on a
present value basis at the measurement date. We develop the assumed discount rate by utilizing the weighted average yield of a theoretical dedicated portfolio derived from non-callable bonds and bonds
with a make-whole provision available in the Bloomberg corporate bond universe having ratings of at least "AA" by S P or at least "Aa" by Moody's on the measurement date with cash flows that match
expected plan benefit requirements. Significant changes in discount rates, such as those caused by changes in the credit spreads, yield curve, the mix of bonds available in the market, the duration of
selected bonds and expected benefit payments, may result in volatility in pension cost and accumulated other comprehensive income.   

         Holding
other assumptions constant, a hypothetical decrease of 100 basis points in the discount rate would result in an increase of $39 million in net periodic pension cost and a
$379 million increase in the unrecognized pension cost liability recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2013, compared to an increase of $51 million
in net periodic pension cost and a $503 million increase in the unrecognized pension cost liability as of December 31, 2012. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in the discount
rate would decrease net periodic pension cost by $35 million and would decrease the unrecognized pension cost liability recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income by $322 million
as of December 31, 2013, compared to a decrease in net periodic pension cost of $45 million and a $421 million decrease in the unrecognized pension cost liability recorded as
accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2012. This non-symmetrical range results from the non-linear relationship between discount rates and pension obligations, and changes
in the amortization of unrealized net actuarial gains and losses.   

         The
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected on plan assets. While this rate reflects long-term assumptions and is consistent with
long-term historical returns, sustained changes in the market or changes in the mix of plan assets may lead to revisions in the assumed long-term rate of return on plan assets that may result in
variability of pension cost. Differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets are a component of net actuarial loss and are recorded in
accumulated other comprehensive income.   

         Holding
other assumptions constant, a hypothetical decrease of 100 basis points in the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would result in an increase of $55 million
in pension cost as of December 31, 2013, compared to $51 million as of December 31, 2012. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in the expected long-term rate of return on
plan assets would result in a decrease in net periodic pension cost of $55 million as of December 31, 2013, compared to $51 million as of December 31, 2012.   

         We
target funding levels in accordance with regulations under the Internal Revenue Code ("IRC") and generally accepted actuarial principles. Our funding levels were within our targeted
range as of December 31, 2013. In 2013, we contributed $561 million to our pension plans. We expect to contribute $38 million for the 2014 fiscal year to maintain the plans'
funded status. This estimate could change significantly following either an improvement or decline in investment markets.   

    GOODWILL     

         Goodwill represents the excess of amounts paid for acquiring businesses over the fair value of the net assets acquired. The goodwill
balances were $825 million and $418 million as of December 31, 2013 for the Allstate Protection segment and the Allstate Financial segment, respectively. Our reporting units are
equivalent to our reporting segments, Allstate Protection and Allstate Financial. Goodwill is allocated to reporting units based on which unit is expected to benefit from the synergies of the business
combination.   

  98  

Table of Contents   

         Goodwill
is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually. We perform our annual goodwill impairment testing during the fourth quarter of each year based upon data as of
the close of the third quarter. We also review goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as deteriorating or adverse market conditions, indicate that it is more likely
than not that the carrying amount of goodwill may exceed its implied fair value.   

         Impairment
testing requires the use of estimates and judgments. For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value,
the second step of the goodwill test is required. In such instances, the implied fair value of the goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill that would be determined in a
business acquisition. The excess of the carrying value of goodwill over the implied fair value of goodwill would be recognized as an impairment and recorded as a charge against net income.   

To
estimate the fair value of our reporting units for our annual impairment test, we initially utilize a stock price and market capitalization analysis and apportion the value between
our reporting units using peer company price to book multiples. If the stock price and market capitalization analysis does not result in the fair value of the reporting unit exceeding its carrying
value, we may also utilize a peer company price to earnings multiples analysis and/or a discounted cash flow analysis to supplement the stock price and market capitalization analysis.
If a combination of valuation techniques are utilized, the analyses would be weighted based on management's judgment of their relevance given current facts and circumstances.   

The
stock price and market capitalization analysis takes into consideration the quoted market price of our outstanding common stock and includes a control premium, derived from
historical insurance industry acquisition activity, in determining the estimated fair value of the consolidated entity before allocating that fair value to individual reporting units. The total market
capitalization of the consolidated entity is allocated to the individual reporting units using book value multiples derived from peer company data for the respective reporting units. The peer company
price to earnings multiples analysis takes into consideration the price earnings multiples of peer companies for each reporting unit and estimated income from our strategic plan. The discounted cash
flow analysis utilizes long term assumptions for revenue growth, capital growth, earnings projections including those used in our strategic plan, and an appropriate discount rate. We apply significant
judgment when determining the fair value of our reporting units and when assessing the relationship of market capitalization to the estimated fair value of our reporting units. The valuation analyses
described above are subject to critical judgments and assumptions and may be potentially sensitive to variability. Estimates of fair value are inherently uncertain and represent management's
reasonable expectation regarding future developments. These estimates and the judgments and assumptions utilized may differ from future actual results. Declines in the estimated fair value of our
reporting units could result in goodwill impairments in future periods which may be material to our results of operations but not our financial position.   

During
fourth quarter 2013, we completed our annual goodwill impairment test using information as of September 30, 2013. The stock price and market capitalization analysis
resulted in the fair value of our reporting units exceeding their respective carrying values. The results of this analysis are supported by the operating performance of the individual reporting units
as well as their respective industry sector's performance. Goodwill impairment evaluations indicated no impairment as of December 31, 2013 and no reporting unit was at risk of having its
carrying value including goodwill exceed its fair value.   

    CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY 2013 HIGHLIGHTS     

Shareholders' equity as of December 31, 2013 was $21.48 billion, an increase of 4.4% from
$20.58 billion as of December 31, 2012.          On April 1, 2013, July 1, 2013, and October 1, 2013, we paid common shareholder dividends of $0.25
each. On November 19, 2013, we declared a common shareholder dividend of $0.25 to be payable on January 2, 2014. On February 19, 2014, we declared a common shareholder dividend of
$0.28 to be payable on April 1, 2014.          On October 15, 2013, we paid a dividend on our 5.625% preferred stock for the dividend period from June 12,
2013 through October 14, 2013. On November 19, 2013, we declared dividends on our 5.625% preferred stock for the dividend period from October 15, 2013 through January 14,
2014 to be payable on January 15, 2014 and our 6.75% preferred stock for the dividend period from September 30, 2013 through January 14, 2014 to be payable on January 15,
2014. On February 19, 2014, we declared dividends on our 5.625% and 6.75% preferred stock for the dividend period from January 15, 2014 through April 14, 2014 to be payable on
April 15, 2014 and our 6.625% preferred stock for the dividend period from December 16, 2013 through April 14, 2014 to be payable on April 15, 2014.          During 2013, we
repurchased 37.4 million common shares for $1.84 billion. As of December 31, 2013,
there was $139 million remaining on our common share repurchase programs which was completed in February 2014. In    
  99  

Table of Contents   

February
2014, a new $2.5 billion common share repurchase program was authorized and is expected to be completed by August 2015.   

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY     

            Capital resources    consist of shareholders' equity and debt, representing funds deployed
or available to be deployed to support business operations or for general corporate purposes. The following table summarizes our capital resources as of December 31.   

Shareholders' equity    increased in 2013, primarily due to net income, decreased unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost
from increasing the discount rate, changes in plan benefits and settlements charges reducing the plan's benefit obligations, and the issuance of preferred stock, partially offset by common share
repurchases, decreased unrealized net capital gains on investments and dividends paid to shareholders. Shareholders' equity increased in 2012, primarily due to net income and increased unrealized net
capital gains on investments, partially offset by common share repurchases and dividends paid to shareholders.   

           Preferred stock       On June 12, 2013, we issued 11,500 shares of 5.625% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock for gross proceeds of
$287.5 million. The proceeds of this issuance were used to fund the repurchase of debt and for general corporate purposes. On September 30, 2013, we issued 15,400 shares of 6.75%
Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock for gross proceeds of $385 million. The proceeds of this issuance were used for general corporate purposes, including to prefund the repayment of debt
maturing in 2014. In December 2013, we issued 5,400 shares of 6.625% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock for gross proceeds of $135 million. The proceeds of this issuance were used for
general corporate purposes.   

           Debt       On January 10, 2013, we issued $500 million of 5.10% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Subordinated Debentures due 2053. The proceeds of
this
issuance were used for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of our common stock through open market purchases and through the accelerated repurchase program entered into on
February 28, 2013. On June 7, 2013, we issued $500 million of 3.15% Senior Notes due 2023 and $500 million of 4.50% Senior Notes due 2043. The proceeds of this issuance
were used to fund the repurchase of debt and for general corporate purposes. In June 2013, we issued $500 million of commercial paper with the proceeds used to fund the repurchase of debt. On
August 8, 2013, we issued $800 million of 5.75% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Subordinated Debentures due 2053. The proceeds of this issuance were used for the repayment of the commercial paper
borrowings, to fund the repurchase of debt, for the repurchase of our common stock in open market purchases, and for general corporate purposes.   

         On
June 20, 2013, we repurchased principal amounts of $1.83 billion of debt and recognized a loss on extinguishment of $480 million, pre-tax, representing the excess
of the repurchase price over the principal repaid, the write-off of the unamortized debt issuance costs and other costs related to the repurchase transaction. During third and fourth quarter 2013, we
repurchased principal amounts of $73 million of debt and recognized a loss on extinguishment of $11 million, pre-tax, representing the excess of the repurchase price over the principal
repaid and the write-off of the unamortized debt issuance costs.   

         The
next debt maturities are on May 16, 2014 when $300 million of 6.20% Senior Notes are due and August 15, 2014 when $650 million of 5.00% Senior Notes are
due and which are expected to be paid from available funds. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, there were no outstanding commercial paper borrowings. For further information on outstanding debt,
see Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements.   

         During
2014, we may execute additional issuances of perpetual preferred stock for general corporate purposes.   

           Common share repurchases       In July 2013, our $1.00 billion common share repurchase program that commenced in December 2012 was completed.
As of
December 31, 2013, our $1.00 billion common share repurchase program that   

  100  

Table of Contents   

  was
authorized in February 2013 had $139 million remaining which was completed in February 2014. On February 28, 2013, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with
Barclays Bank PLC ("Barclays") and Barclays Capital Inc., as Barclays' agent, to purchase $500 million of our outstanding common stock. The accelerated share repurchase agreement
settled on June 6, 2013. During 2013, we repurchased 37.4 million common shares for $1.84 billion. In February 2014, a new $2.5 billion common share repurchase program was
authorized and is expected to be completed by August 2015.   

         Since
1995, we have acquired 561 million shares of our common stock at a cost of $23.01 billion, primarily as part of various stock repurchase programs. We have reissued
112 million common shares since 1995, primarily associated with our equity incentive plans, the 1999 acquisition of American Heritage Life Investment Corporation and the 2001 redemption of
certain mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. Since 1995, total common shares outstanding has decreased by 451 million shares or 50.1%, primarily due to our repurchase programs.   

Financial ratings and strength       The following table summarizes our senior long-term debt, commercial paper and insurance financial strength
ratings as
of December 31, 2013.   

Moody's    
     
   Standard   
Poor's    
     
   A.M. Best    

The Allstate Corporation (senior long-term debt)  
     
  A3  
     
  A-  
     
  a-  

The Allstate Corporation (commercial paper)  
     
  P-2  
     
  A-2  
     
  AMB-1  

Allstate Insurance Company (insurance financial strength)  
     
  Aa3  
     
  AA-  
     
  A+  

Allstate Life Insurance Company (insurance financial strength)  
     
  A1  
     
  A+  
     
  A+  

Our
ratings are influenced by many factors including our operating and financial performance, asset quality, liquidity, asset/liability management, overall portfolio mix, financial
leverage (i.e., debt), exposure to risks such as catastrophes and the current level of operating leverage.   

         In
January 2014, A.M. Best affirmed The Allstate Corporation's debt and commercial paper ratings of a- and AMB-1, respectively, and our insurance entities financial strength
ratings of A+ for AIC and Allstate Life Insurance Company ("ALIC"). The outlook for AIC and ALIC remained stable. In April 2013, Moody's affirmed The Allstate Corporation's debt and commercial paper
ratings of A3 and P-2, respectively, AIC's financial strength ratings of Aa3 and ALIC's financial strength rating of A1. The outlook for all Moody's ratings was revised to stable from negative. In May
2013, S P affirmed The Allstate Corporation's debt and commercial paper ratings of A- and A-2, respectively, AIC's financial strength ratings of AA- and ALIC's financial strength rating of A+. The
outlook for all S P ratings was revised to stable from negative. The affirmation was based in part on the expectation that capital will be maintained within S P's guideline. In the future, if our
financial position is less than rating agency
expectations including those related to capitalization at the parent company, AIC or ALIC, we could be exposed to a downgrade in our ratings which we do not view as being material to our business
model or strategies.   

         We
have distinct and separately capitalized groups of subsidiaries licensed to sell property and casualty insurance in New Jersey and Florida that maintain separate group ratings. The
ratings of these groups are influenced by the risks that relate specifically to each group. Many mortgage companies require property owners to have insurance from an insurance carrier with a secure
financial strength rating from an accredited rating agency. On February 12, 2014, A.M. Best affirmed the Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company, which writes auto and homeowners
insurance, rating of A-. The outlook for this rating is stable. Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company also has a Financial Stability Rating  of A" from Demotech, which was affirmed on
November 22, 2013. On August 29, 2013, A.M. Best affirmed the Castle Key Insurance Company, which underwrites personal lines property insurance in Florida, rating of B-. The
outlook for the rating is negative. Castle Key Insurance Company also has a Financial Stability Rating  of A' from Demotech, which was affirmed on November 22, 2013.   

         Subsequent
to the announcement of the pending sale of LBL, the rating agencies initiated reviews of LBL's ratings and outlook. Moody's downgraded LBL from A1 to Baa1 and
revised the rating outlook from stable to negative. Both the rating and outlook will be finalized after the transaction closes. S P downgraded LBL from A+ to BBB+ and placed LBL on CreditWatch
negative. Both the rating and CreditWatch will be finalized after the transaction closes. A.M. Best placed LBL's rating under review with negative implications, pending a final
determination on both the rating and outlook after the transaction closes. The Moody's, S P and A.M. Best ratings and outlook of ALIC are unaffected by the sale of LBL.   

         ALIC,
AIC and The Allstate Corporation are party to the Amended and Restated Intercompany Liquidity Agreement ("Liquidity Agreement") which allows for short-term advances of funds to be
made between parties for liquidity and   

  101  

Table of Contents   

  other
general corporate purposes. The Liquidity Agreement does not establish a commitment to advance funds on the part of any party. ALIC and AIC each serve as a lender and borrower and the
Corporation serves only as a lender. AIC also has a capital support agreement with ALIC. Under the capital support agreement, AIC is committed to provide capital to ALIC to maintain an adequate
capital level. The maximum amount of potential funding under each of these agreements is $1.00 billion. On March 22, 2013, the Corporation advanced $500 million to AIC under the
Liquidity Agreement to facilitate investing activity. This amount was repaid on June 7, 2013.   

         In
addition to the Liquidity Agreement, the Corporation also has an intercompany loan agreement with certain of its subsidiaries, which include, but are not limited to, AIC and ALIC. The
amount of intercompany loans available to the Corporation's subsidiaries is at the discretion of the Corporation. The maximum amount of loans the Corporation will have outstanding to all its eligible
subsidiaries at any given point in time is limited to $1.00 billion. The Corporation may use commercial paper borrowings, bank lines of credit and securities lending to fund intercompany
borrowings.   

         Allstate's
domestic property-liability and life insurance subsidiaries prepare their statutory-basis financial statements in conformity with accounting practices prescribed or permitted
by the insurance department of the
applicable state of domicile. Statutory surplus is a measure that is often used as a basis for determining dividend paying capacity, operating leverage and premium growth capacity, and it is also
reviewed by rating agencies in determining their ratings. As of December 31, 2013, total statutory surplus is $18.28 billion compared to $17.28 billion as of December 31,
2012. Property-Liability surplus was $15.26 billion as of December 31, 2013, compared to $13.74 billion as of December 31, 2012. Allstate Financial surplus was
$3.02 billion as of December 31, 2013, compared to $3.54 billion as of December 31, 2012.   

         The
ratio of net premiums written to statutory surplus is a common measure of operating leverage used in the property-casualty insurance industry and serves as an indicator of a
company's premium growth capacity. Ratios in excess of 3 to 1 are typically considered outside the usual range by insurance regulators and rating agencies, and for homeowners and related coverages
that have significant net exposure to natural catastrophes a ratio of 1 to 1 is considered appropriate. AIC's combined premium to surplus ratio was 1.5x as of December 31, 2013 compared to 1.6x
as of December 31, 2012.   

         The
National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") has also developed a set of financial relationships or tests known as the Insurance Regulatory Information System to assist
state regulators in monitoring the financial condition of insurance companies and identifying companies that require special attention or actions by insurance regulatory authorities. The NAIC analyzes
financial data provided by insurance companies using prescribed ratios, each with defined "usual ranges". Generally, regulators will begin to monitor an insurance company if its ratios fall outside
the usual ranges for four or more of the ratios. If an insurance company has insufficient capital, regulators may act to reduce the amount of insurance it can issue. Our domestic insurance companies
have no significant departure from these ranges.   

          Liquidity sources and uses       Our potential sources of funds principally include activities shown in the following table.   

Property- 
Liability    
     
   Allstate 
Financial    
     
   Corporate 
and Other    

Receipt of insurance premiums  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Contractholder fund deposits  

X  

Reinsurance recoveries  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Receipts of principal, interest and dividends on investments  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Sales of investments  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Funds from securities lending, commercial paper and line of credit agreements  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Intercompany loans  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Capital contributions from parent  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Dividends from subsidiaries  
     
  X  

X  

Tax refunds/settlements  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Funds from periodic issuance of additional securities  

X  

Receipt of intercompany settlements related to employee benefit plans  

X  

102  

Table of Contents   

         Our
potential uses of funds principally include activities shown in the following table.   

Property- 
Liability    
     
   Allstate 
Financial    
     
   Corporate 
and Other    

Payment of claims and related expenses  
     
  X  

Payment of contract benefits, maturities, surrenders and withdrawals  

X  

Reinsurance cessions and payments  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Operating costs and expenses  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Purchase of investments  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Repayment of securities lending, commercial paper and line of credit agreements  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Payment or repayment of intercompany loans  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Capital contributions to subsidiaries  
     
  X  

X  

Dividends to shareholders/parent company  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Tax payments/settlements  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Common share repurchases  

X  

Debt service expenses and repayment  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Payments related to employee and agent benefit plans  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

We
actively manage our financial position and liquidity levels in light of changing market, economic, and business conditions. Liquidity is managed at both the entity and enterprise
level across the Company, and is assessed on both base and stressed level liquidity needs. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet these needs. Additionally, we have existing intercompany
agreements in place that facilitate liquidity management across the Company to enhance flexibility.   

Parent company capital capacity       At the parent holding company level, we have deployable assets totaling $2.56 billion as of
December 31, 2013 comprising cash and investments that are generally saleable within one quarter. The substantial earnings capacity of the operating subsidiaries is the primary source of
capital generation for the Corporation. In 2014, AIC will have the capacity to pay dividends currently estimated at $2.47 billion without prior regulatory approval. In addition, we have access
to $1.00 billion of funds from either commercial paper issuance or an unsecured revolving credit facility. This provides funds for the parent company's fixed charges and other corporate
purposes.   

         In
2013, AIC paid dividends totaling $1.95 billion to its parent, Allstate Insurance Holdings, LLC ("AIH") who then paid the same amount of dividends to the Corporation. In
2012, AIC paid dividends totaling $1.51 billion. These dividends comprised $1.06 billion in cash paid to AIH, of which $1.04 billion were paid by AIH to the Corporation, and the
transfer of ownership (valued at $450 million) to AIH of three insurance companies that were formerly subsidiaries of AIC (Allstate Indemnity Company, Allstate Fire and Casualty Insurance
Company and Allstate Property and Casualty Insurance Company). In 2011, dividends totaling $838 million were paid by AIC to the Corporation. There were no capital contributions paid by the
Corporation to AIC in 2013, 2012 or 2011. There were
no capital contributions by AIC to ALIC in 2013, 2012 or 2011. In 2013 and 2012, Allstate Financial paid $774 million and $357 million, respectively, of return of capital, repayment of
surplus notes and dividends to the Corporation and other affiliates.   

         The
sale of LBL is expected to generate deployable capital of approximately $1 billion. As allowed by regulatory authorities and subject to dividend limitations and approvals the
capital may be returned to AIC. The $1 billion includes the estimated gain on the sale on a statutory-basis of accounting in the range of approximately $350 million to
$400 million and the release of risk-based capital. During 2014, ALIC will not be able to pay dividends to AIC without prior Illinois Department of Insurance approval.   

No
dividends may be paid or declared on our common stock and no shares of common stock may be repurchased unless the full dividends for the latest completed dividend period on our
preferred stock have been declared and paid or provided for. We are prohibited from declaring or paying dividends on our preferred stock if we fail to meet specified capital adequacy, net income or
shareholders' equity levels, except out of the net proceeds of common stock issued during the 90 days prior to the date of declaration. As of December 31, 2013, we satisfied all of the
tests, with no current restrictions on the payment of preferred stock dividends.   

         The
terms of our outstanding subordinated debentures also prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on our common or preferred stock or redeeming, purchasing,
acquiring, or making liquidation payments on our common stock or preferred stock if we have elected to defer interest payments on the subordinated debentures, subject to certain limited exceptions. In
2013, we did not defer interest payments on the subordinated debentures.   

  103  

Table of Contents   

         The
Corporation has access to additional borrowing to support liquidity as follows:  

A commercial paper facility with a borrowing limit of $1.00 billion to cover short-term cash needs. As of
December 31, 2013, there were no balances outstanding and therefore the remaining borrowing capacity was $1.00 billion; however, the outstanding balance can fluctuate daily.          Our $1.00 billion unsecured revolving credit facility is available for short-term liquidity requirements and backs
our commercial paper facility. We have the option to extend the expiration of its initial five year term by one year at the first and second anniversary of the facility, upon approval of existing or
replacement lenders. In April 2013, we utilized the option on the first anniversary of the facility and we extended the facility by one year making its current expiration April 2018. The facility is
fully subscribed among 12 lenders with the largest commitment being $115 million. The commitments of the lenders are several and no lender is responsible for any other lender's commitment if
such lender fails to make a loan under the facility. This facility contains an increase provision that would allow up to an additional $500 million of borrowing. This facility has a financial
covenant requiring that we not exceed a 37.5% debt to capitalization ratio as defined in the agreement. This ratio was 15.5% as of December 31, 2013. Although the right to borrow under the
facility is not subject to a minimum rating requirement, the costs of maintaining the facility and borrowing under it are based on the ratings of our senior unsecured, unguaranteed long-term debt.
There were no borrowings under the credit facility during 2013. The total amount outstanding at any point in time under the combination of the commercial paper program and the credit facility cannot
exceed the amount that can be borrowed under the credit facility.          A universal shelf registration statement was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 30, 2012.
We can use this shelf registration to issue an unspecified amount of debt securities, common stock (including 451 million shares of treasury stock as of December 31, 2013), preferred
stock, depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units and securities of trust subsidiaries. The specific terms of any securities we issue under this registration statement
will be provided in the applicable prospectus supplements.    

           Liquidity exposure       Contractholder funds were $24.30 billion as of December 31, 2013. The following table summarizes contractholder
funds by their contractual withdrawal provisions as of December 31, 2013.   

(1)     Includes
$3.34 billion of liabilities with a contractual surrender charge of less than 5% of the account balance.      (2)     $2.45 billion
of the contracts with market value adjusted surrenders have a 30-45 day period at the end of their
initial and subsequent interest rate guarantee periods (which are typically 5, 6, 7 or 10 years) during which there is no surrender charge or market value adjustment.      (3)     79%
of these contracts have a minimum interest crediting rate guarantee of 3% or higher.       (4)     Includes
$911 million of contractholder funds on variable annuities reinsured to The Prudential Insurance Company of
America, a subsidiary of Prudential Financial Inc., in 2006.    

Retail
life and annuity products may be surrendered by customers for a variety of reasons. Reasons unique to individual customers include a current or unexpected need for cash or a
change in life insurance coverage needs. Other key factors that may impact the likelihood of customer surrender include the level of the contract surrender charge, the length of time the contract has
been in force, distribution channel, market interest rates, equity market conditions and potential tax implications. In addition, the propensity for retail life insurance policies to lapse is lower
than it is for fixed annuities because of the need for the insured to be re-underwritten upon policy replacement. Surrenders and partial withdrawals for our retail annuities decreased 20.0% in 2013
compared to 2012. The surrender and partial withdrawal rate on deferred fixed annuities and interest-sensitive life insurance products, based on the beginning of year contractholder funds, was 10.2%
and 11.3% in 2013 and 2012, respectively. Allstate Financial strives to promptly pay customers who request cash surrenders; however, statutory regulations generally provide up to six months in most
states to fulfill surrender requests.   

         Our
asset-liability management practices enable us to manage the differences between the cash flows generated by our investment portfolio and the expected cash flow requirements of our
life insurance and annuity product obligations.   

  104  

Table of Contents    

         Certain remote events and circumstances could constrain our liquidity. Those events and circumstances include, for example, a catastrophe resulting in
extraordinary losses, a downgrade in our senior long-term debt rating of A3, A- and a- (from Moody's, S P and A.M. Best, respectively) to non-investment grade status of below Baa3/BBB-/bb, a
downgrade in AIC's financial strength rating from Aa3, AA- and A+ (from Moody's, S P and A.M. Best, respectively) to below Baa2/BBB/A-, or a downgrade in ALIC's financial strength ratings from
A1, A+ and A+ (from Moody's, S P and A.M. Best, respectively) to below A3/A-/A-. The rating agencies also consider the interdependence of our individually rated entities; therefore, a rating
change in one entity could potentially affect the ratings of other related entities.   

         The
following table summarizes consolidated cash flow activities by segment.   

(1)     Business
unit cash flows reflect the elimination of intersegment dividends, contributions and borrowings.    

Property-Liability       Higher cash provided by operating activities in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to lower claim payments, increased
premiums and the surrender of company owned life insurance, partially offset by higher expenses and tax payments. Higher cash provided by operating activities in 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily
due to lower claim payments.   

         Higher
cash used in investing activities in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily related to 2013 operating cash flows being invested. Cash used in investing activities in 2012 compared to
cash provided by investing activities in 2011 was primarily due to 2012 operating cash flows being invested. There were lower sales of fixed income and equity securities and lower purchases of fixed
income and equity securities.   

           Allstate Financial       Lower cash provided by operating cash flows in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to lower net investment income,
partially
offset by lower contract benefits paid and higher premiums. Lower cash provided by operating cash flows in 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to higher contract benefits paid.   

         Higher
cash provided by investing activities in 2013 compared to 2012 was due to higher investment collections and higher financing needs to fund institutional product maturities. Lower
cash provided by investing activities in 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to lower financing needs as reflected in lower sales of fixed income securities, partially offset by decreased
purchases of fixed income securities.   

         Higher
cash used in financing activities in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to a $1.75 billion institutional product maturity. Lower cash used in financing activities in
2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to lower surrenders and partial withdrawals on fixed annuities, decreased maturities of institutional products and the absence of Allstate Bank activity in
2012. For quantification of the changes in contractholder funds, see the Allstate Financial Segment section of the MD A.   

Corporate and Other       Fluctuations in the Corporate and Other operating cash flows were primarily due to the timing of intercompany settlements.
Investing activities primarily relate to investments in the parent company portfolio. Financing cash flows of the Corporate and Other segment reflect actions such as fluctuations in short-term debt,
repayment of debt (including payment for the debt tender offer), proceeds from the issuance of debt and preferred stock, dividends to common shareholders of The Allstate Corporation and common share
repurchases; therefore, financing cash flows are affected when we increase or decrease the level of these activities.   

  105  

Table of Contents   

Contractual obligations and commitments       Our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2013 and the payments due by period are shown in
the
following table.   

(1)     Liabilities
for collateral are typically fully secured with cash or short-term investments. We manage our short-term liquidity position to
ensure the availability of a sufficient amount of liquid assets to extinguish short-term liabilities as they come due in the normal course of business, including utilizing potential sources of
liquidity as disclosed previously.       (2)     Contractholder
funds represent interest-bearing liabilities arising from the sale of products such as interest-sensitive life, fixed
annuities, including immediate annuities without life contingencies and institutional products. The reserve for life-contingent contract benefits relates primarily to traditional life insurance,
immediate annuities with life contingencies and voluntary accident and health insurance. These amounts reflect the present value of estimated cash payments to be made to contractholders and
policyholders. Certain of these contracts, such as immediate annuities without life contingencies and institutional products, involve payment obligations where the amount and timing of the payment is
essentially fixed and determinable. These amounts relate to (i) policies or contracts where we are currently making payments and will continue to do so and (ii) contracts where the
timing of a portion or all of the payments has been determined by the contract. Other contracts, such as interest-sensitive life, fixed deferred annuities, traditional life insurance, immediate
annuities with life contingencies and voluntary accident and health insurance, involve payment obligations where a portion or all of the amount and timing of future payments is uncertain. For these
contracts, we are not currently making payments and will not make payments until (i) the occurrence of an insurable event such as death or illness or (ii) the occurrence of a payment
triggering event such as the surrender or partial withdrawal on a policy or deposit contract, which is outside of our control. We have estimated the timing of payments related to these contracts based
on historical experience and our expectation of future payment patterns. Uncertainties relating to these liabilities include mortality, morbidity, expenses, customer lapse and withdrawal activity,
estimated additional deposits for interest-sensitive life contracts, and renewal premium for life policies, which may significantly impact both the timing and amount of future payments. Such cash
outflows reflect adjustments for the estimated timing of mortality, retirement, and other appropriate factors, but are undiscounted with respect to interest. As a result, the sum of the cash outflows
shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liabilities of $35.25 billion for contractholder funds and $14.28 billion for reserve for life-contingent contract benefits as
included in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2013, including those classified as held for sale. The liability amount in the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position reflects the discounting for interest as well as adjustments for the timing of other factors as described above.       (3)     Our
payment obligations relating to long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating leases, unconditional purchase obligations and
pension and other postretirement benefits ("OPEB") contributions are managed within the structure of our intermediate to long-term liquidity management program. Amount differs from the balance
presented on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2013 because the long-term debt amount above includes interest.       (4)     The
pension plans' obligations in the next 12 months represent our planned contributions where the benefit obligation exceeds the
assets, and the remaining years' contributions are projected based on the average remaining service period using the current underfunded status of the plans. The OPEB plans' obligations are estimated
based on the expected benefits to be paid. These liabilities are discounted with respect to interest, and as a result the sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the
corresponding liability amount of $628 million included in other liabilities and accrued expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.       (5)     Reserve
for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense is an estimate of amounts necessary to settle all outstanding claims,
including claims that have been IBNR as of the balance sheet date. We have estimated the timing of these payments based on our historical experience and our expectation of future payment patterns.
However, the timing of these payments may vary significantly from the amounts shown above, especially for IBNR claims. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded amounts which are
our best estimates. The reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense includes loss reserves related to asbestos and environmental claims as of December 31, 2013, of
$1.50 billion and $268 million, respectively.       (6)     Other
liabilities primarily include accrued expenses and certain benefit obligations and claim payments and other checks outstanding. Certain
of these long-term liabilities are discounted with respect to interest, as a result the sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount of
$3.68 billion.       (7)     Balance
sheet liabilities not included in the table above include unearned and advance premiums of $11.69 billion and gross deferred
tax liabilities of $2.59 billion. These items were excluded as they do not meet the definition of a contractual liability as we are not contractually obligated to pay these amounts to third
parties. Rather, they represent an accounting mechanism that allows us to present our financial statements on an accrual    

106  

Table of Contents   

basis. In addition, other liabilities of $395 million were not included in the table above because they did not represent a contractual obligation or the amount and timing of their eventual
payment was sufficiently uncertain.   

Our
contractual commitments as of December 31, 2013 and the periods in which the commitments expire are shown in the following table.   

Contractual
commitments represent investment commitments such as private placements, limited partnership interests and other loans. Limited partnership interests are typically funded
over the commitment period which is shorter than the contractual expiration date of the partnership and as a result, the actual timing of the funding may vary.   

         We
have agreements in place for services we conduct, generally at cost, between subsidiaries relating to insurance, reinsurance, loans and capitalization. All material intercompany
transactions have appropriately been eliminated in consolidation. Intercompany transactions among insurance subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the appropriate departments of insurance
as required.   

         For
a more detailed discussion of our off-balance sheet arrangements, see Note 8 of the consolidated financial statements.   

    ENTERPRISE RISK AND RETURN MANAGEMENT     

         Allstate manages enterprise risk under an integrated Enterprise Risk and Return Management ("ERRM") framework with risk-return
principles, governance and analytics. This framework provides an enterprise view of risks and opportunities and is used by senior leaders and business managers to drive strategic and business
decisions. Allstate's risk management strategies adapt to changes in business and market environments and seek to optimize returns. Allstate continually validates and improves its ERRM practices by
benchmarking and securing external perspectives for our processes.   

         Our
qualitative risk-return principles define how we operate and guide decision-making around risk and return. These principles are built around three key operating components:
maintaining our strong foundation of stakeholder trust and financial strength, building strategic value and optimizing return per unit of risk.   

         ERRM
governance includes an executive management committee structure, Board oversight and chief risk officers ("CROs"). The Enterprise Risk   Return Council ("ERRC") is Allstate's
senior risk management committee. It directs ERRM by establishing risk-return targets, determining economic capital levels and directing integrated strategies and actions from an enterprise
perspective. It consists of Allstate's chief executive officer, business unit presidents, enterprise and business unit chief risk officers and chief financial officers, general counsel and treasurer.
Allstate's Board of Directors, Risk and Return Committee and Audit Committee provide ERRM oversight by reviewing enterprise principles, guidelines and limits for Allstate's significant risks and by
monitoring strategies and actions management has taken to control these risks. Allstate's Board of Directors has overall responsibility for oversight of management's design and implementation of ERRM.
Risk and Return Committee oversight focuses on the risk and return position of the company and Audit Committee oversight focuses on risk assessment and risk management policies, including the
effectiveness of management's control environment.   

         CROs
are appointed for the enterprise and for Allstate Protection, Allstate Financial and Allstate Investments. Collectively, the CROs create an integrated approach to risk and return
management to ensure risk management practices and strategies are aligned with Allstate's overall enterprise objectives.   

         Our
ERRM governance is supported with an analytic framework to manage risk exposure and optimize returns on risk-adjusted capital. Management and the ERRC use enterprise stochastic
modeling, risk expertise and judgment to determine an appropriate level of enterprise economic capital to hold considering a broad range of risk objectives and external constraints. These include
limiting risks of financial stress, insolvency, likelihood of capital stress and volatility, maintaining stakeholder value and financial strength ratings and satisfying regulatory and rating agency
risk-based capital requirements. We generally assess solvency on a statutory accounting basis, but also consider GAAP volatility. Enterprise economic capital approximates a combination of statutory
surplus and deployable invested assets at the parent holding company level.   

  107  

Table of Contents   

         Using
our governance and analytic framework, Allstate designs business and enterprise strategies that seek to optimize returns on risk-adjusted capital. Examples include reducing
exposure to rising interest rates, reducing our concentration in spread-based products, and looking for opportunities to position the homeowners business to support our customer value proposition and
growth strategies.   

    REGULATION AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS     

         We are subject to extensive regulation and we are involved in various legal and regulatory actions, all of which have an effect on
specific aspects of our business. For a detailed discussion of the legal and regulatory actions in which we are involved, see Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements.   

    PENDING ACCOUNTING STANDARDS     

         There are several pending accounting standards that we have not implemented because the implementation date has not yet occurred. For a
discussion of these pending standards, see Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements.   

The
effect of implementing certain accounting standards on our financial results and financial condition is often based in part on market conditions at the time of implementation of the
standard and other factors we are unable to determine prior to implementation. For this reason, we are sometimes unable to estimate the effect of certain
pending accounting standards until the relevant authoritative body finalizes these standards or until we implement them.    

           Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk            

Information required for Item 7A is incorporated by reference to the material under the caption "Market Risk" in Part II,
Item 7 of this report.    

           Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data            

Page    

Consolidated Statements of Operations   
     
   109   

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income   
     
   110   

Consolidated Statements of Financial Position   
     
   111   

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity   
     
   112   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   
     
   113   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Notes)   

114   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

198   

108  

Table of Contents    

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS            

See notes to consolidated financial statements.  

  109  

Table of Contents    

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME            

See notes to consolidated financial statements.  

  110  

Table of Contents    

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION            

See notes to consolidated financial statements.  

  111  

Table of Contents    

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY            

See notes to consolidated financial statements.  

  112  

Table of Contents    

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS            

See notes to consolidated financial statements.  

  113  

Table of Contents    

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS            

   1.     General     

    Basis of presentation     

         The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of The Allstate Corporation (the "Corporation") and its wholly
owned subsidiaries, primarily Allstate Insurance Company ("AIC"), a property-liability insurance company with various property-liability and life and investment subsidiaries, including Allstate Life
Insurance Company ("ALIC") (collectively referred to as the "Company" or "Allstate"). These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.   

         To
conform to the current year presentation, certain amounts in the prior year notes to consolidated financial statements have been reclassified.   

         The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.   

    Nature of operations     

         Allstate is engaged, principally in the United States, in the property-liability insurance and life insurance business. Allstate's
primary business is the sale of private passenger auto and homeowners insurance. The Company also sells several other personal property and casualty insurance products, select commercial property and
casualty coverages, life insurance and voluntary accident and health insurance. Allstate primarily distributes its products through exclusive agencies, financial specialists, independent agencies,
contact centers and the internet.   

         The
Allstate Protection segment principally sells private passenger auto and homeowners insurance, with earned premiums accounting for 80% of Allstate's 2013 consolidated revenues.
Allstate was the country's second largest personal property and casualty insurer as of December 31, 2012. Allstate Protection, through several companies, is authorized to sell certain
property-liability products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. The Company is also authorized to sell certain insurance products in Canada. For 2013, the top geographic
locations for premiums earned by the Allstate Protection segment were Texas, California, New York, Florida and Pennsylvania. No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5% of premiums earned for
Allstate Protection.   

         Allstate
has exposure to catastrophes, an inherent risk of the property-liability insurance business, which have contributed, and will continue to contribute, to material year-to-year
fluctuations in the Company's results of operations and financial position (see Note 9). The nature and level of catastrophic loss caused by natural events (high winds, winter storms,
tornadoes, hailstorms, wildfires, tropical storms, hurricanes, earthquakes and volcanoes) and man-made events (terrorism and industrial accidents) experienced in any period cannot be predicted and
could be material to results of operations and financial position. The Company considers the greatest areas of potential catastrophe losses due to hurricanes to generally be major metropolitan centers
in counties along the eastern and gulf coasts of the United States. The Company considers the greatest areas of
potential catastrophe losses due to earthquakes and fires following earthquakes to be major metropolitan areas near fault lines in the states of California, Oregon, Washington, South Carolina,
Missouri, Kentucky and Tennessee. The Company also has exposure to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims (see Note 15).   

         The
Allstate Financial segment sells life insurance and voluntary accident and health insurance products. The principal products are interest-sensitive, traditional and variable life
insurance; and voluntary accident and health insurance. Effective January 1, 2014, the Company no longer offers fixed annuities such as deferred and immediate annuities. Institutional products
consisting of funding agreements sold to unaffiliated trusts that use them to back medium-term notes were offered prior to 2009. Banking products and services were previously offered to customers
through the Allstate Bank, which ceased operations in 2011.   

         Allstate
Financial, through several companies, is authorized to sell life insurance and retirement products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S.
Virgin Islands and Guam. For 2013, the top geographic locations for statutory premiums and annuity considerations for the Allstate Financial segment were California, Texas, Florida and New York. No
other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5% of statutory premiums and annuity considerations for Allstate Financial. Allstate Financial distributes its products through Allstate exclusive agencies
and exclusive financial specialists, and workplace enrolling independent agents.   

  114  

Table of Contents   

         Allstate
has exposure to market risk as a result of its investment portfolio. Market risk is the risk that the Company will incur realized and unrealized net capital losses due to
adverse changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices or currency exchange rates. The Company's primary market risk exposures are to changes in interest rates, credit spreads and equity
prices. Interest rate risk is the risk that the Company will incur a loss due to adverse changes in interest rates relative to the interest rate characteristics of its interest bearing assets and
liabilities. This risk arises from many of the Company's primary activities, as it invests substantial funds in interest-sensitive assets and issues interest-sensitive liabilities. Interest rate risk
includes risks related to changes in U.S. Treasury yields and other key risk-free reference yields. Credit spread risk is the risk that the Company will incur a loss due to adverse changes in credit
spreads. This risk arises from many of the Company's primary activities, as the Company invests substantial funds in spread-sensitive fixed income assets. Equity price risk is the risk that the
Company will incur losses due to adverse changes in the general levels of the equity markets.   

         The
Company monitors economic and regulatory developments that have the potential to impact its business. Federal and state laws and regulations affect the taxation of insurance
companies and life insurance and annuity products. Congress and various state legislatures from time to time consider legislation that would reduce or eliminate the favorable policyholder tax
treatment currently applicable to life insurance and annuities. Congress and various state legislatures also consider proposals to reduce the taxation of certain products or investments that may
compete with life insurance or annuities. Legislation that increases the taxation on insurance products or reduces the taxation on competing products could lessen the advantage or create a
disadvantage for certain of the Company's products making them less competitive. Such proposals, if adopted, could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial position or Allstate Financial's
ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies. In addition, changes in the federal estate tax laws could negatively affect the demand for the
types of life insurance used in estate planning.   

   2.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

Investments     

         Fixed income securities include bonds, asset-backed securities ("ABS"), residential mortgage-backed securities ("RMBS"), commercial
mortgage-backed securities ("CMBS") and redeemable preferred stocks. Fixed income securities, which may be sold prior to their contractual maturity, are designated as available for sale and are
carried at fair value. The difference between amortized cost and fair value, net of deferred income taxes, certain life and annuity deferred policy acquisition costs ("DAC"), certain deferred sales
inducement costs ("DSI") and certain reserves for life-contingent contract benefits, is reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Cash received from calls, principal payments
and make-whole payments is reflected as a component of proceeds from sales and cash received from maturities and pay-downs, including prepayments, is reflected as a component of investment collections
within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.   

         Equity
securities primarily include common stocks, exchange traded and mutual funds, non-redeemable preferred stocks and real estate investment trust equity investments. Equity
securities are designated as available for sale and are carried at fair value. The difference between cost and fair value, net of deferred income taxes, is reflected as a component of accumulated
other comprehensive income.   

Mortgage
loans are carried at unpaid principal balances, net of unamortized premium or discount and valuation allowances. Valuation allowances are established for impaired loans when it
is probable that contractual principal and interest will not be collected.   

         Investments
in limited partnership interests, including interests in private equity/debt funds, real estate funds, hedge funds and tax credit funds, where the Company's interest is so
minor that it exercises virtually no influence over operating and financial policies are accounted for in accordance with the cost method of accounting; all other investments in limited partnership
interests are accounted for in accordance with the equity method of accounting ("EMA").   

Short-term
investments, including money market funds, commercial paper and other short-term investments, are carried at fair value. Other investments primarily consist of policy loans,
bank loans, agent loans and derivatives. Policy loans are carried at unpaid principal balances and were $919 million and $1.14 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012,
respectively. Bank loans are primarily senior secured corporate loans and are carried at amortized cost. Agent loans are loans issued to exclusive Allstate agents and are carried at unpaid principal
balances, net of valuation allowances and unamortized deferred fees or costs. Derivatives are carried at fair value.   

  115  

Table of Contents   

         Investment
income primarily consists of interest, dividends, income from certain derivative transactions, income from cost method limited partnership interests, and, in 2013 and 2012,
income from EMA limited partnership interests. Interest is recognized on an accrual basis using the effective yield method and dividends are recorded at the ex-dividend date. Interest income for ABS,
RMBS and CMBS is determined considering estimated pay-downs, including prepayments, obtained from third party data sources and internal estimates. Actual prepayment experience is periodically reviewed
and effective yields are recalculated when differences arise between the prepayments originally anticipated and the actual prepayments received and currently anticipated. For ABS, RMBS and CMBS of
high credit quality with fixed interest rates, the effective yield is recalculated on a retrospective basis. For all others, the effective yield is recalculated on a prospective basis. Accrual of
income is suspended for other-than-temporarily impaired fixed income securities when the timing and amount of cash flows expected to be received is not reasonably estimable. Accrual of income is
suspended for mortgage loans, bank loans and agent loans that are in default or when full and timely collection of principal and interest payments is not probable. Cash receipts on investments on
nonaccrual status are generally recorded as a reduction of carrying value. Income from cost method limited partnership interests is recognized upon receipt of amounts distributed by the partnerships.
Income from EMA limited partnership interests is recognized based on the Company's share of the partnerships' net income, including unrealized gains and losses, and is recognized on a delay due to the
availability of the related financial statements. Income recognition on private equity/debt funds, real estate funds and tax credit funds is generally on a three month delay and income recognition on
other funds is generally on a one month delay.   

         Realized
capital gains and losses include gains and losses on investment sales, write-downs in value due to other-than-temporary declines in fair value, adjustments to valuation
allowances on mortgage loans and agent loans, periodic changes in fair value and settlements of certain derivatives including hedge ineffectiveness, and, in 2011, income from EMA limited partnership
interests. Realized capital gains and losses on investment sales, including principal payments, are determined on a specific identification basis.   

    Derivative and embedded derivative financial instruments     

         Derivative financial instruments include interest rate swaps, credit default swaps, futures (interest rate and equity), options
(including swaptions), interest rate caps, warrants and rights, foreign currency swaps, foreign currency forwards, certain investment risk transfer reinsurance agreements, and certain bond forward
purchase commitments. Derivatives required to be separated from the host instrument and accounted for as derivative financial instruments ("subject to bifurcation") are embedded in certain fixed
income securities, equity-indexed life and annuity contracts, reinsured variable annuity contracts and certain funding agreements.   

         All
derivatives are accounted for on a fair value basis and reported as other investments, other assets, other liabilities and accrued expenses or contractholder funds. Embedded
derivative instruments subject to bifurcation are also accounted for on a fair value basis and are reported together with the host contract. The change in fair value of derivatives embedded in certain
fixed income securities and subject to bifurcation is reported in realized capital gains and losses. The change in fair value of derivatives embedded in life and annuity product contracts and subject
to bifurcation is reported in life and annuity contract benefits or interest credited to contractholder
funds. Cash flows from embedded derivatives subject to bifurcation and derivatives receiving hedge accounting are reported consistently with the host contracts and hedged risks, respectively, within
the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Cash flows from other derivatives are reported in cash flows from investing activities within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.   

         When
derivatives meet specific criteria, they may be designated as accounting hedges and accounted for as fair value, cash flow, foreign currency fair value or foreign currency cash flow
hedges. The hedged item may be either all or a specific portion of a recognized asset, liability or an unrecognized firm commitment attributable to a particular risk for fair value hedges. At the
inception of the hedge, the Company formally documents the hedging relationship and risk management objective and strategy. The documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the
nature of the risk being hedged and the methodology used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging instrument in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item's fair value attributable to the
hedged risk. For a cash flow hedge, this documentation includes the exposure to changes in the variability in cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. The Company does not exclude any component of
the change in fair value of the hedging instrument from the effectiveness assessment. At each reporting date, the Company confirms that the hedging instrument continues to be highly effective in
offsetting the hedged risk. Ineffectiveness in fair value hedges and cash flow hedges, if any, is reported in realized capital gains and losses.   

           Fair value hedges       The change in fair value of hedging instruments used in fair value hedges of investment assets or a portion thereof is
reported in
net investment income, together with the change in fair value of the hedged items. The change in fair value of hedging instruments used in fair value hedges of contractholder funds liabilities or a
portion   

  116  

Table of Contents   

  thereof
is reported in interest credited to contractholder funds, together with the change in fair value of the hedged items. Accrued periodic settlements on swaps are reported together with the
changes in fair value of the swaps in net investment income or interest credited to contractholder funds. The amortized cost for fixed income securities, the carrying value for mortgage loans or the
carrying value of the hedged liability is adjusted for the change in fair value of the hedged risk.   

Cash flow hedges       For hedging instruments used in cash flow hedges, the changes in fair value of the derivatives representing the effective
portion of
the hedge are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income. Amounts are reclassified to net investment income, realized capital gains and losses or interest expense as the hedged or forecasted
transaction affects income. Accrued periodic settlements on derivatives used in cash flow hedges are reported in net investment income. The amount reported in accumulated other comprehensive income
for a hedged transaction is limited to the lesser of the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative less the amount reclassified to income, or the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative needed to
offset the cumulative change in the expected future cash flows on the hedged transaction from inception of the hedge less the derivative gain or loss previously reclassified from accumulated other
comprehensive income to income. If the Company expects at any time that the loss reported in accumulated other comprehensive income would lead to a net loss on the combination of the hedging
instrument and the hedged transaction which may not be recoverable, a loss is recognized immediately in realized capital gains and losses. If an impairment loss is recognized on an asset or an
additional obligation is incurred on a liability involved in a hedge transaction, any offsetting gain in accumulated
other comprehensive income is reclassified and reported together with the impairment loss or recognition of the obligation.   

Termination of hedge accounting       If, subsequent to entering into a hedge transaction, the derivative becomes ineffective (including if the
hedged item
is sold or otherwise extinguished, the occurrence of a hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable or the hedged asset becomes other-than-temporarily impaired), the Company may terminate the
derivative position. The Company may also terminate derivative instruments or redesignate them as non-hedge as a result of other events or circumstances. If the derivative instrument is not terminated
when a fair value hedge is no longer effective, the future gains and losses recognized on the derivative are reported in realized capital gains and losses. When a fair value hedge is no longer
effective, is redesignated as non-hedge or when the derivative has been terminated, the fair value gain or loss on the hedged asset, liability or portion thereof which has already been recognized in
income while the hedge was in place and used to adjust the amortized cost for fixed income securities, the carrying value for mortgage loans or the carrying value of the hedged liability, is amortized
over the remaining life of the hedged asset, liability or portion thereof, and reflected in net investment income or interest credited to contractholder funds beginning in the period that hedge
accounting is no longer applied. If the hedged item in a fair value hedge is an asset that has become other-than-temporarily impaired, the adjustment made to the amortized cost for fixed income
securities or the carrying value for mortgage loans is subject to the accounting policies applied to other-than-temporarily impaired assets.   

When
a derivative instrument used in a cash flow hedge of an existing asset or liability is no longer effective or is terminated, the gain or loss recognized on the derivative is
reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to income as the hedged risk impacts income. If the derivative instrument is not terminated when a cash flow hedge is no longer effective, the
future gains and losses recognized on the derivative are reported in realized capital gains and losses. When a derivative instrument used in a cash flow hedge of a forecasted transaction is terminated
because it is probable the forecasted transaction will not occur, the gain or loss recognized on the derivative is immediately reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to realized
capital gains and losses in the period that hedge accounting is no longer applied.   

Non-hedge derivative financial instruments       For derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied, the income statement effects, including
fair
value gains and losses and accrued periodic settlements, are reported either in realized capital gains and losses or in a single line item together with the results of the associated asset or
liability for which risks are being managed.   

    Securities loaned     

         The Company's business activities include securities lending transactions, which are used primarily to generate net investment income.
The proceeds received in conjunction with securities lending transactions are reinvested in short-term investments. These transactions are short-term in nature, usually 30 days or less.   

         The
Company receives cash collateral for securities loaned in an amount generally equal to 102% and 105% of the fair value of domestic and foreign securities, respectively, and records
the related obligations to return the collateral in other liabilities and accrued expenses. The carrying value of these obligations approximates fair value because of their   

  117  

Table of Contents   

  relatively
short-term nature. The Company monitors the market value of securities loaned on a daily basis and obtains additional collateral as necessary under the terms of the agreements to mitigate
counterparty credit risk. The Company maintains the right and ability to repossess the securities loaned on short notice.   

Recognition of premium revenues and contract charges, and related benefits and interest credited     

         Property-liability premiums are deferred and earned on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies, typically periods of six or
twelve months. The portion of premiums written applicable to the unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned premiums. Premium installment receivables, net, represent premiums written and
not yet collected, net of an allowance for uncollectible premiums. The Company regularly evaluates premium installment receivables and adjusts its valuation allowance as appropriate. The valuation
allowance for uncollectible premium installment receivables was $77 million and $70 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

Traditional
life insurance products consist principally of products with fixed and guaranteed premiums and benefits, primarily term and whole life insurance products. Voluntary accident
and health insurance products are expected to remain in force for an extended period. Premiums from these products are recognized as revenue when due from policyholders. Benefits are reflected in life
and annuity contract benefits and recognized in relation to premiums, so that profits are recognized over the life of the policy.   

         Immediate
annuities with life contingencies, including certain structured settlement annuities, provide insurance protection over a period that extends beyond the period during which
premiums are collected. Premiums from these products are recognized as revenue when received at the inception of the contract. Benefits and expenses are recognized in relation to premiums. Profits
from these policies come from investment income, which is recognized over the life of the contract.   

         Interest-sensitive
life contracts, such as universal life and single premium life, are insurance contracts whose terms are not fixed and guaranteed. The terms that may be changed include
premiums paid by the contractholder, interest credited to the contractholder account balance and contract charges assessed against the contractholder account balance. Premiums from these contracts are
reported as contractholder fund deposits. Contract charges consist of fees assessed against the contractholder account balance for the cost of insurance (mortality risk), contract administration and
surrender of the contract prior to contractually specified dates. These contract charges are recognized as revenue when assessed against the contractholder account balance. Life and annuity contract
benefits include life-contingent benefit payments in excess of the contractholder account balance.   

         Contracts
that do not subject the Company to significant risk arising from mortality or morbidity are referred to as investment contracts. Fixed annuities, including market value
adjusted annuities, equity-indexed annuities and immediate annuities without life contingencies, and funding agreements (primarily backing medium-term notes) are considered investment contracts.
Consideration received for such contracts is reported as contractholder fund deposits. Contract charges for investment contracts consist of fees assessed against the contractholder account balance for
maintenance, administration and surrender of the contract prior to contractually specified dates, and are recognized when assessed against the contractholder account balance.   

         Interest
credited to contractholder funds represents interest accrued or paid on interest-sensitive life and investment contracts. Crediting rates for certain fixed annuities and
interest-sensitive life contracts are adjusted periodically by the Company to reflect current market conditions subject to contractually guaranteed minimum rates. Crediting rates for indexed life and
annuities and indexed funding agreements are generally based on a specified interest rate index or an equity index, such as the Standard   Poor's ("S P") 500 Index. Interest credited also
includes amortization of DSI expenses. DSI is amortized into interest credited using the same method used to amortize DAC.   

Contract
charges for variable life and variable annuity products consist of fees assessed against the contractholder account balances for contract maintenance, administration, mortality,
expense and surrender of the contract prior to contractually specified dates. Contract benefits incurred for variable annuity products include guaranteed minimum death, income, withdrawal and
accumulation benefits. Substantially all of the Company's variable annuity business is ceded through reinsurance agreements and the contract charges and contract benefits related thereto are reported
net of reinsurance ceded.   

    Deferred policy acquisition and sales inducement costs     

         Costs that are related directly to the successful acquisition of new or renewal property-liability insurance, life insurance and
investment contracts are deferred and recorded as DAC. These costs are principally agents' and brokers' remuneration, premium taxes and certain underwriting expenses. DSI costs, which are deferred and
recorded as other assets, relate to sales inducements offered on sales to new customers, principally on annuity and interest-sensitive life   

  118  

Table of Contents   

  contracts.
These sales inducements are primarily in the form of additional credits to the customer's account balance or enhancements to interest credited for a specified period which are in excess of
the rates currently being credited to similar contracts without sales inducements. All other acquisition costs are expensed as incurred and included in operating costs and expenses. DAC associated
with property-liability insurance is amortized into income as premiums are earned, typically over periods of six or twelve months, and is included in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs.
Amortization of DAC associated with life insurance and investment contracts is included in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and is described in more detail below. DSI is amortized
into income using the same methodology and assumptions as DAC and is included in interest credited
to contractholder funds. DAC and DSI are periodically reviewed for recoverability and adjusted if necessary. Future investment income is considered in determining the recoverability of DAC.   

         For
traditional life insurance, DAC is amortized over the premium paying period of the related policies in proportion to the estimated revenues on such business. Assumptions used in the
amortization of DAC and reserve calculations are established at the time the policy is issued and are generally not revised during the life of the policy. Any deviations from projected business in
force resulting from actual policy terminations differing from expected levels and any estimated premium deficiencies may result in a change to the rate of amortization in the period such events
occur. Generally, the amortization periods for these policies approximates the estimated lives of the policies.   

         For
interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment contracts, DAC and DSI are amortized in proportion to the incidence of the total present value of gross profits, which
includes both actual historical gross profits ("AGP") and estimated future gross profits ("EGP") expected to be earned over the estimated lives of the contracts. The amortization is net of interest on
the prior period DAC balance using rates established at the inception of the contracts. Actual amortization periods generally range from 15-30 years; however, incorporating estimates of the
rate of customer surrenders, partial withdrawals and deaths generally results in the majority of the DAC being amortized during the surrender charge period, which is typically 10-20 years for
interest-sensitive life and 5-10 years for fixed annuities. The cumulative DAC and DSI amortization is reestimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to income when there is a
difference between the incidence of actual versus expected gross profits in a reporting period or when there is a change in total EGP. When DAC or DSI amortization or a component of gross profits for
a quarterly period is potentially negative (which would result in an increase of the DAC or DSI balance) as a result of negative AGP, the specific facts and circumstances surrounding the potential
negative amortization are considered to determine whether it is appropriate for recognition in the consolidated financial statements. Negative amortization is only recorded when the increased DAC or
DSI balance is determined to be recoverable based on facts and circumstances. Recapitalization of DAC and DSI is limited to the originally deferred costs plus interest.   

         AGP
and EGP primarily consist of the following components: contract charges for the cost of insurance less mortality costs and other benefits; investment income and realized capital
gains and losses less interest credited; and surrender and other contract charges less maintenance expenses. The principal assumptions for determining the amount of EGP are persistency, mortality,
expenses, investment returns, including capital gains and losses on assets supporting contract liabilities, interest crediting rates to contractholders, and the effects of any hedges. For products
whose supporting investments are exposed to capital losses in excess of the Company's expectations which may cause periodic AGP to become temporarily negative, EGP and AGP utilized in DAC and DSI
amortization may be modified to exclude the excess capital losses.   

         The
Company performs quarterly reviews of DAC and DSI recoverability for interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment contracts in the aggregate using current
assumptions. If a change in the amount of EGP is significant, it could result in the unamortized DAC or DSI not being recoverable, resulting in a charge which is included as a component of
amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs or interest credited to contractholder funds, respectively.   

The
DAC and DSI balances presented include adjustments to reflect the amount by which the amortization of DAC and DSI would increase or decrease if the unrealized capital gains or losses
in the respective product investment portfolios were actually realized. The adjustments are recorded net of tax in accumulated other comprehensive income. DAC, DSI and deferred income taxes determined
on unrealized capital gains and losses and reported in accumulated other comprehensive income recognize the impact on shareholders' equity consistently with the amounts that would be recognized in the
income statement on realized capital gains and losses.   

  119  

Table of Contents   

         Customers
of the Company may exchange one insurance policy or investment contract for another offered by the Company, or make modifications to an existing investment, life or
property-liability contract issued by the Company. These transactions are identified as internal replacements for accounting purposes. Internal replacement transactions determined to result in
replacement contracts that are substantially unchanged from the replaced contracts are accounted for as continuations of the replaced contracts. Unamortized DAC and DSI related to the replaced
contracts continue to be deferred and amortized in connection with the replacement contracts. For interest-sensitive life and investment contracts, the EGP of the replacement contracts are treated as
a revision to the EGP of the replaced contracts in the determination of amortization of DAC and DSI. For traditional life and property-liability insurance policies, any changes to unamortized DAC that
result from replacement contracts are treated as prospective revisions. Any costs associated with the issuance of replacement contracts are characterized as maintenance costs and expensed as incurred.
Internal replacement transactions determined to result in a substantial change to the replaced contracts are accounted for as an extinguishment of the replaced contracts, and any unamortized DAC and
DSI related to the replaced contracts are eliminated with a corresponding charge to amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs or interest credited to contractholder funds, respectively.   

         The
costs assigned to the right to receive future cash flows from certain business purchased from other insurers are also classified as DAC in the Consolidated Statements of Financial
Position. The costs capitalized represent the present value of future profits expected to be earned over the lives of the contracts acquired. These costs are amortized as profits emerge over the lives
of the acquired business and are periodically evaluated for recoverability. The present value of future profits was $79 million and $95 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012,
respectively. Amortization expense of the present value of future profits was $16 million, $41 million and $39 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

    Reinsurance     

         In the normal course of business, the Company seeks to limit aggregate and single exposure to losses on large risks by purchasing
reinsurance. The Company has also used reinsurance to effect the acquisition or disposition of certain blocks of business. The amounts reported as reinsurance recoverables include amounts billed to
reinsurers on losses paid as well as estimates of amounts expected to be recovered from reinsurers on insurance liabilities and contractholder funds that have not yet been paid. Reinsurance
recoverables on unpaid losses are estimated based upon assumptions consistent with those used in establishing the liabilities related to the underlying reinsured contracts. Insurance liabilities are
reported gross of reinsurance recoverables. Reinsurance premiums are generally reflected in income in a manner consistent with the recognition of premiums on the reinsured contracts. For catastrophe
coverage, the cost of reinsurance premiums is recognized ratably over the contract period to the extent coverage remains available. Reinsurance does not extinguish the Company's primary liability
under the policies written. Therefore, the Company regularly evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers, including their activities with respect to claim settlement practices and
commutations, and establishes allowances for uncollectible reinsurance as appropriate.   

Goodwill     

         Goodwill represents the excess of amounts paid for acquiring businesses over the fair value of the net assets acquired. The goodwill
balances were $825 million and $418 million as of December 31, 2013 and $822 million and $418 million as of December 31, 2012 for the Allstate Protection
segment and the Allstate Financial segment, respectively. The Company's reporting units are equivalent to its reporting segments, Allstate Protection and Allstate Financial. Goodwill is allocated to
reporting units based on which unit is expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually. The Company
performs its annual goodwill impairment testing during the fourth quarter of each year based upon data as of the close of the third quarter. The Company also reviews goodwill for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances, such as deteriorating or adverse market conditions, indicate that it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of goodwill may exceed its implied fair value.   

         To
estimate the fair value of its reporting units, the Company may utilize a combination of widely accepted valuation techniques including a stock price and market capitalization
analysis, discounted cash flow calculations and peer company price to earnings multiples analysis. The stock price and market capitalization analysis takes into consideration the quoted market price
of the Company's outstanding common stock and includes a control premium, derived from historical insurance industry acquisition activity, in determining the estimated fair value of the consolidated
entity before allocating that fair value to individual reporting units. The discounted cash flow analysis utilizes long term assumptions for revenue growth, capital growth, earnings projections
including those used in the Company's strategic plan, and an appropriate discount rate. The peer company price to earnings multiples analysis takes into consideration the price to earnings multiples
of peer companies for each reporting unit and estimated income from the Company's strategic plan.   

  120  

Table of Contents    

         Goodwill impairment evaluations indicated no impairment as of December 31, 2013 or 2012.   

    Property and equipment     

         Property and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Included in property and equipment are capitalized costs
related to computer software licenses and software developed for internal use. These costs generally consist of certain external payroll and payroll related costs. Certain facilities and equipment
held under capital leases are also classified as property and equipment with the related lease obligations recorded as liabilities. Property and equipment depreciation is calculated using the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, generally 3 to 10 years for equipment and 40 years for real property. Depreciation expense is reported in operating
costs and expenses. Accumulated depreciation on property and equipment was $2.19 billion and $2.41 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Depreciation expense on
property and equipment was $208 million, $214 million and $222 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
The Company reviews its property and equipment for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.   

Income taxes     

         The income tax provision is calculated under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded based on the
difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities at the enacted tax rates. The principal assets and liabilities giving rise to such differences are DAC, unrealized
capital gains and losses, unearned premiums, differences in tax bases of invested assets and insurance reserves. A deferred tax asset valuation allowance is established when there is uncertainty that
such assets will be realized.   

    Reserves for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense and life-contingent contract benefits     

The reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense is the estimate of amounts necessary to settle all reported and
unreported claims for the ultimate cost of insured property-liability losses, based upon the facts of each case and the Company's experience with similar cases. Estimated amounts of salvage and
subrogation are deducted from the reserve for claims and claims expense. The establishment of appropriate reserves, including reserves for catastrophe losses, is an inherently uncertain and complex
process. Reserve estimates are regularly reviewed and updated, using the most current information available. Any resulting reestimates are reflected in current results of operations.   

The
reserve for life-contingent contract benefits payable under insurance policies, including traditional life insurance, life-contingent immediate annuities and voluntary accident and
health insurance products, is computed on the basis of long-term actuarial assumptions of future investment yields, mortality, morbidity, policy terminations and expenses. These assumptions, which for
traditional life insurance are applied using the net level premium method, include provisions for adverse deviation and generally vary by characteristics such as type of coverage, year of issue and
policy duration. To the extent that unrealized gains on fixed income securities would result in a premium deficiency if those gains were realized, the related increase in reserves for certain
immediate annuities with life contingencies is recorded net of tax as a reduction of unrealized net capital gains included in accumulated other comprehensive income.   

    Contractholder funds     

         Contractholder funds represent interest-bearing liabilities arising from the sale of products such as interest-sensitive life
insurance, fixed annuities and funding agreements. Contractholder funds primarily comprise cumulative deposits received and interest credited to the contractholder less cumulative contract benefits,
surrenders, withdrawals, maturities and contract charges for mortality or administrative
expenses. Contractholder funds also include reserves for secondary guarantees on interest-sensitive life insurance and certain fixed annuity contracts and reserves for certain guarantees on reinsured
variable annuity contracts.   

    Held for sale classification     

         Business is classified as held for sale when management has approved or received approval to sell the business, the sale is probable to
occur during the next 12 months at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value and certain other specified criteria are met. A business classified as held for sale is
recorded at the lower of its carrying amount or estimated fair value less cost to sell. If the carrying amount of the business exceeds its estimated fair value less cost to sell, a loss is recognized.
Assets and liabilities related to a business classified as held for sale are segregated in the Consolidated Statement of Position in the period in which the business is classified as held for sale.   

  121  

Table of Contents   

    Separate accounts     

         Separate accounts assets are carried at fair value. The assets of the separate accounts are legally segregated and available only to
settle separate account contract obligations. Separate accounts liabilities represent the contractholders' claims to the related assets and are carried at an amount equal to the separate accounts
assets. Investment income and realized capital gains and losses of the separate accounts accrue directly to the contractholders and therefore are not included in the Company's Consolidated Statements
of Operations. Deposits to and surrenders and withdrawals from the separate accounts are reflected in separate accounts liabilities and are not included in consolidated cash flows.   

Absent
any contract provision wherein the Company provides a guarantee, variable annuity and variable life insurance contractholders bear the investment risk that the separate accounts'
funds may not meet their stated investment objectives. Substantially all of the Company's variable annuity business was reinsured beginning in 2006.   

    Deferred Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP") expense     

         Deferred ESOP expense represents the remaining unrecognized cost of shares acquired by the Allstate ESOP to pre-fund a portion of the
Company's contribution to the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan.   

    Equity incentive plans     

         The Company currently has equity incentive plans under which the Company grants nonqualified stock options, restricted stock units and
performance stock awards ("equity awards") to certain employees and directors of the Company. The Company measures the fair value of equity awards at the award date and recognizes the expense over the
shorter of the period in which the requisite service is rendered or retirement eligibility is attained. The expense for performance stock awards is adjusted each period to reflect the performance
factor most likely to be achieved at the end of the performance period. The Company uses a binomial lattice model to determine the fair value of employee stock options.   

    Off-balance sheet financial instruments     

         Commitments to invest, commitments to purchase private placement securities, commitments to extend loans, financial guarantees and
credit guarantees have off-balance sheet risk because their contractual amounts are not recorded in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Financial Position (see Note 8 and Note 15).   

Consolidation of variable interest entities ("VIEs")     

         The Company consolidates VIEs when it is the primary beneficiary. A primary beneficiary is the entity with both the power to direct the
activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the economic performance of the VIE and the obligation to absorb losses, or the right to receive benefits, that could potentially be significant to
the VIE (see Note 13).   

    Foreign currency translation     

         The local currency of the Company's foreign subsidiaries is deemed to be the functional currency of the country in which these
subsidiaries operate. The financial statements of the Company's foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect at the end of a reporting period for assets and
liabilities and at average exchange rates during the period for results of operations. The unrealized gains and losses from the translation of the net assets are recorded as unrealized foreign
currency translation adjustments and included in accumulated other comprehensive income. Changes in unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments are included in other comprehensive income.
Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions are reported in operating costs and expenses and have not been material.   

Earnings per common share     

         Basic earnings per common share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, including unvested
participating restricted stock units. Diluted earnings per common share is computed using the weighted average number of common and dilutive potential common shares outstanding. For the Company,
dilutive potential common shares consist of outstanding stock options and unvested non-participating restricted stock units and contingently issuable performance stock awards.   

  122  

Table of Contents   

         The
computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share for the years ended December 31 is presented in the following table.   

The
effect of dilutive potential common shares does not include the effect of options with an anti-dilutive effect on earnings per common share because their exercise prices exceed the
average market price of Allstate common shares during the period or for which the unrecognized compensation cost would have an anti-dilutive effect. Options to purchase 8.8 million,
20.4 million and 27.2 million Allstate common shares, with exercise prices ranging from $40.49 to $62.42, $26.56 to $62.84 and $22.71 to $62.84, were outstanding in 2013, 2012 and 2011,
respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per common share in those years.   

    Adopted accounting standards     

    Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities     

         In December 2011 and January 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued guidance requiring expanded disclosures,
including both gross and net information, for derivatives, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and securities lending transactions that are either offset in the
reporting entity's financial statements or those that are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement. The Company adopted the new guidance in the first quarter of 2013.
The new guidance affects disclosures only and therefore had no impact on the Company's results of operations or financial position.   

    Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income     

         In February 2013, the FASB issued guidance requiring expanded disclosures about the amounts reclassified out of accumulated other
comprehensive income by component. The guidance requires the presentation of significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by income statement line item but only if
the amount reclassified is required under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") to be reclassified to net income in its entirety in the same reporting
period. For other amounts that are not required under GAAP to be reclassified in their entirety to net income, cross-reference to other disclosures that provide additional detail about those amounts
is required. The Company adopted the new guidance in the first quarter of 2013. The new guidance affects disclosures only and therefore had no impact on the Company's results of operations or
financial position.   

    Pending accounting standard     

    Accounting for Investments in Qualified Affordable Housing Projects     

         In January 2014, the FASB issued guidance which allows entities that invest in certain qualified affordable housing projects through
limited liability entities the option to account for these investments using the proportional amortization method if certain conditions are met. Under the proportional amortization method, the entity
amortizes the initial cost of the investment in proportion to the tax credits and other tax benefits received and recognizes the net investment performance in the income statement as a component of
income tax expense or benefit. The guidance is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2014 and is to be applied retrospectively. The Company is in the process   

  123  

Table of Contents   

  of
evaluating the impact of adoption, which is not expected to be material to the Company's results of operations and financial position.   

3.    Acquisition     

         On October 7, 2011, The Allstate Corporation acquired all of the shares of Esurance Holdings, Inc. (formerly, White Mountains, Inc.) and
Answer Financial Inc. ("Answer Financial") from White Mountains Holdings (Luxembourg) S.  r.l. for $1.01 billion in cash. Esurance Holdings, Inc. primarily
comprises the Esurance insurance business ("Esurance"). Esurance sells private passenger auto, renters and homeowners insurance direct to consumers online, through contact centers and through select
agents, including Answer Financial. Answer Financial is an independent personal lines insurance agency that offers comparison quotes for auto and homeowners insurance from approximately 25 insurance
companies through its website and over the phone. Esurance expands the Company's ability to serve the self-directed, brand-sensitive market segment. Answer Financial strengthens the Company's offering
to self-directed consumers who want a choice between insurance carriers.   

         In
connection with the acquisition, as of October 7, 2011 the Company recorded present value of future profits of $42 million, goodwill of $368 million, other
intangible assets of $426 million, reserve for property-liability claims and claims expense of $487 million, and unearned premiums of $229 million. In 2012, goodwill was reduced
by $2 million related to reestimates of the opening balance sheet reserve for property-liability claims and claims expense.   

4.    Held for Sale Transaction     

         On July 17, 2013, the Company entered into a definitive agreement with Resolution Life Holdings, Inc. to sell Lincoln Benefit Life Company
("LBL"), LBL's life insurance business generated through independent master brokerage agencies, and all of LBL's deferred fixed annuity and long-term care
insurance business for $600 million subject to
certain adjustments as of the closing date. LBL is reported in the Allstate Financial segment. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. The Company
expects the closing to occur in April 2014. The estimated loss on disposition of $521 million, after-tax, was recorded in 2013, excluding any impact of unrealized net capital gains and losses.
This transaction met the criteria for held for sale accounting. As a result, the related assets and liabilities are included as single line items in the asset and liability sections of the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as of December 31, 2013. The following table summarizes the assets and liabilities held for sale as of December 31, 2013.   

124  

Table of Contents   

Included
in shareholders' equity is $85 million of accumulated other comprehensive income related to assets held for sale.   

   5.    Supplemental Cash Flow Information     

         Non-cash modifications of certain mortgage loans, fixed income securities, limited partnership interests and other investments, as well as mergers completed with
equity securities, totaled $322 million, $323 million and $601 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Non-cash financing activities include $94 million,
$39 million and $18 million related to the issuance of Allstate shares for vested restricted stock units in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

Liabilities
for collateral received in conjunction with the Company's securities lending program were $609 million, $784 million and $419 million as of
December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and are reported in other liabilities and accrued expenses. Obligations to return cash collateral for over-the-counter ("OTC") and cleared
derivatives were $15 million, $24 million and $43 million as of December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and are reported in other liabilities and accrued expenses
or other investments. The accompanying cash flows are included in cash flows from operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows along with the activities resulting from management
of the proceeds, which for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

125  

Table of Contents   

6.    Investments     

    Fair values     

         The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses and fair value for fixed income securities are as follows:   

Scheduled maturities     

The scheduled maturities for fixed income securities are as follows as of December 31, 2013:   

Actual
maturities may differ from those scheduled as a result of calls and make-whole payments by the issuers. ABS, RMBS and CMBS are shown separately because of the potential for
prepayment of principal prior to contractual maturity dates.   

  126  

Table of Contents   

    Net investment income     

Net investment income for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

(1)     Income
from EMA limited partnerships is reported in net investment income in 2013 and 2012 and realized capital gains and losses in 2011.    

Realized capital gains and losses     

         Realized capital gains and losses by asset type for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)     Income
from EMA limited partnerships is reported in net investment income in 2013 and 2012 and realized capital gains and losses in 2011.    

Realized
capital gains and losses by transaction type for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

Gross
gains of $432 million, $564 million and $1.27 billion and gross losses of $103 million, $322 million and $240 million were realized on
sales of fixed income securities during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

  127  

Table of Contents   

         Other-than-temporary
impairment losses by asset type for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

The
total amount of other-than-temporary impairment losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income at the time of impairment for fixed income securities, which were not
included in earnings, are presented in the following table. The amount excludes $260 million and $219 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, of net unrealized
gains related to changes in valuation of the fixed income securities subsequent to the impairment measurement date.   

Rollforwards
of the cumulative credit losses recognized in earnings for fixed income securities held as of December 31 are as follows:   

(1)     The
December 31, 2013 ending balance includes $60 million of cumulative credit losses recognized in earnings for fixed income
securities that are classified as held for sale.    

The
Company uses its best estimate of future cash flows expected to be collected from the fixed income security, discounted at the security's original or current effective rate, as
appropriate, to calculate a recovery value and determine whether a credit loss exists. The determination of cash flow estimates is inherently subjective and methodologies may vary depending on facts
and circumstances specific to the security. All reasonably available information relevant to the collectability of the security, including past events, current conditions, and reasonable and
supportable assumptions and forecasts, are considered when developing the estimate of cash flows expected to be collected. That information   

  128  

Table of Contents   

  generally
includes, but is not limited to, the remaining payment terms of the security, prepayment speeds, foreign exchange rates, the financial condition and future earnings potential of the issue or
issuer, expected defaults, expected recoveries, the value of underlying collateral, vintage, geographic concentration, available reserves or escrows, current subordination levels, third party
guarantees and other credit enhancements. Other information, such as industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings, financial condition of the bond insurer for insured fixed income
securities, and other market data relevant to the realizability of contractual cash flows, may also be considered. The estimated fair value of collateral will be used to estimate recovery value if the
Company determines that the security is dependent on the liquidation of collateral for ultimate settlement. If the estimated recovery value is less than the amortized cost of the security, a credit
loss exists and an other-than-temporary impairment for the difference between the estimated recovery value and amortized cost is recorded in earnings. The portion of the unrealized loss related to
factors other than credit remains classified in accumulated other comprehensive income. If the Company determines that the fixed income security does not have sufficient cash
flow or other information to estimate a recovery value for the security, the Company may conclude that the entire decline in fair value is deemed to be credit related and the loss is recorded in
earnings.   

    Unrealized net capital gains and losses     

         Unrealized net capital gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income are as follows:   

(1)     Included
in the fair value of derivative instruments are $1 million classified as assets and $14 million classified as
liabilities.       (2)     Unrealized
net capital gains and losses for limited partnership interests represent the Company's share of EMA limited partnerships' other
comprehensive income. Fair value and gross gains and losses are not applicable.       (3)     The
insurance reserves adjustment represents the amount by which the reserve balance would increase if the net unrealized gains in the
applicable product portfolios were realized and reinvested at current lower interest rates, resulting in a premium deficiency. Although the Company evaluates premium deficiencies on the combined
performance of life insurance and immediate annuities with life contingencies, the adjustment primarily relates to structured settlement annuities with life contingencies, in addition to annuity
buy-outs and certain payout annuities with life contingencies.       (4)     The
DAC and DSI adjustment balance represents the amount by which the amortization of DAC and DSI would increase or decrease if the unrealized
gains or losses in the respective product portfolios were realized.    

129  

Table of Contents   

(1)     Included
in the fair value of derivative instruments are $2 million classified as assets and $19 million classified as
liabilities.    

Change in unrealized net capital gains and losses     

         The change in unrealized net capital gains and losses for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

Portfolio monitoring     

         The Company has a comprehensive portfolio monitoring process to identify and evaluate each fixed income and equity security whose
carrying value may be other-than-temporarily impaired.   

         For
each fixed income security in an unrealized loss position, the Company assesses whether management with the appropriate authority has made the decision to sell or whether it is more
likely than not the Company will be
required to sell the security before recovery of the amortized cost basis for reasons such as liquidity, contractual or regulatory purposes. If a security meets either of these criteria, the
security's decline in fair value is considered other than temporary and is recorded in earnings.   

         If
the Company has not made the decision to sell the fixed income security and it is not more likely than not the Company will be required to sell the fixed income security before
recovery of its amortized cost basis, the Company evaluates whether it expects to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. The Company calculates the
estimated recovery value by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows at the security's original or current effective rate, as appropriate, and compares this to the amortized cost of the
security. If the Company does not expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the fixed income security, the credit loss component of the impairment is
recorded in earnings, with the remaining amount of the unrealized loss related to other factors recognized in other comprehensive income.   

  130  

Table of Contents   

         For
equity securities, the Company considers various factors, including whether it has the intent and ability to hold the equity security for a period of time sufficient to recover its
cost basis. Where the Company lacks the intent and ability to hold to recovery, or believes the recovery period is extended, the equity security's decline in fair value is considered other than
temporary and is recorded in earnings.   

         For
fixed income and equity securities managed by third parties, either the Company has contractually retained its decision making authority as it pertains to selling securities that are
in an unrealized loss position or it recognizes any unrealized loss at the end of the period through a charge to earnings.   

         The
Company's portfolio monitoring process includes a quarterly review of all securities to identify instances where the fair value of a security compared to its amortized cost (for
fixed income securities) or cost (for equity securities) is below established thresholds. The process also includes the monitoring of other impairment indicators such as ratings, ratings downgrades
and payment defaults. The securities identified, in addition to other securities for which the Company may have a concern, are evaluated for potential other-than-temporary impairment using all
reasonably available information relevant to the collectability or recovery of the security. Inherent in the Company's evaluation of other-than-temporary impairment for these fixed income and equity
securities are assumptions and estimates about the financial condition and future earnings potential of the issue or issuer. Some of the factors that may be considered in evaluating whether a decline
in fair value is other than temporary are: 1) the financial condition, near-term and long-term prospects of the issue or issuer, including relevant industry specific market conditions and
trends, geographic location and implications of rating agency actions and offering prices; 2) the specific reasons that a security is in an unrealized loss position, including overall market
conditions which could affect liquidity; and 3) the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost or cost.   

  131  

Table of Contents    

         The following table summarizes the gross unrealized losses and fair value of fixed income and equity securities by the length of time that individual securities
have been in a continuous unrealized loss position.   

As
of December 31, 2013, $504 million of unrealized losses are related to securities with an unrealized loss position less than 20% of amortized cost or cost, the degree of
which suggests that these securities do not pose a high risk of being other-than-temporarily impaired. Of the $504 million, $383 million are related to unrealized losses on investment
grade fixed income securities. Investment grade is defined as a security having a rating of Aaa, Aa, A or Baa from Moody's, a rating of AAA, AA, A or BBB from S P, Fitch, Dominion, Kroll or Realpoint,
a rating of aaa, aa, a or bbb from A.M. Best, or a comparable internal rating if an externally provided rating is not available. Unrealized losses on investment grade securities are principally
related to increasing risk-free interest rates or widening credit spreads since the time of initial purchase.   

         As
of December 31, 2013, the remaining $103 million of unrealized losses are related to securities in unrealized loss positions greater than or equal to 20% of amortized
cost or cost. Investment grade fixed income securities comprising $73 million of these unrealized losses were evaluated based on factors such as discounted cash flows and the financial
condition and near-term and long-term prospects of the issue or issuer and were determined to have adequate resources to fulfill contractual obligations. Of the $103 million, $25 million
are related to below investment grade fixed income securities and $5 million are related to equity securities. Of these amounts, $17 million are related to below   

  132  

Table of Contents   

  investment
grade fixed income securities that had been in an unrealized loss position greater than or equal to 20% of amortized cost for a period of twelve or more consecutive months as of
December 31, 2013.   

         ABS,
RMBS and CMBS in an unrealized loss position were evaluated based on actual and projected collateral losses relative to the securities' positions in the respective securitization
trusts, security specific expectations of cash flows, and credit ratings. This evaluation also takes into consideration credit enhancement, measured in terms of (i) subordination from other
classes of securities in the trust that are contractually obligated to absorb losses before the class of security the Company owns, (ii) the expected impact of other structural features
embedded in the securitization trust beneficial to the class of securities the Company owns, such as overcollateralization and excess spread, and (iii) for ABS and RMBS in an unrealized loss
position, credit enhancements from reliable bond insurers, where applicable. Municipal bonds in an unrealized loss position were evaluated based on the quality of the underlying securities. Unrealized
losses on equity securities are primarily related to temporary equity market fluctuations of securities that are expected to recover.   

         As
of December 31, 2013, the Company has not made the decision to sell and it is not more likely than not the Company will be required to sell fixed income securities with
unrealized losses before recovery of the amortized cost basis. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had the intent and ability to hold equity securities with unrealized losses for a period of
time sufficient for them to recover.   

    Limited partnerships     

         As of both December 31, 2013 and 2012, the carrying value of equity method limited partnerships totaled $3.52 billion.
The Company recognizes an impairment loss for equity method limited partnerships when evidence demonstrates that the loss is other than temporary. Evidence of a loss in value that is other than
temporary may include the absence of an ability to recover the carrying amount of the investment or the inability of the investee to sustain a level of earnings that would justify the carrying amount
of the investment. The Company had write-downs related to equity method limited partnerships of $1 million and $2 million in 2013 and 2011, respectively. The Company had no write-downs
related to equity method limited partnerships in 2012.   

         As
of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the carrying value for cost method limited partnerships was $1.44 billion and $1.41 billion, respectively. To determine if an
other-than-temporary impairment has occurred, the Company evaluates whether an impairment indicator has occurred in the period that may have a significant adverse effect on the carrying value of the
investment. Impairment indicators may include: significantly reduced valuations of the investments held by the limited partnerships; actual recent cash flows received being significantly less than
expected cash flows; reduced valuations based on financing completed at a lower value; completed sale of a material underlying investment at a price significantly lower than expected; or any other
adverse events since the last financial statements received that might affect the fair value of the investee's capital. Additionally, the Company's portfolio monitoring process includes a quarterly
review of all cost method limited partnerships to identify instances where the net asset value is below established thresholds for certain periods of time, as well as investments that are performing
below expectations, for further impairment consideration. If a cost method limited partnership is other-than-temporarily impaired, the carrying value is written down to fair value, generally estimated
to be equivalent to the reported net asset value of the underlying funds. In 2013, 2012 and 2011, the
Company had write-downs related to cost method limited partnerships of $17 million, $8 million and $4 million, respectively.   

Mortgage loans     

         The Company's mortgage loans are commercial mortgage loans collateralized by a variety of commercial real estate property types located
throughout the United States and totaled, net of valuation allowance, $4.72 billion and $6.57 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Substantially all of the
commercial mortgage loans are non-recourse to the borrower. The following table shows the principal geographic distribution of commercial real estate   

  133  

Table of Contents   

  represented
in the Company's mortgage loan portfolio. No other state represented more than 5% of the portfolio as of December 31.   

The
types of properties collateralizing the mortgage loans as of December 31 are as follows:   

The
contractual maturities of the mortgage loan portfolio as of December 31, 2013 are as follows:   

Mortgage
loans are evaluated for impairment on a specific loan basis through a quarterly credit monitoring process and review of key credit quality indicators. Mortgage loans are
considered impaired when it is probable that the Company will not collect the contractual principal and interest. Valuation allowances are established for impaired loans to reduce the carrying value
to the fair value of the collateral less costs to sell or the present value of the loan's expected future repayment cash flows discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate. Impaired
mortgage loans may not have a valuation allowance when the fair value of the collateral less costs to sell is higher than the carrying value. Valuation allowances are adjusted for subsequent changes
in the fair value of the collateral less costs to sell. Mortgage loans are charged off against their corresponding valuation allowances when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. The
impairment evaluation is non-statistical in respect to the aggregate portfolio but considers facts and circumstances attributable to each loan. It is not considered probable that additional impairment
losses, beyond those identified on a specific loan basis, have been incurred as of December 31, 2013.   

Accrual
of income is suspended for mortgage loans that are in default or when full and timely collection of principal and interest payments is not probable. Cash receipts on mortgage
loans on nonaccrual status are generally recorded as a reduction of carrying value.   

         Debt
service coverage ratio is considered a key credit quality indicator when mortgage loans are evaluated for impairment. Debt service coverage ratio represents the amount of estimated
cash flows from the property available to the borrower to meet principal and interest payment obligations. Debt service coverage ratio estimates are updated annually or more frequently if conditions
are warranted based on the Company's credit monitoring process.   

  134  

Table of Contents   

The
following table reflects the carrying value of non-impaired fixed rate and variable rate mortgage loans summarized by debt service coverage ratio distribution as of
December 31:   

Mortgage
loans with a debt service coverage ratio below 1.0 that are not considered impaired primarily relate to instances where the borrower has the financial capacity to fund the
revenue shortfalls from the properties for the foreseeable term, the decrease in cash flows from the properties is considered temporary, or there are other risk mitigating circumstances such as
additional collateral, escrow balances or borrower guarantees.   

         The
net carrying value of impaired mortgage loans as of December 31 is as follows:   

The
average balance of impaired loans was $88 million, $202 million and $210 million during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

The
rollforward of the valuation allowance on impaired mortgage loans for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

The
carrying value of past due mortgage loans as of December 31 is as follows:   

Municipal bonds     

         The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of municipal bonds. The following table shows the principal geographic distribution of
municipal bond issuers represented in the Company's portfolio as of December 31. No other state represents more than 5% of the portfolio.   

135  

Table of Contents   

Concentration of credit risk     

         As of December 31, 2013, the Company is not exposed to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer and its affiliates
greater than 10% of the Company's shareholders' equity.   

    Securities loaned     

         The Company's business activities include securities lending programs with third parties, mostly large banks. As of December 31,
2013 and 2012, fixed income and equity securities with a carrying value of $590 million and $760 million, respectively, were on loan under these agreements. Interest income on
collateral, net of fees, was $2 million in each of 2013, 2012 and 2011.   

    Other investment information     

         Included in fixed income securities are below investment grade assets totaling $6.44 billion and $6.62 billion as of
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

         As
of December 31, 2013, fixed income securities and short-term investments with a carrying value of $258 million were on deposit with regulatory authorities as required by
law.   

         As
of December 31, 2013, the carrying value of fixed income securities that were non-income producing was $48 million.   

   7.    Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities     

         Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
at the measurement date. The hierarchy for inputs used in determining fair value maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that observable inputs
be used when available. Assets and liabilities recorded on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at fair value are categorized in the fair value hierarchy based on the observability of
inputs to the valuation techniques as follows:   

Level 1:   
     
  Assets and liabilities whose values are based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market that the Company can access.  

Level 2:   
      
   Assets and liabilities whose values are based on the following:  

(a)  
      
   Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets;  

(b)  
      
   Quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; or  

(c)  
      
   Valuation models whose inputs are observable, directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.  

Level 3:   

Assets and liabilities whose values are based on prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement. Unobservable inputs reflect the
Company's estimates of the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the assets and liabilities.  

The
availability of observable inputs varies by instrument. In situations where fair value is based on internally developed pricing models or inputs that are unobservable in the market,
the determination of fair value requires more judgment. The degree of judgment exercised by the Company in determining fair value is typically greatest for instruments categorized in Level 3.
In many instances, valuation inputs used to measure fair value fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. The category level in the fair value hierarchy is determined based on the lowest
level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The Company uses prices and inputs that are current as of the measurement date, including during periods of market
disruption. In periods of market disruption, the ability to observe prices and inputs may be reduced for many instruments.   

         The
Company is responsible for the determination of fair value and the supporting assumptions and methodologies. The Company gains assurance that assets and liabilities are appropriately
valued through the execution of various processes and controls designed to ensure the overall reasonableness and consistent application of valuation methodologies, including inputs and assumptions,
and compliance with accounting standards. For fair values received from third parties or internally estimated, the Company's processes and controls are designed to ensure that the valuation
methodologies are appropriate and consistently applied, the inputs and assumptions are reasonable and consistent with the objective of determining fair value, and the fair values are accurately
recorded. For example, on a   

  136  

Table of Contents   

  continuing
basis, the Company assesses the reasonableness of individual fair values that have stale security prices or that exceed certain thresholds as compared to previous fair values received from
valuation service providers or brokers or derived from internal models. The Company performs procedures to understand and assess the methodologies, processes and controls of valuation service
providers. In addition, the Company may validate the reasonableness of fair values by comparing information obtained
from valuation service providers or brokers to other third party valuation sources for selected securities. The Company performs ongoing price validation procedures such as back-testing of actual
sales, which corroborate the various inputs used in internal models to market observable data. When fair value determinations are expected to be more variable, the Company validates them through
reviews by members of management who have relevant expertise and who are independent of those charged with executing investment transactions.   

The
Company has two types of situations where investments are classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. The first is where quotes continue to be received from independent
third-party valuation service providers and all significant inputs are market observable; however, there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for the asset when compared
to normal market activity such that the degree of market observability has declined to a point where categorization as a Level 3 measurement is considered appropriate. The indicators considered
in determining whether a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for a specific asset has occurred include the level of new issuances in the primary market, trading volume in the
secondary market, the level of credit spreads over historical levels, applicable bid-ask spreads, and price consensus among market participants and other pricing sources.   

         The
second situation where the Company classifies securities in Level 3 is where specific inputs significant to the fair value estimation models are not market observable. This
primarily occurs in the Company's use of broker quotes to value certain securities where the inputs have not been corroborated to be market observable, and the use of valuation models that use
significant non-market observable inputs.   

         Certain
assets are not carried at fair value on a recurring basis, including investments such as mortgage loans, limited partnership interests, bank loans and policy loans. Accordingly,
such investments are only included in the fair value hierarchy disclosure when the investment is subject to remeasurement at fair value after initial recognition and the resulting remeasurement is
reflected in the consolidated financial statements. In addition, derivatives embedded in fixed income securities are not disclosed in the hierarchy as free-standing derivatives since they are
presented with the host contracts in fixed income securities.   

         In
determining fair value, the Company principally uses the market approach which generally utilizes market transaction data for the same or similar instruments. To a lesser extent, the
Company uses the income approach which involves determining fair values from discounted cash flow methodologies. For the majority of Level 2 and Level 3 valuations, a combination of the
market and income approaches is used.   

    Summary of significant valuation techniques for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis     

   Level 1
measurements    

Fixed income securities:   Comprise certain U.S. Treasuries. Valuation is based on
unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets in active markets that the Company can access.   
            Equity securities:   Comprise actively traded, exchange-listed equity securities.
Valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets in active markets that the Company can access.   
            Short-term:   Comprise actively traded money market funds that have daily quoted
net asset values for identical assets that the Company can access.   
            Separate account assets:   Comprise actively traded mutual funds that have daily
quoted net asset values for identical assets that the Company can access. Net asset values for the actively traded mutual funds in which the separate account assets are invested are obtained daily
from the fund managers.   
            Assets held for sale:   Comprise U.S. Treasury fixed income securities, short-term
investments and separate account assets. The valuation is based on the respective asset type as described above.    

Level 2
measurements    

Fixed income securities:     

U.S. government and agencies:     The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are
not active, contractual cash flows, benchmark yields and credit spreads.   

137  

Table of Contents   

Municipal:     The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active,
contractual cash flows, benchmark yields and credit spreads.   

   Corporate, including privately placed:     The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets
that are not active, contractual cash flows, benchmark yields and credit spreads. Also included are privately placed securities valued using a discounted cash flow model that is widely accepted in the
financial services industry and uses market observable inputs and inputs derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data. The primary inputs to the discounted cash flow model
include an interest rate yield curve, as well as published credit spreads for similar assets in markets that are not active that incorporate the credit quality and industry sector of the issuer.   

   Foreign government:     The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not
active, contractual cash flows, benchmark yields and credit spreads.   

   ABS and RMBS:     The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active,
contractual cash flows, benchmark yields, prepayment speeds, collateral performance and credit spreads. Certain ABS are valued based on non-binding broker quotes whose inputs have been corroborated to
be market observable.   

   CMBS:     The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, contractual
cash flows, benchmark yields, collateral performance and credit spreads.   

   Redeemable preferred stock:     The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are
not active, contractual cash flows, benchmark yields, underlying stock prices and credit spreads.   

Equity securities:   The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices or
quoted net asset values for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active.   
            Short-term:   The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for
identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, contractual cash flows, benchmark yields and credit spreads. For certain short-term investments, amortized cost is used as the best estimate
of fair value.   
            Other investments:   Free-standing exchange listed derivatives that are not
actively traded are valued based on quoted prices for identical instruments in markets that are not active.    

OTC
derivatives, including interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, certain options and certain credit default swaps, are valued using models that rely on
inputs such as interest rate yield curves, currency rates, and counterparty credit spreads that are observable for substantially the full term of the contract. The valuation techniques underlying the
models are widely accepted in the financial services industry and do not involve significant judgment.   

Assets held for sale:   Comprise U.S. government and agencies, municipal,
corporate, foreign government, ABS, RMBS and CMBS fixed income securities, and short-term investments. The valuation is based on the respective asset type as described above.    

Level 3
measurements    

Fixed income securities:       

Municipal:     Municipal bonds that are not rated by third party credit rating agencies but are rated by the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners ("NAIC"). The primary inputs to the valuation of these municipal bonds include quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that exhibit less liquidity relative to those
markets supporting Level 2 fair value measurements, contractual cash flows, benchmark yields and credit spreads. Also includes auction rate securities ("ARS") primarily backed by student loans
that have become illiquid due to failures in the auction market are valued using a discounted cash flow model that is widely accepted in the financial services industry and uses significant non-market
observable inputs, including the anticipated date liquidity will return to the market.   

   Corporate, including privately placed:     Primarily valued based on non-binding broker quotes where the inputs have not been corroborated to
be market observable. Also included are equity-indexed notes which are
valued using a discounted cash flow model that is widely accepted in the financial services industry and uses significant non-market observable inputs, such as volatility. Other inputs include an
interest rate yield curve, as   

138  

Table of Contents   

well
as published credit spreads for similar assets that incorporate the credit quality and industry sector of the issuer.   

   ABS, RMBS and CMBS:     Valued based on non-binding broker quotes received from brokers who are familiar with the investments and where the
inputs have not been corroborated to be market observable.   

Equity securities:   The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices or
quoted net asset values for identical or similar assets in markets that exhibit less liquidity relative to those markets supporting Level 2 fair value measurements.   
            Other investments:   Certain OTC derivatives, such as interest rate caps, certain
credit default swaps and certain options (including swaptions), are valued using models that are widely accepted in the financial services industry. These are categorized as Level 3 as a result
of the significance of non-market observable inputs such as volatility. Other primary inputs include interest rate yield curves and credit spreads.   
            Assets held for sale:   Comprise municipal, corporate, ABS and CMBS fixed income
securities. The valuation is based on the respective asset type as described above.   
            Contractholder funds:   Derivatives embedded in certain life and annuity contracts
are valued internally using models widely accepted in the financial services industry that determine a single best estimate of fair value for the embedded derivatives within a block of contractholder
liabilities. The models primarily use stochastically determined cash flows based on the contractual elements of embedded derivatives, projected option cost and applicable market data, such as interest
rate yield curves and equity index volatility assumptions. These are categorized as Level 3 as a result of the significance of non-market observable inputs.    
            Liabilities held for sale:   Comprise derivatives embedded in life and annuity
contracts. The valuation is the same as described above for contractholder funds.    

Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis     

         Mortgage loans written-down to fair value in connection with recognizing impairments are valued based on the fair value of the
underlying collateral less costs to sell. Limited partnership interests written-down to fair value in connection with recognizing other-than-temporary impairments are valued using net asset values.
The carrying value of the LBL business was written-down to fair value in connection with being classified as held for sale.   

  139  

Table of Contents    

         The following table summarizes the Company's assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring and non-recurring basis as of December 31, 2013:   

(1)     Includes
$8 million of mortgage loans and $16 million of limited partnership interests written-down to fair value in connection
with recognizing other-than-temporary impairments.       (2)     Relates
to LBL business held for sale (see Note 4). The total fair value measurement includes $15,593 million of assets held for
sale and $(14,899) million of liabilities held for sale, less $12,028 million of assets and $(246) million of liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis.    

140  

Table of Contents   

         The
following table summarizes the Company's assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring and non-recurring basis as of December 31, 2012.   

(1)     Includes
$4 million of mortgage loans, $4 million of limited partnership interests and $1 million of other investments
written-down to fair value in connection with recognizing other-than-temporary impairments.    

The
following table summarizes quantitative information about the significant unobservable inputs used in Level 3 fair value measurements.   

($ in millions) 

Fair value    
     
   Valuation 
technique    
     
   Unobservable 
input    
     
   Range    
     
   Weighted 
average    

December 31, 2013   

Derivatives embedded in life and annuity contracts   Equity-indexed and forward starting options  
     
  $  
  (247  
  )  
  Stochastic cash flow model  
     
  Projected option cost  
     
  1.0 - 2.0%  
     
  1.75%  

Liabilities held for sale   Equity-indexed and forward starting options  
     
   $  
   
(246  
   )  
      Stochastic cash flow model  
     
      Projected option cost  
     
      1.0 - 2.0%  
     
      1.91%  

December 31, 2012   

ARS backed by student loans  
     
  $  
  394  
     
  Discounted cash flow model  
     
  Anticipated date liquidity will return to the market  
     
  18 - 60 months  
     
  31 - 43 months  

Derivatives embedded in life and annuity contracts   Equity-indexed and forward starting options  
     
   $  
   
(419  
   )  
      Stochastic cash flow model  
     
      Projected option cost  
     
      1.0 - 2.0%  
     
      1.92%  

If
the anticipated date liquidity will return to the market is sooner (later), it would result in a higher (lower) fair value. If the projected option cost increased (decreased), it
would result in a higher (lower) liability fair value.   

  141  

Table of Contents   

         As
of December 31, 2013 and 2012, Level 3 fair value measurements include $1.27 billion and $1.87 billion, respectively, of fixed income securities valued
based on non-binding broker quotes where the inputs have not been corroborated to be market observable and $208 million and $395 million, respectively, of municipal fixed income
securities that are not rated by third party credit rating agencies. As of December 31, 2013, Level 3 fair value measurements for assets held for sale include $319 million of
fixed income securities valued based on non-binding broker quotes where the inputs have not been corroborated to be market observable. The Company does not develop the unobservable inputs used in
measuring fair value; therefore, these are not included in the table above. However, an increase (decrease) in credit spreads for fixed income securities valued based on non-binding broker quotes
would result in a lower (higher) fair value, and an increase (decrease) in the credit rating of municipal bonds that are not rated by third party credit rating agencies would result in a higher
(lower) fair value.   

         The
following table presents the rollforward of Level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value on a recurring basis during the year ended December 31, 2013.   

142  

Table of Contents   

(1)     The
effect to net income totals $129 million and is reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as follows: $3 million
in realized capital gains and losses, $18 million in net investment income, $40 million in interest credited to contractholder funds, $74 million in life and annuity contract
benefits and $(6) million in loss on disposition of operations.       (2)     Represents
purchases for assets and issues for liabilities.       (3)     Comprises
$9 million of assets and $14 million of liabilities.    

143  

Table of Contents   

         The
following table presents the rollforward of Level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value on a recurring basis during the year ended December 31, 2012.   

(1)     The
effect to net income totals $195 million and is reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as follows:
$27 million in net investment income, $132 million in interest credited to contractholder funds and $36 million in life and annuity contract benefits.       (2)     Comprises
$3 million of assets and $30 million of liabilities.    

144  

Table of Contents   

         The
following table presents the rollforward of Level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value on a recurring basis during the year ended December 31, 2011.   

(1)     The
effect to net income totals $(323) million and is reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as follows:
$(221) million in realized capital gains and losses, $36 million in net investment income, $(106) million in interest credited to contractholder funds and $(32) million in life
and annuity contract benefits.       (2)     Comprises
$1 million of assets and $96 million of liabilities.    

Transfers
between level categorizations may occur due to changes in the availability of market observable inputs, which generally are caused by changes in market conditions such as
liquidity, trading volume or bid-ask spreads. Transfers between level categorizations may also occur due to changes in the valuation source. For example, in situations where a   

  145  

Table of Contents   

  fair
value quote is not provided by the Company's independent third-party valuation service provider and as a result the price is stale or has been replaced with a broker quote whose inputs have not
been corroborated to be market observable, the security is transferred into Level 3. Transfers in and out of level categorizations are reported as having occurred at the beginning of the
quarter in which the transfer occurred. Therefore, for all transfers into Level 3, all
realized and changes in unrealized gains and losses in the quarter of transfer are reflected in the Level 3 rollforward table.   

There
were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during 2013 or 2011. During 2012, certain U.S. government securities were transferred into Level 1 from
Level 2 as a result of increased liquidity in the market and a sustained increase in the market activity for these assets.   

         During
2011, certain ABS, RMBS and CMBS were transferred into Level 2 from Level 3 as a result of increased liquidity in the market and a sustained increase in the market
activity for these assets. Additionally, in 2011 certain ABS that were valued based on non-binding broker quotes were transferred into Level 2 from Level 3 since the inputs were
corroborated to be market observable.   

         Transfers
into Level 3 during 2013, 2012 and 2011 included situations where a fair value quote was not provided by the Company's independent third-party valuation service provider
and as a result the price was stale or had been replaced with a broker quote where the inputs had not been corroborated to be market observable resulting in the security being classified as
Level 3. Transfers out of Level 3 during 2013, 2012 and 2011 included situations where a broker quote was used in the prior period and a fair value quote became available from the
Company's independent third-party valuation service provider in the current period. A quote utilizing the new pricing source was not available as of the prior period, and any gains or losses related
to the change in valuation source for individual securities were not significant.   

         The
following table provides the change in unrealized gains and losses included in net income for Level 3 assets and liabilities held as of December 31.   

The
amounts in the table above represent the change in unrealized gains and losses included in net income for the period of time that the asset or liability was determined to be in
Level 3. These gains and losses total $106 million in 2013 and are reported as follows: $(9) million in realized capital gains and losses, $12 million in net investment income,
$35 million in interest credited to contractholder funds, $74 million in life and annuity contract benefits and $(6) million in loss on disposition of operations. These gains and losses
total $151 million in 2012 and are reported as follows: $(37) million in realized capital gains and losses, $21 million in net investment income, $131 million in interest credited
to contractholder funds and $36 million in life and annuity contract benefits. These gains and losses total $(237) million in 2011 and are reported as follows: $(147) million in
realized capital gains and losses, $44 million in net investment income, $(102) million in interest credited to contractholder funds and $(32) million in life and annuity contract
benefits.   

         Presented
below are the carrying values and fair value estimates of financial instruments not carried at fair value.   

  146  

Table of Contents   

    Financial assets     

The
fair value of mortgage loans, including those classified as assets held for sale, is based on discounted contractual cash flows or, if the loans are impaired due to credit reasons,
the fair value of collateral less costs to sell. Risk adjusted discount rates are selected using current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar characteristics, using
similar types of properties as collateral. The fair value of cost method limited partnerships is determined using reported net asset values of the underlying funds. The fair value of bank loans, which
are reported in other investments or assets held for sale, is based on broker quotes from brokers familiar with the loans and current market conditions. The fair value of agent loans, which are
reported in other investments, is based on discounted cash flow calculations that use discount rates with a spread over U.S. Treasury rates. Assumptions used in developing estimated cash flows and
discount rates consider the loan's credit and liquidity risks. The fair value measurements for mortgage loans, cost method limited partnerships, bank loans, agent loans and assets held for sale are
categorized as Level 3.   

    Financial liabilities     

The
fair value of contractholder funds on investment contracts, including those classified as liabilities held for sale, is based on the terms of the underlying contracts utilizing
prevailing market rates for similar contracts adjusted for the Company's own credit risk. Deferred annuities included in contractholder funds are valued using discounted cash flow models which
incorporate market value margins, which are based on the cost of holding economic capital, and the Company's own credit risk. Immediate annuities without life contingencies and fixed rate funding
agreements are valued at the present value of future benefits using market implied interest rates which include the Company's own credit risk. The fair value measurements for contractholder funds on
investment contracts and liabilities held for sale are categorized as Level 3.   

         The
fair value of long-term debt is based on market observable data (such as the fair value of the debt when traded as an asset) or, in certain cases, is determined using discounted cash
flow calculations based on current interest rates for instruments with comparable terms and considers the Company's own credit risk. The liability for collateral is valued at carrying value due to its
short-term nature. The fair value measurements for long-term debt and liability for collateral are categorized as Level 2.   

   8.    Derivative Financial Instruments and Off-balance sheet Financial Instruments     

         The Company uses derivatives to manage risks with certain assets and liabilities arising from the potential adverse impacts from changes in risk-free interest
rates, changes in equity market valuations, increases in credit spreads and foreign currency fluctuations, and for asset replication. The Company does not use derivatives for speculative purposes.   

         Property-Liability
uses interest rate swaps, swaptions, futures and options to manage the interest rate risks of existing investments. Portfolio duration management is a risk management
strategy that is principally employed by Property-Liability wherein financial futures and interest rate swaps are utilized to change the duration of the portfolio in order to offset the economic
effect that interest rates would otherwise have on the fair value of its fixed income securities. Equity index futures and options are used by Property-Liability to offset valuation losses in the
equity portfolio during periods of declining equity market values. Credit default swaps are typically used to mitigate the credit risk within the Property-Liability fixed income portfolio.
Property-Liability uses equity futures to hedge the market risk related to deferred compensation liability contracts and forward contracts to hedge foreign currency risk associated with holding
foreign currency denominated investments and foreign operations.   

  147  

Table of Contents   

         Asset-liability
management is a risk management strategy that is principally employed by Allstate Financial to balance the respective interest-rate sensitivities of its assets and
liabilities. Depending upon the attributes of the assets acquired and liabilities issued, derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, swaptions and futures are utilized to change the
interest rate characteristics of existing assets and liabilities to ensure the relationship is maintained within specified ranges and to reduce exposure to rising or falling interest rates. Allstate
Financial uses financial futures and interest rate swaps to hedge anticipated asset purchases and liability issuances and futures and options for hedging the equity exposure contained in its equity
indexed life and annuity product contracts that offer equity returns to contractholders. In addition, Allstate Financial uses interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate risk inherent in funding
agreements. Allstate Financial uses foreign currency swaps and forwards primarily to reduce the foreign currency risk associated with issuing foreign currency denominated funding agreements and
holding foreign currency denominated investments. Credit default swaps are typically used to mitigate the credit risk within the Allstate Financial fixed income portfolio.   

The
Company may also use derivatives to manage the risk associated with corporate actions, including the sale of a business. During December 2013, swaptions were utilized to hedge the
expected proceeds from the pending disposition of LBL.   

         Asset
replication refers to the "synthetic" creation of assets through the use of derivatives and primarily investment grade host bonds to replicate securities that are either
unavailable in the cash markets or more economical to acquire in synthetic form. The Company replicates fixed income securities using a combination of a credit default swap and one or more highly
rated fixed income securities to synthetically replicate the economic characteristics of one or more cash market securities.   

The
Company also has derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts that are required to be separated from the host contracts and accounted for at fair value with changes in fair
value of embedded derivatives reported in net income. The Company's primary embedded derivatives are equity options in life and annuity product contracts, which provide equity returns to
contractholders; equity-indexed notes containing equity call options, which provide a coupon payout that is determined using one or more equity-based indices; credit default swaps in synthetic
collateralized debt obligations, which provide enhanced coupon rates as a result of selling credit protection; and conversion options in fixed income securities, which provide the Company with the
right to convert the instrument into a predetermined number of shares of common stock.   

When
derivatives meet specific criteria, they may be designated as accounting hedges and accounted for as fair value, cash flow, foreign currency fair value or foreign currency cash flow
hedges. Allstate Financial designates certain of its interest rate and foreign currency swap contracts and certain investment risk transfer reinsurance agreements as fair value hedges when the hedging
instrument is highly effective in offsetting the risk of changes in the fair value of the hedged item. Allstate Financial designates certain of its foreign currency swap contracts as cash flow hedges
when the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting the exposure of variations in cash flows for the hedged risk that could affect net income. Amounts are reclassified to net investment
income or realized capital gains and losses as the hedged item affects net income.   

The
notional amounts specified in the contracts are used to calculate the exchange of contractual payments under the agreements and are generally not representative of the potential for
gain or loss on these agreements. However, the notional amounts specified in credit default swaps where the Company has sold credit protection represent the maximum amount of potential loss, assuming
no recoveries.   

         Fair
value, which is equal to the carrying value, is the estimated amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the derivative contracts at the reporting date. The carrying
value amounts for OTC derivatives are further adjusted for the effects, if any, of enforceable master netting agreements and are presented on a net basis, by counterparty agreement, in the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. For certain exchange traded and cleared derivatives, margin deposits are required as well as daily cash settlements of margin accounts. As of
December 31, 2013, the Company pledged $12 million of cash and securities in the form of margin deposits.   

         For
those derivatives which qualify for fair value hedge accounting, net income includes the changes in the fair value of both the derivative instrument and the hedged risk, and
therefore reflects any hedging ineffectiveness. For cash flow hedges, gains and losses are amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income and are reported in net income in the same period the
forecasted transactions being hedged impact net income.   

         Non-hedge
accounting is generally used for "portfolio" level hedging strategies where the terms of the individual hedged items do not meet the strict homogeneity requirements to permit
the application of hedge accounting. For non-hedge derivatives, net income includes changes in fair value and accrued periodic settlements, when applicable. With the exception of non-hedge derivatives
used for asset replication and non-hedge embedded derivatives, all of the Company's derivatives are evaluated for their ongoing effectiveness as either accounting hedge or non-hedge derivative
financial instruments on at least a quarterly basis.   

  148  

Table of Contents    

         The following table provides a summary of the volume and fair value positions of derivative instruments as well as their reporting location in the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position as of December 31, 2013.   

(1)     Volume
for OTC derivative contracts is represented by their notional amounts. Volume for exchange traded derivatives is represented by the
number of contracts, which is the basis on which they are traded. (n/a = not applicable)       (2)     In
addition to the number of contracts presented in the table, the Company held 6,160 stock rights and 1,232,420 stock warrants. Stock rights
and warrants can be converted to cash upon sale of those instruments or exercised for shares of common stock.    

149  

Table of Contents   

         The
following table provides a summary of the volume and fair value positions of derivative instruments as well as their reporting location in the Consolidated Statement of Financial
Position as of December 31, 2012.   

(1)     Volume
for OTC derivative contracts is represented by their notional amounts. Volume for exchange traded derivatives is represented by the
number of contracts, which is the basis on which they are traded. (n/a = not applicable)       (2)     In
addition to the number of contracts presented in the table, the Company held 34,634 stock rights and 879,158 stock warrants. Stock rights
and warrants can be converted to cash upon sale of those instruments or exercised for shares of common stock.    

150  

Table of Contents   

         The
following table provides gross and net amounts for the Company's OTC derivatives, all of which are subject to enforceable master netting agreements.   

The
following table provides a summary of the impacts of the Company's foreign currency contracts in cash flow hedging relationships for the years ended December 31.   

($ in millions)      
     
   2013    
     
   2012    
     
   2011    

Gain (loss) recognized in OCI on derivatives during the period  
     
  $  
  3  
     
  $  
  (6  
  )  
  $  
  4  

Loss recognized in OCI on derivatives during the term of the hedging relationship  

(18  
  )  
     
  (22  
  )  
     
  (17  
  )  

Loss reclassified from AOCI into income (net investment income)  

(1  
  )  

Loss reclassified from AOCI into income (realized capital gains and losses)  

(1  
  )  
     
  (1  
  )  

Amortization
of net losses from accumulated other comprehensive income related to cash flow hedges is expected to be $2 million during the next twelve months. There was no hedge
ineffectiveness reported in realized gains and losses in 2013, 2012 or 2011.   

         The
following tables present gains and losses from valuation, settlements and hedge ineffectiveness reported on derivatives used in fair value hedging relationships and derivatives not
designated as accounting hedging instruments in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31. In 2013, the Company had no derivatives used in fair value hedging
relationships.   

151  

Table of Contents   

152  

Table of Contents   

The
following table provides a summary of the changes in fair value of the Company's fair value hedging relationships in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
December 31.   

($ in millions)    
     
   Gain (loss) on derivatives    
     
   Gain (loss) on hedged risk    

Location of gain or (loss) recognized 
in net income on derivatives

Interest 
rate 
contracts    
     
   Foreign 
currency   
interest rate 
contracts    
     
   Contractholder 
funds    
     
   Investments    

2012   

Net investment income  
     
  $  
  3  
     
  $  

$  

$  
  (3  
  )  

Total  
     
  $  
  3  
     
  $  

$  

$  
  (3  
  )  

2011   

Interest credited to contractholder funds  
     
  $  
  (7  
  )  
  $  
  (34  
  )  
  $  
  41  
     
  $  

Net investment income  

26  

(26  
  )  

Realized capital gains and losses  

(8  
  )  

Total  
     
  $  
  11  
     
  $  
  (34  
  )  
  $  
  41  
     
  $  
  (26  
  )  

The
Company manages its exposure to credit risk by utilizing highly rated counterparties, establishing risk control limits, executing legally enforceable master netting agreements
("MNAs") and obtaining collateral where appropriate. The Company uses MNAs for OTC derivative transactions that permit either party to net payments due for transactions and collateral is either
pledged or obtained when certain predetermined exposure limits are exceeded. As of December 31, 2013, counterparties pledged $17 million in cash and securities to the Company, and the
Company pledged $23 million in securities to counterparties which includes $14 million of collateral posted under MNAs for contracts containing credit-risk-contingent provisions that are
in a liability position and $9 million of collateral posted under MNAs for contracts without credit-risk-contingent liabilities. The Company has not incurred any losses on derivative financial
instruments due to counterparty nonperformance. Other derivatives, including futures and certain option contracts, are traded on organized exchanges which require margin deposits and guarantee the
execution of trades, thereby mitigating any potential credit risk.   

         Counterparty
credit exposure represents the Company's potential loss if all of the counterparties concurrently fail to perform under the contractual terms of the contracts and all
collateral, if any, becomes worthless. This exposure is measured by the fair value of OTC derivative contracts with a positive fair value at the reporting date reduced by the effect, if any, of
legally enforceable master netting agreements.   

         The
following table summarizes the counterparty credit exposure as of December 31 by counterparty credit rating as it relates to the Company's OTC derivatives.   

(1)     Rating
is the lower of S P or Moody's ratings.       (2)     Only
OTC derivatives with a net positive fair value are included for each counterparty.    

Market
risk is the risk that the Company will incur losses due to adverse changes in market rates and prices. Market risk exists for all of the derivative financial instruments the
Company currently holds, as these instruments may become less valuable due to adverse changes in market conditions. To limit this risk, the Company's senior management has established risk control
limits. In addition, changes in fair value of the derivative financial instruments that the Company uses for risk management purposes are generally offset by the change in the fair value or cash flows
of the hedged risk component of the related assets, liabilities or forecasted transactions.   

  153  

Table of Contents   

         Certain
of the Company's derivative instruments contain credit-risk-contingent termination events, cross-default provisions and credit support annex agreements. Credit-risk-contingent
termination events allow the counterparties to terminate the derivative on certain dates if AIC's, ALIC's or Allstate Life Insurance Company of New York's ("ALNY") financial strength credit ratings by
Moody's or S P fall below a certain level or in the event AIC, ALIC or ALNY are no longer rated by either Moody's or S P. Credit-risk-contingent cross-default provisions allow the counterparties to
terminate the derivative instruments if the Company defaults by pre-determined threshold amounts on certain debt instruments. Credit-risk-contingent credit support annex agreements specify the amount
of collateral the Company must post to counterparties based on AIC's, ALIC's or ALNY's financial strength credit ratings by Moody's or S P, or in the event AIC, ALIC or ALNY are no longer rated by
either Moody's or S P.   

         The
following summarizes the fair value of derivative instruments with termination, cross-default or collateral credit-risk-contingent features that are in a liability position as of
December 31, as well as the fair value of assets and collateral that are netted against the liability in accordance with provisions within legally enforceable MNAs.   

($ in millions)    
     
   2013    
     
   2012    

Gross liability fair value of contracts containing credit-risk-contingent features  
     
  $  
  28  
     
  $  
  65  

Gross asset fair value of contracts containing credit-risk-contingent features and subject to MNAs  

(11  
  )  
     
  (31  
  )  

Collateral posted under MNAs for contracts containing credit-risk-contingent features  

(14  
  )  
     
  (25  
  )  

Maximum amount of additional exposure for contracts with credit-risk-contingent features if all features were triggered concurrently  
     
  $  
  3  
     
  $  
  9  

Credit derivatives   selling protection     

         Free-standing credit default swaps ("CDS") are utilized for selling credit protection against a specified credit event. A credit
default swap is a derivative instrument, representing an agreement between two parties to exchange the credit risk of a specified entity (or a group of entities), or an index based on the credit risk
of a group of entities (all commonly referred to as the "reference entity" or a portfolio of "reference
entities"), in return for a periodic premium. In selling protection, CDS are used to replicate fixed income securities and to complement the cash market when credit exposure to certain issuers is not
available or when the derivative alternative is less expensive than the cash market alternative. CDS typically have a five-year term.   

  154  

Table of Contents   

         The
following table shows the CDS notional amounts by credit rating and fair value of protection sold.   

(1)     Investment
grade corporate debt categorization is based on the rating of the underlying name(s) at initial purchase.    

In
selling protection with CDS, the Company sells credit protection on an identified single name, a basket of names in a first-to-default ("FTD") structure or a specific tranche of a
basket, or credit derivative index ("CDX") that is generally investment grade, and in return receives periodic premiums through expiration or termination of the agreement. With single name CDS, this
premium or credit spread generally corresponds to the difference between the yield on the reference entity's public fixed maturity cash instruments and swap rates at the time the agreement is
executed. With a FTD basket or a tranche of a basket, because of the additional credit risk inherent in a basket of named reference entities, the premium generally corresponds to a high proportion of
the sum of the credit spreads of the names in the basket and the correlation between the names. CDX is utilized to take a position on multiple (generally 125) reference entities. Credit events are
typically defined as bankruptcy, failure to pay, or restructuring, depending on the nature of the reference entities. If a credit event occurs, the Company settles with the counterparty, either
through physical settlement or cash settlement. In a physical settlement, a reference asset is delivered by the buyer of protection to the Company, in exchange for cash payment at par, whereas in a
cash settlement, the Company pays the difference between par and the prescribed value of the reference asset. When a credit event occurs in a single name or FTD basket (for FTD, the first credit event
occurring for any one name in the basket), the contract terminates at the time of settlement. When a credit event occurs in a tranche of a basket, there is no immediate impact to the Company until
cumulative losses in the basket exceed the contractual subordination. To date, realized losses have not exceeded the subordination. For CDX, the reference entity's name incurring the credit event is
removed from the index while the contract continues until expiration. The maximum payout on a CDS is the contract notional amount. A physical settlement may afford the Company with recovery rights as
the new owner of the asset.   

         The
Company monitors risk associated with credit derivatives through individual name credit limits at both a credit derivative and a combined cash instrument/credit derivative level. The
ratings of individual names for which protection has been sold are also monitored.   

In
addition to the CDS described above, the Company's synthetic collateralized debt obligations contain embedded credit default swaps which sell protection on a basket of reference
entities. The synthetic collateralized debt obligations are fully funded; therefore, the Company is not obligated to contribute additional funds when credit events occur related to the reference
entities named in the embedded credit default swaps. The Company's maximum amount at risk equals the amount of its aggregate initial investment in the synthetic collateralized debt obligations.   

  155  

Table of Contents    

    Off-balance sheet financial instruments     

The contractual amounts of off-balance sheet financial instruments as of December 31 are as follows:   

In
the preceding table, the contractual amounts represent the amount at risk if the contract is fully drawn upon, the counterparty defaults and the value of any underlying security
becomes worthless. Unless noted otherwise, the Company does not require collateral or other security to support off-balance sheet financial instruments with credit risk.   

         Commitments
to invest in limited partnership interests represent agreements to acquire new or additional participation in certain limited partnership investments. The Company enters into
these agreements in the normal course of business. Because the investments in limited partnerships are not actively traded, it is not practical to estimate the fair value of these commitments.   

         Commitments
to extend mortgage loans are agreements to lend to a borrower provided there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. The Company enters into these
agreements to commit to future loan fundings at a predetermined interest rate. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses. The fair value of commitments to extend
mortgage loans, which are secured by the underlying properties, is zero as of December 31, 2013, and is valued based on estimates of fees charged by other institutions to make similar
commitments to similar borrowers.   

         Private
placement commitments represent conditional commitments to purchase private placement debt and equity securities at a specified future date. The Company enters into these
agreements in the normal course of business. The fair value of these commitments generally cannot be estimated on the date the commitment is made as the terms and conditions of the underlying private
placement securities are not yet final.   

         Other
loan commitments are agreements to lend to a borrower provided there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. The Company enters into these agreements to
commit to future loan fundings at predetermined interest rates. Commitments generally have varying expiration dates or other termination clauses. The fair value of these commitments is insignificant.   

   9.    Reserve for Property-Liability Insurance Claims and Claims Expense     

         The Company establishes reserves for claims and claims expense on reported and unreported claims of insured losses. The Company's reserving process takes into
account known facts and interpretations of circumstances and factors including the Company's experience with similar cases, actual claims paid, historical trends involving claim payment patterns and
pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management programs, product mix and contractual terms, changes in law and regulation, judicial decisions, and economic conditions. In the normal course of
business, the Company may also supplement its claims processes by utilizing third party adjusters, appraisers, engineers, inspectors, and other professionals and information sources to assess and
settle catastrophe and non-catastrophe related claims. The effects of inflation are implicitly considered in the reserving process.   

         Because
reserves are estimates of unpaid portions of losses that have occurred, including incurred but not reported ("IBNR") losses, the establishment of appropriate reserves, including
reserves for catastrophes, is an inherently uncertain and complex process. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded amounts, which are based on management's best estimates. The
highest degree of uncertainty is associated with reserves for losses incurred in the current reporting period as it contains the greatest proportion of losses that have not been reported or settled.
The Company regularly updates its reserve estimates as new information becomes available and as events unfold that may affect the resolution of unsettled claims. Changes in prior year reserve
estimates, which may be material, are reported in property-liability insurance claims and claims expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period such changes are determined.   

  156  

Table of Contents   

         Activity
in the reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense is summarized as follows:   

(1)     The
Esurance opening balance sheet reserves wer e reestimated in 2012 resulting in a reduction in reserves due to lower severity. The
adjustment was recorded as a reduction in goodwill and an increase in payables to the seller under the terms of the purchase agreement and therefore had no impact on claims expense.    

Incurred
claims and claims expense represents the sum of paid losses and reserve changes in the calendar year. This expense includes losses from catastrophes of $1.25 billion,
$2.35 billion and $3.82 billion in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, net of reinsurance and other recoveries (see Note 11). Catastrophes are an inherent risk of the
property-liability insurance business that have contributed to, and will continue to contribute to, material year-to-year fluctuations in the Company's results of operations and financial position.   

The
Company calculates and records a single best reserve estimate for losses from catastrophes, in conformance with generally accepted actuarial standards. As a result, management
believes that no other estimate is better than the recorded amount. Due to the uncertainties involved, including the factors described above, the ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from
recorded amounts, which are based on management's best estimates.
Accordingly, management believes that it is not practical to develop a meaningful range for any such changes in losses incurred.   

         During
2013, incurred claims and claims expense related to prior years was primarily composed of net decreases in auto reserves of $237 million primarily due to claim severity
development that was better than expected, net decreases in homeowners reserves of $5 million due to favorable non-catastrophe reserve reestimates, net decreases in other reserves of
$21 million, and net increases in Discontinued Lines and Coverages reserves of $142 million. Incurred claims and claims expense includes favorable catastrophe loss reestimates of
$88 million, net of reinsurance and other recoveries.   

         During
2012, incurred claims and claims expense related to prior years was primarily composed of net decreases in auto reserves of $365 million primarily due to claim severity
development that was better than expected, net decreases in homeowners reserves of $321 million due to favorable catastrophe reserve reestimates, net decreases in other reserves of
$30 million, and net increases in Discontinued Lines and Coverages reserves of $51 million. Incurred claims and claims expense includes favorable catastrophe loss reestimates of
$410 million, net of reinsurance and other recoveries.   

         During
2011, incurred claims and claims expense related to prior years was primarily composed of net decreases in auto reserves of $381 million primarily due to claim severity
development that was better than expected, net decreases in homeowners reserves of $69 million due to favorable catastrophe reserve reestimates, net increases in other reserves of
$94 million, and net increases in Discontinued Lines and Coverages reserves of $21 million. Incurred claims and claims expense includes favorable catastrophe loss reestimates of
$130 million, net of reinsurance and other recoveries.   

         Management
believes that the reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense, net of reinsurance recoverables, is appropriately established in the aggregate and
adequate to cover the ultimate net cost of reported and   

  157  

Table of Contents   

  unreported
claims arising from losses which had occurred by the date of the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position based on available facts, technology, laws and regulations.   

         For
further discussion of asbestos and environmental reserves, see Note 15.   

   10.  Reserve for Life-Contingent Contract Benefits and Contractholder Funds     

As of December 31, the reserve for life-contingent contract benefits consists of the following:   

The
following table highlights the key assumptions generally used in calculating the reserve for life-contingent contract benefits:   

Product    
     
   Mortality    
     
   Interest rate    
     
   Estimation method    

Structured settlement annuities  
     
  U.S. population with projected calendar year improvements; mortality rates adjusted for each impaired life based on reduction in life expectancy  
     
  Interest rate assumptions range from 0% to 9.0%  
     
  Present value of contractually specified future benefits  

Other immediate fixed annuities  
     
      1983 group annuity mortality table with internal modifications; 1983 individual annuity mortality table; Annuity 2000 mortality
table with internal modifications; Annuity 2000 mortality table; 1983 individual annuity mortality table with internal modifications  
     
      Interest rate assumptions range from 0% to 11.5%  
     
      Present value of expected future benefits based on historical experience  

Traditional life insurance  
     
      Actual company experience plus loading  
     
      Interest rate assumptions range from 2.5% to 11.3%  
     
      Net level premium reserve method using the Company's withdrawal experience rates; includes reserves for unpaid claims  

Accident and health insurance  
     
      Actual company experience plus loading  
     
      Interest rate assumptions range from 3.0% to 7.0%  
     
      Unearned premium; additional contract reserves for mortality risk and unpaid claims  

Other:  

Variable annuity 
guaranteed minimum 
death benefits  (1)   
     
  Annuity 2000 mortality table with internal modifications  
     
  Interest rate assumptions range from 4.0% to 5.8%  
     
  Projected benefit ratio applied to cumulative assessments  

(1)     In
2006, the Company disposed of substantially all of its variable annuity business through reinsurance agreements with The Prudential
Insurance Company of America, a subsidiary of Prudential Financial, Inc. (collectively "Prudential").    

To
the extent that unrealized gains on fixed income securities would result in a premium deficiency had those gains actually been realized, a premium deficiency reserve is recorded for
certain immediate annuities with life contingencies. A liability of $771 million is included in the reserve for life-contingent contract benefits with respect to this deficiency as of
December 31, 2012. The offset to this liability is recorded as a reduction of the unrealized net capital gains included in accumulated other comprehensive income. The liability is zero as of
December 31, 2013.   

  158  

Table of Contents   

         As
of December 31, contractholder funds consist of the following:   

The
following table highlights the key contract provisions relating to contractholder funds:   

Product    
     
   Interest rate    
     
   Withdrawal/surrender charges    

Interest-sensitive life insurance  
     
  Interest rates credited range from 0% to 10.0% for equity-indexed life (whose returns are indexed to the S P 500) and 1.0% to 6.0% for all other products  
     
  Either a percentage of account balance or dollar amount grading off generally over 20 years  

Fixed annuities  
     
      Interest rates credited range from 0% to 9.8% for immediate annuities; (8.0)% to 13.5% for equity-indexed annuities (whose
returns are indexed to the S P 500); and 0.1% to 6.0% for all other products  
     
      Either a declining or a level percentage charge generally over ten years or less. Additionally, approximately 25.8% of fixed
annuities are subject to market value adjustment for discretionary withdrawals  

Funding agreements backing medium-term notes  
     
      Interest rates credited range from 1.8% to 5.4%  
     
      Not applicable  

Other investment contracts:  

Guaranteed minimum income, accumulation and withdrawal benefits on variable  (1)  and fixed annuities and secondary guarantees on
interest-sensitive life insurance and fixed annuities  
     
  Interest rates used in establishing reserves range from 1.7% to 10.3%  
     
  Withdrawal and surrender charges are based on the terms of the related interest-sensitive life insurance or fixed annuity contract  

(1)     In
2006, the Company disposed of substantially all of its variable annuity business through reinsurance agreements with Prudential.    

Contractholder
funds include funding agreements held by VIEs issuing medium-term notes. The VIEs are Allstate Life Funding, LLC, Allstate Financial Global Funding, LLC and
Allstate Life Global Funding, and their primary assets are funding agreements used exclusively to back medium-term note programs.   

  159  

Table of Contents   

         Contractholder
funds activity for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

The
Company offered various guarantees to variable annuity contractholders. Liabilities for variable contract guarantees related to death benefits are included in the reserve for
life-contingent contract benefits and the liabilities related to the income, withdrawal and accumulation benefits are included in contractholder funds. All liabilities for variable contract guarantees
are reported on a gross basis on the balance sheet with a corresponding reinsurance recoverable asset for those contracts subject to reinsurance. In 2006, the Company disposed of substantially all of
its variable annuity business through reinsurance agreements with Prudential.   

         Absent
any contract provision wherein the Company guarantees either a minimum return or account value upon death, a specified contract anniversary date, partial withdrawal or
annuitization, variable annuity and variable life insurance contractholders bear the investment risk that the separate accounts' funds may not meet their stated investment objectives. The account
balances of variable annuities contracts' separate accounts with guarantees included $5.20 billion and $5.23 billion of equity, fixed income and balanced mutual funds and
$748 million and $721 million of money market mutual funds as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

         The
table below presents information regarding the Company's variable annuity contracts with guarantees. The Company's variable annuity contracts may offer more than one type of
guarantee in each contract; therefore, the sum of amounts listed exceeds the total account balances of variable annuity contracts' separate accounts with guarantees.   

(1)     Defined
as the estimated current guaranteed minimum death benefit in excess of the current account balance as of the balance sheet date.      (2)     Defined
as the estimated present value of the guaranteed minimum annuity payments in excess of the current account balance.    

160  

Table of Contents   

(3)     Defined
as the estimated current guaranteed minimum withdrawal balance (initial deposit) in excess of the current account balance as of the
balance sheet date.       (4)     Defined
as the estimated present value of the guaranteed minimum accumulation balance in excess of the current account balance.    

The
liability for death and income benefit guarantees is equal to a benefit ratio multiplied by the cumulative contract charges earned, plus accrued interest less contract excess
guarantee benefit payments. The benefit ratio is calculated as the estimated present value of all expected contract excess guarantee benefits divided by the present value of all expected contract
charges. The establishment of reserves for these guarantees requires the projection of future fund values, mortality, persistency and customer benefit utilization rates. These assumptions are
periodically reviewed and updated. For guarantees related to death benefits, benefits represent the projected excess guaranteed minimum death benefit payments. For guarantees related to income
benefits, benefits represent the present value of the minimum guaranteed annuitization benefits in excess of the projected account balance at the time of annuitization.   

         Projected
benefits and contract charges used in determining the liability for certain guarantees are developed using models and stochastic scenarios that are also used in the development
of estimated expected gross profits. Underlying assumptions for the liability related to income benefits include assumed future annuitization elections based on factors such as the extent of benefit
to the potential annuitant, eligibility conditions and the annuitant's attained age. The liability for guarantees is re-evaluated periodically, and adjustments are made to the liability balance
through a charge or credit to life and annuity contract benefits.   

         Guarantees
related to the majority of withdrawal and accumulation benefits are considered to be derivative financial instruments; therefore, the liability for these benefits is
established based on its fair value.   

         The
following table summarizes the liabilities for guarantees:   

(1)     Included
in the total liability balance as of December 31, 2012 are reserves for variable annuity death benefits of
$112 million, variable annuity income benefits of $221 million, variable annuity accumulation benefits of $86 million, variable annuity withdrawal benefits of $39 million
and other guarantees of $215 million.       (2)     Included
in the total liability balance as of December 31, 2013 are reserves for variable annuity death benefits of $98 million,
variable annuity income benefits of $99 million, variable annuity accumulation benefits of $43 million, variable annuity withdrawal benefits of $13 million and other guarantees of
$302 million.       (3)     Included
in the total liability balance as of December 31, 2011 are reserves for variable annuity death benefits of
$116 million, variable annuity income benefits of $175 million, variable annuity accumulation benefits of $105 million, variable annuity withdrawal benefits of $57 million
and other guarantees of $191 million.    

161  

Table of Contents    

   11.   Reinsurance     

         The effects of reinsurance on property-liability insurance premiums written and earned and life and annuity premiums and contract charges for the years ended
December 31 are as follows:   

Property-Liability     

         The Company purchases reinsurance after evaluating the financial condition of the reinsurer, as well as the terms and price of
coverage. Developments in the insurance and reinsurance industries have fostered a movement to segregate asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines exposures into separate legal entities
with dedicated capital. Regulatory bodies in certain cases have supported these actions. The Company is unable to determine the impact, if any, that these developments will have on the collectability
of reinsurance recoverables in the future.   

    Property-Liability reinsurance recoverable     

         Total amounts recoverable from reinsurers as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 were $4.75 billion and $4.08 billion,
respectively, including $85 million and $69 million, respectively, related to
property-liability losses paid by the Company and billed to reinsurers, and $4.66 billion and $4.01 billion, respectively, estimated by the Company with respect to ceded unpaid losses
(including IBNR), which are not billable until the losses are paid.   

         With
the exception of the recoverable balances from the Michigan Catastrophic Claim Association ("MCCA"), Lloyd's of London and other industry pools and facilities, the largest
reinsurance recoverable balance the Company had outstanding was $85 million and $95 million from Westport Insurance Corporation (formerly Employers' Reinsurance Company) as of
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. No other amount due or estimated to be due from any single property-liability reinsurer was in excess of $34 million and $42 million as
of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

The
allowance for uncollectible reinsurance was $92 million and $87 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and is primarily related to the Company's
Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment.   

    Industry pools and facilities     

         Reinsurance recoverable on paid and unpaid claims including IBNR as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 includes $3.46 billion
and $2.59 billion, respectively, from the MCCA. The MCCA is a mandatory insurance coverage and reinsurance indemnification mechanism for personal injury protection losses that provides
indemnification for losses over a retention level that increases every other MCCA fiscal year. The retention level is $530 thousand per claim and $500 thousand per claim for the fiscal
years ending June 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The MCCA operates similar to a reinsurance program and is funded by participating companies through a per vehicle annual assessment. This
assessment is included in the premiums charged to the Company's customers and when collected, the Company remits the assessment to the MCCA. These assessments provide funds for the indemnification for
losses described above. The MCCA is required to assess an amount each year sufficient to cover lifetime claims of all persons catastrophically injured in that year, its operating expenses, and
adjustments for the amount for excesses or deficiencies in prior   

  162  

Table of Contents   

  assessments.
The MCCA prepares statutory-basis financial statements in conformity with accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the State of Michigan Department of Insurance and Financial
Services ("MI DOI"). The MI DOI has granted the MCCA a statutory permitted practice that expires in 2016 to discount its liabilities for loss and loss adjustment expense. As of June 30, 2013,
the date of its most recent annual financial report, the permitted practice reduced the MCCA's accumulated deficit by $51.48 billion to $1.87 billion.   

Allstate
sells and administers policies as a participant in the National Flood Insurance Program ("NFIP"). The amounts recoverable as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 were
$32 million and $428 million, respectively. Ceded premiums earned include $316 million, $311 million and $312 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Ceded
losses incurred include $289 million, $758 million and $196 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Under the arrangement, the Federal Government is obligated to pay all
covered claims.   

         Ceded
premiums earned under the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund ("FHCF") agreement were $16 million, $18 million and $27 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011,
respectively. There were no ceded losses incurred in 2013 or 2012. Ceded losses incurred were $8 million in 2011. The Company has access to reimbursement provided by the FHCF for 90% of
qualifying personal property losses that exceed its current retention of $72 million for the 2 largest hurricanes and $24 million for other hurricanes, up to a maximum total of
$198 million effective from June 1, 2013 to May 31, 2014. There were no amounts recoverable from the FHCF as of December 31, 2013 or 2012.   

    Catastrophe reinsurance     

         The Company has the following catastrophe reinsurance treaties in effect as of December 31,
2013:  

The Nationwide Per Occurrence Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement comprises five contracts, placed in six layers,
incepting as of June 1, 2011 and with one, two and three year terms. This agreement reinsures Allstate Protection personal lines auto and property business countrywide, in all states except
Florida and New Jersey, for excess catastrophe losses caused by multiple perils. The first four layers, which are 95% placed and subject to reinstatement, comprise three contracts and cover
$1.75 billion in per occurrence losses subject to a $500 million retention and after $250 million in losses "otherwise recoverable." Losses from multiple qualifying occurrences
can apply to this $250 million threshold which applies once to each contract year and only to the agreement's first layer. Coverage for the first $500 million of the $1 billion
limit of the fifth layer is 95% placed and comprises three contracts, one of which expires May 31, 2014 and two of which expire May 31, 2015. Coverage for the second $500 million
of the fifth layer is 63% placed and comprises two contracts expiring May 31, 2014 and May 31, 2015. The entire fifth layer is subject to reinstatement. The sixth layer provides
$500 million in per occurrence losses in excess of a $3.25 billion retention and is 38.04% placed. This layer comprises three contracts, two of which expire May 31, 2014 and one
of which expires May 31, 2015. The sixth layer is not subject to reinstatement.   
           The Top and Drop Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement comprises a three year term contract, incepting June 1,
2011, and provides $250 million of reinsurance limits which may be used for Coverage A, Coverage B, or a combination of both. Coverage A reinsures 6.33% of $500 million in limits excess
of a $3.25 billion retention. Coverage B provides 12.66% of $250 million in limits excess of a $750 million retention and after $500 million in losses "otherwise
recoverable" under the agreement. Losses from multiple qualifying occurrences can apply to this $500 million threshold.   
           The Property Claims Services ("PCS") Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement reinsures personal lines property and auto
excess catastrophe losses caused by hurricanes in 28 states and the District of Columbia, and earthquakes, including fires following earthquakes, in California, New York, and Washington. This
agreement comprises two contracts: a Class B Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance contract which provides $150 million in limits excess of a $2.75 billion retention, and a
Class A Excess Catastrophe contract which provides $200 million in limits excess of a $3.25 billion retention. The contracts' risk period is May 4, 2013 to May 3,
2017, with no reinstatement of limits. The placement of these contracts achieves, for the perils of hurricanes and earthquakes, including fires following earthquakes, a 94% placement of the
reinsurance limits of the fifth layer of the Nationwide Per Occurrence Excess Catastrophe agreement, and, in conjunction with the Top and Drop Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement, an 84.37%
placement of the sixth layer of the reinsurance limits of the Nationwide Per Occurrence Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement.    

Losses
recoverable under the Company's New Jersey, Kentucky and Pennsylvania reinsurance agreements, described below, are disregarded when determining coverage under the Nationwide Per
Occurrence Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement, the Top and Drop Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement, and the PCS Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement.   

  163  

Table of Contents   

The New Jersey Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement comprises three contracts. Two contracts that provide coverage for
Allstate Protection personal lines property excess catastrophe losses for multiple perils in New Jersey expire May 31, 2014 and May 31, 2015, and provide 32% of a $400 million
limit excess of a $134 million retention and 32% of a $400 million limit excess of a $154 million retention, respectively. One contract that reinsures personal lines property and
automobile excess catastrophe losses in New Jersey expires May 31, 2016 and provides 32% of a $400 million limit excess of a $150 million retention. Each contract contains one
reinstatement each year. The reinsurance premium and retention applicable to the agreement are subject to redetermination for exposure changes annually.    
           The Kentucky Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement provides coverage for Allstate Protection personal lines property
excess catastrophe losses in the state for earthquakes and fires following earthquakes effective June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2014. The agreement provides three limits of $25 million
excess of a $5 million retention subject to two limits being available in any one contract year and is 95% placed.   
           The Pennsylvania Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement provides coverage for Allstate Protection personal lines
property excess catastrophe losses in the state for multi-perils effective June 1, 2012 through May 31, 2015. The agreement provides three limits of $100 million excess of a
$100 million retention subject to two limits being available in any one contract year and is 95% placed.   
           Four separate contracts for Castle Key Insurance Company and its subsidiary ("Castle Key") provide coverage for personal
lines property excess catastrophe losses in Florida and coordinate coverage with Castle Key's participation in the FHCF, effective June 1, 2013 to May 31, 2014. All the contracts
comprising the Florida agreement including the contract that provides coverage through the FHCF, provides an estimated provisional limit of $535 million excess of a provisional retention of
$25 million.    

The
Company ceded premiums earned of $471 million, $531 million and $531 million under catastrophe reinsurance agreements in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

    Asbestos, environmental and other     

         Reinsurance recoverables include $191 million and $190 million from Lloyd's of London as of December 31, 2013 and
2012, respectively. Lloyd's of London, through the creation of Equitas Limited, implemented a restructuring plan in 1996 to solidify its capital base and to segregate claims for years prior to 1993.   

Allstate Financial     

         The Company's Allstate Financial segment reinsures certain of its risks to other insurers primarily under yearly renewable term,
coinsurance, modified coinsurance and coinsurance with funds withheld agreements. These agreements result in a passing of the agreed-upon percentage of risk to the reinsurer in exchange for negotiated
reinsurance premium payments. Modified coinsurance and coinsurance with funds withheld are similar to coinsurance, except that the cash and investments that support the liability for contract benefits
are not transferred to the assuming company and settlements are made on a net basis between the companies.   

For
certain term life insurance policies issued prior to October 2009, Allstate Financial ceded up to 90% of the mortality risk depending on the year of policy issuance under coinsurance
agreements to a pool of fourteen unaffiliated reinsurers. Effective October 2009, mortality risk on term business is ceded under yearly renewable term agreements under which Allstate Financial cedes
mortality in excess of its retention, which is consistent with how Allstate Financial   

  164  

Table of Contents   

  generally
reinsures its permanent life insurance business. The following table summarizes those retention limits by period of policy issuance.   

Period    
     
   Retention limits    

April 2011 through current  
     
  Single life: $5 million per life, $3 million age 70 and over, and $10 million for contracts that meet specific criteria 
Joint life: $8 million per life, and $10 million for contracts that meet specific criteria  

July 2007 through March 2011  
      
   $5 million per life, $3 million age 70 and over, and $10 million for contracts that meet specific criteria  

September 1998 through June 2007  
      
   $2 million per life, in 2006 the limit was increased to $5 million for instances when specific criteria were met  

August 1998 and prior  
      
   Up to $1 million per life  

In
addition, Allstate Financial has used reinsurance to effect the acquisition or disposition of certain blocks of business. Allstate Financial had reinsurance recoverables of
$1.51 billion and $1.69 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, due from Prudential related to the disposal of substantially all of its variable annuity business
that was effected through reinsurance agreements. In 2013, life and annuity premiums and contract charges of $120 million, contract benefits of $139 million, interest credited to
contractholder funds of $22 million, and operating costs and expenses of $23 million were ceded to Prudential. In 2012, life and annuity premiums and contract charges of
$128 million, contract benefits of $91 million, interest credited to contractholder funds of $23 million, and operating costs and expenses of $25 million were ceded to
Prudential. In 2011, life and annuity premiums and contract charges of $152 million, contract benefits of $121 million, interest credited to contractholder funds of $20 million,
and operating costs and expenses of $27 million were ceded to Prudential. In addition, as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 Allstate Financial had reinsurance recoverables of
$156 million and $160 million, respectively, due from subsidiaries of Citigroup (Triton Insurance and American Health and Life Insurance) and Scottish Re (U.S.) Inc. in connection
with the disposition of substantially all of the direct response distribution business in 2003.   

         As
of December 31, 2013, the gross life insurance in force was $542.48 billion of which $196.27 billion was ceded to the unaffiliated reinsurers.   

Allstate
Financial's reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid benefits as of December 31 are summarized in the following table.   

As
of December 31, 2013 and 2012, approximately 92% and 95%, respectively, of Allstate Financial's reinsurance recoverables are due from companies rated A- or better by S P.   

  165  

Table of Contents   

   12.  Deferred Policy Acquisition and Sales Inducement Costs     

         Deferred policy acquisition costs for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

DSI
activity for Allstate Financial, which primarily relates to fixed annuities and interest-sensitive life contracts, for the years ended December 31 was as follows:   

166  

Table of Contents   

   13.  Capital Structure     

    Debt     

         Total debt outstanding as of December 31 consisted of the following:   

(1)     Senior
Notes are subject to redemption at the Company's option in whole or in part at any time at the greater of either 100% of the principal
amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date or the discounted sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest and accrued and unpaid interest
to the redemption date.       (2)     The
Company classifies any borrowings which have a maturity of twelve months or less at inception as short-term debt.    

Debt
maturities for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 31, 2013 are as follows:   

On
January 10, 2013, the Company issued $500 million of 5.10% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Subordinated Debentures due 2053. The proceeds of this issuance were used for general
corporate purposes, including the repurchase of the Company's common stock through open market purchases and through an accelerated repurchase program.   

On
June 7, 2013, the Company issued $500 million of 3.15% Senior Notes due 2023 and $500 million of 4.50% Senior Notes due 2043. The proceeds of this issuance were
used to fund the repurchase of debt and for general corporate purposes.   

         On
June 20, 2013, the Company repurchased principal amounts of $1.83 billion of debt. The Company recognized a loss on extinguishment of $480 million, pre-tax,
representing the excess of the repurchase price over the principal repaid, the write-off of the unamortized debt issuance costs and other costs related to the repurchase transaction.   

  167  

Table of Contents   

         On
August 8, 2013, the Company issued $800 million of 5.75% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Subordinated Debentures due 2053. The proceeds of this issuance were used for the
repayment of certain commercial paper borrowings, to fund the repurchase of debt, for the repurchase of our common stock in open market purchases and for general corporate purposes.   

         During
third and fourth quarter 2013, the Company repurchased principal amounts of $73 million of debt. The Company recognized a loss on extinguishment of $11 million,
pre-tax, representing the excess of the repurchase price over the principal repaid and the write-off of the unamortized debt issuance costs.   

         The
Subordinated Debentures may be redeemed (i) in whole at any time or in part from time to time on or after January 15, 2023 for the 5.10% Subordinated Debentures and
August 15, 2023 for the 5.75% Subordinated Debentures at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of redemption; provided that if the Subordinated
Debentures are not redeemed in whole, at least $25 million aggregate principal amount must remain outstanding, or (ii) in whole, but not in part, prior to January 15, 2023 for the
5.10% Subordinated Debentures and August 15, 2023 for the 5.75% Subordinated Debentures, within 90 days after the occurrence of certain tax and rating agency events, at their principal
amount or, if greater, a make-whole redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of redemption. The 5.75% Subordinated Debentures have this make-whole redemption
price provision only when a reduction of equity credit assigned by a rating agency has occurred.   

         Interest
on the 5.10% Subordinated Debentures is payable quarterly at the stated fixed annual rate to January 14, 2023, or any earlier redemption date, and then at an annual rate
equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 3.165%. Interest on the 5.75% Subordinated Debentures is payable semi-annually at the stated fixed annual rate to August 14, 2023, or any earlier redemption
date, and then quarterly at an annual rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.938%. The Company may elect to defer payment of interest on the Subordinated Debentures for one or more consecutive
interest periods that do not exceed five years. During a deferral period, interest will continue to accrue on the Subordinated Debentures at the then-applicable rate and deferred interest will
compound on each interest payment date. If all deferred interest on the Subordinated Debentures is paid, the Company can again defer interest payments.   

         The
Company has outstanding $500 million of Series A 6.50% and $252 million of Series B 6.125% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures (together
the "Debentures"). The scheduled maturity dates for the Debentures are May 15, 2057 and May 15, 2037 for Series A and Series B, respectively, with a final maturity date of
May 15, 2067. The Debentures may be redeemed (i) in whole or in part, at any time on or after May 15, 2037 or May 15, 2017 for Series A and Series B,
respectively, at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or in part, prior to May 15, 2037 and
May 15, 2017 for Series A and Series B, respectively, at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption or, if greater, a make-whole price.   

         Interest
on the Debentures is payable semi-annually at the stated fixed annual rate to May 15, 2037 and May 15, 2017 for Series A and Series B, respectively,
and then payable quarterly at an annual rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.12% and 1.935% for Series A and Series B, respectively. The Company may elect at one or more times
to defer payment of interest on the Debentures for one or more consecutive interest periods that do not exceed 10 years. Interest compounds during such deferral periods at the rate in effect
for each period. The interest deferral feature obligates the Company in certain circumstances to issue common stock or certain other types of securities if it cannot otherwise raise sufficient funds
to make the required interest payments. The Company has reserved 75 million shares of its authorized and unissued common stock to satisfy this obligation.   

         The
terms of the Company's outstanding subordinated debentures prohibit the Company from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on common or preferred stock or redeeming,
purchasing, acquiring, or making liquidation payments on common stock or preferred stock if the Company has elected to defer interest payments on the subordinated debentures, subject to certain
limited exceptions.   

         In
connection with the issuance of the Debentures, the Company entered into replacement capital covenants ("RCCs"). These covenants were not intended for the benefit of the holders of
the Debentures and could not be enforced by them. Rather, they were for the benefit of holders of one or more other designated series of the Company's indebtedness ("covered debt"), initially the
6.90% Senior Debentures due 2038. At the time of the issuance of the Subordinated Debentures, the Company terminated the existing RCCs and entered into new RCCs designating the 6.75% Senior Debentures
due 2018 as the covered debt. Pursuant to the new RCCs, the Company has agreed that it will not repay, redeem, or purchase the Debentures on or before May 15, 2067 and May 15, 2047 for
Series A and Series B, respectively, (or such earlier date on which the new RCCs terminate by their terms) unless, subject to certain limitations, the Company has received net cash
proceeds in specified amounts from the sale of common stock or certain   

  168  

Table of Contents   

  other
qualifying securities. The promises and covenants contained in the new RCC will not apply if (i) S P upgrades the Company's issuer credit rating to A or above, (ii) the Company
redeems the Debentures due to a tax event, (iii) after notice of redemption has been given by the Company and a market disruption event occurs preventing the Company from raising proceeds in
accordance with the new RCCs, or (iv) if the Company repurchases or redeems up to 10% of the outstanding principal of the Debentures in any one-year period, provided that no more than 25% will
be so repurchased, redeemed or purchased in any ten-year period.   

         The
new RCCs terminate in 2067 and 2047 for Series A and Series B, respectively. The new RCCs will terminate prior to their scheduled termination date if (i) the
applicable series of Debentures is no longer outstanding and the Company has fulfilled its obligations under the new RCCs or they are no longer applicable, (ii) the holders of a majority of the
then-outstanding principal amount of the then-effective series of covered debt consent to agree to the termination of the new RCCs, (iii) the Company does not have any series of outstanding
debt that is eligible to be treated as covered debt under the new RCCs, (iv) the applicable series of Debentures is accelerated as a result of an event of default, (v) certain rating
agency or change in control events occur, (vi) S P, or any successor thereto, no longer assigns a solicited rating on senior debt issued or guaranteed by the Company, or (vii) the
termination of the new RCCs would have no effect on the equity credit provided by S P with respect to the Debentures. An event of default, as defined by the supplemental indenture, includes default in
the payment of interest or principal and bankruptcy proceedings.   

         The
Company is the primary beneficiary of a consolidated VIE used to acquire up to 19 automotive collision repair stores ("synthetic lease"). In 2011, the Company renewed the synthetic
lease for a three-year term at a floating rate due 2014. The Company's Consolidated Statements of Financial Position include $29 million and $30 million of
property and equipment, net and $44 million and $44 million of long-term debt as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

         To
manage short-term liquidity, the Company maintains a commercial paper program and a credit facility as a potential source of funds. These include a $1.00 billion unsecured
revolving credit facility and a commercial paper program with a borrowing limit of $1.00 billion. The Company has the option to extend the expiration of its initial five year term by one year
at the first and second anniversary of the facility, upon approval of existing or replacement lenders. In April 2013, the Company utilized the option on the first anniversary of the facility and
extended the facility by one year making its current expiration April 2018. This facility contains an increase provision that would allow up to an additional $500 million of borrowing. This
facility has a financial covenant requiring the Company not to exceed a 37.5% debt to capitalization ratio as defined in the agreement. Although the right to borrow under the facility is not subject
to a minimum rating requirement, the costs of maintaining the facility and borrowing under it are based on the ratings of the Company's senior unsecured, unguaranteed long-term debt. The total amount
outstanding at any point in time under the combination of the commercial paper program and the credit facility cannot exceed the amount that can be borrowed under the credit facility. No amounts were
outstanding under the credit facility as of December 31, 2013 or 2012. The Company had no commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2013 or 2012.   

The
Company paid $361 million, $366 million and $363 million of interest on debt in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

         During
2012, the Company filed a universal shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") that expires in 2015. The registration statement covers an
unspecified amount of securities and can be used to issue debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units and securities of
trust subsidiaries.   

    Common stock     

         The Company had 900 million shares of issued common stock of which 449 million shares were outstanding and
451 million shares were held in treasury as of December 31, 2013. In 2013, the Company reacquired 38 million shares at an average cost of $49.29 and reissued 8 million
shares under equity incentive plans.   

    Preferred stock     

         On June 12, 2013, the Company issued 11,500 shares of 5.625% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, with a
$1.00 par value per share and a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, for gross proceeds of $287.5 million. The proceeds of this issuance were used to fund the repurchase of debt and for
general corporate purposes.   

         On
September 30, 2013, the Company issued 15,400 shares of 6.75% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, with a $1.00 par value per share and a liquidation
preference of $25,000 per share, for gross proceeds of $385 million. The proceeds of this issuance were used for general corporate purposes, including to prefund the repayment of debt maturing
in 2014.   

  169  

Table of Contents   

         In
December 2013, the Company issued 5,400 shares of 6.625% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series D, with a $1.00 par value per share and a liquidation preference of
$25,000 per share, for gross proceeds of $135 million. The proceeds of this issuance were used for general corporate purposes.   

         The
preferred stock ranks senior to the Company's common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and liquidation rights. The Company will pay dividends on the preferred stock on a
noncumulative basis only when, as and if declared by the Company's board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) and to the extent that the Company has legally available funds to
pay dividends. If dividends are declared on the preferred stock, they will be payable quarterly in arrears at an annual fixed rate. Dividends on the preferred stock are not cumulative. Accordingly, in
the event dividends are not declared on the preferred stock for payment on any dividend payment date, then those dividends will cease to be payable. If the Company has not declared a dividend before
the dividend payment date for any dividend period, the Company has no obligation to pay dividends for that dividend period, whether or not dividends are declared for any future dividend period. No
dividends may be paid or declared on the Company's common stock and no shares of the Company's common stock may be repurchased unless the full dividends for the latest completed dividend period on the
preferred stock have been declared and paid or provided for.   

         The
Company is prohibited from declaring or paying dividends on preferred stock in excess of the amount of net proceeds from an issuance of common stock taking place within
90 days before a dividend declaration date if, on that dividend declaration date, either: (1) the risk-based capital ratios of largest U.S. property-casualty insurance subsidiaries that
collectively account for 80% or more of the net written premiums of U.S. property-casualty insurance business on a weighted average basis were less than 175% of their company action level risk-based
capital as of the end of the most recent year; or (2) consolidated net income for the four-quarter period ending on the preliminary quarter end test date (the quarter that is two quarters prior
to the most recently completed quarter) is zero or negative and consolidated shareholders' equity (excluding accumulated other comprehensive income, and subject to certain other adjustments relating
to changes in U.S. GAAP) as of each of the preliminary quarter test date and the most recently completed quarter has declined by 20% or more from its level as measured at the end of the
benchmark quarter (the date that is ten quarters prior to the most recently completed quarter). If the Company fails to satisfy either of these tests on any dividend declaration date, the restrictions
on dividends will continue until the Company is able again to satisfy the test on a dividend declaration date. In addition, in the case of a restriction arising under (2) above, the
restrictions on dividends will continue until consolidated shareholders' equity (excluding accumulated other comprehensive income, and subject to certain other adjustments relating to changes in
U.S. GAAP) has increased, or has declined by less than 20%, in either case as compared to its level at the end of the benchmark quarter for each dividend payment date as to which dividend
restrictions were imposed.   

         The
preferred stock does not have voting rights except with respect to certain changes in the terms of the preferred stock, in the case of certain dividend nonpayments, certain other
fundamental corporate events, mergers or consolidations and as otherwise provided by law. If and when dividends have not been declared and paid in full for at least six quarterly dividend periods or
their equivalent (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number
of directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two. The holders of the preferred stock, together with the holders of all other affected classes and series of voting parity
stock, voting as a single class, will be entitled to elect the two additional members of the board of directors of the Company, subject to certain conditions. The board of directors shall at no time
have more than two preferred stock directors.   

         The
preferred stock is perpetual and has no maturity date. The preferred stock is redeemable at the Company's option in whole or in part, on or after June 15, 2018 for
Series A, October 15, 2018 for Series C and April 15, 2019 for Series D, at a redemption price of $25,000 per share of preferred stock, plus declared and unpaid
dividends. Prior to June 15, 2018 for Series A, October 15, 2018 for Series C and April 15, 2019 for Series D, the preferred stock is redeemable at the
Company's option, in whole but not in part, within 90 days of the occurrence of certain rating agency events at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share or, if greater, a make-whole
redemption price, plus declared and unpaid dividends.   

   14.  Company Restructuring     

         The Company undertakes various programs to reduce expenses. These programs generally involve a reduction in staffing levels, and in certain cases, office
closures. Restructuring and related charges include employee termination and relocation benefits, and post-exit rent expenses in connection with these programs, and non-cash charges resulting from
pension benefit payments made to agents in connection with the 1999 reorganization of Allstate's multiple agency programs to a single exclusive agency program. The expenses related to these activities
are included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as restructuring and related charges, and totaled $70 million, $34 million and $44 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011,
respectively. Restructuring and related charges in 2013 primarily related to the technology organization, which is changing its organizational structure by leveraging centralization, global sourcing
and automation to meet contemporary business needs; the closure of a contact center; exiting the annuity business; and claim office consolidation.   

  170  

Table of Contents    

         The following table presents changes in the restructuring liability in 2013.   

The
payments applied against the liability for employee costs primarily reflect severance costs, and the payments for exit costs generally consist of post-exit rent expenses and contract
termination penalties. As of December 31, 2013, the cumulative amount incurred to date for active programs totaled $115 million for employee costs and $54 million for exit costs.   

   15.  Commitments, Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities     

    Leases     

         The Company leases certain office facilities and computer equipment. Total rent expense for all leases was $192 million,
$243 million and $256 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

Minimum
rental commitments under noncancelable capital and operating leases with an initial or remaining term of more than one year as of December 31, 2013 are as follows:   

Shared markets and state facility assessments     

         The Company is required to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations in various
states that provide insurance coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are unable to purchase such coverage from private insurers. Underwriting results related to these arrangements, which
tend to be adverse, have been immaterial to the Company's results of operations. Because of the Company's participation, it may be exposed to losses that surpass the capitalization of these facilities
and/or assessments from these facilities.   

    Florida Citizens     

         Castle Key is subject to assessments from Citizens Property Insurance Corporation in the state of Florida ("FL Citizens"), which
was initially created by the state of Florida to provide insurance to property owners unable to obtain coverage in the private insurance market. FL Citizens, at the discretion and direction of its
Board of Governors ("FL Citizens Board"), can levy a regular assessment on assessable insurers and assessable insureds for a deficit in any calendar year up to a maximum of the greater of: 2%
of the projected deficit or 2% of the aggregate statewide direct written premium for the prior calendar year. The base of assessable insurers includes all property and casualty premiums in the state,
except workers' compensation, medical malpractice, accident and health insurance and policies written under the NFIP. An insurer may recoup a regular assessment through a surcharge to policyholders.
In order to recoup this assessment, an insurer must file for a policy surcharge with the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation ("FL OIR") at least fifteen days prior to imposing the surcharge
on policies. If a deficit remains after the regular assessment, FL Citizens can also levy emergency assessments in the current and subsequent years. Companies are   

  171  

Table of Contents   

  required
to collect the emergency assessments directly from residential property policyholders and remit to FL Citizens as collected.   

    Louisiana Citizens     

         The Company is also subject to assessments from Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation ("LA Citizens"). LA Citizens
can levy a regular assessment on participating companies for a deficit in any calendar year up to a maximum of the greater of 10% of the calendar year deficit or 10% of Louisiana direct property
premiums industry-wide for the prior calendar year.   

    Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund     

         Castle Key participates in the mandatory coverage provided by the FHCF and therefore has access to reimbursements on certain qualifying
Florida hurricane losses from the FHCF (see Note 11), has exposure to assessments and pays annual premiums to the FHCF for this reimbursement protection. The FHCF has the authority to issue
bonds to pay its obligations to insurers participating in the mandatory coverage in excess of its capital balances. Payment of these bonds is funded by emergency assessments on all property and
casualty premiums in the state, except workers' compensation, medical malpractice, accident and health insurance and policies written under the NFIP. The FHCF emergency assessments are limited to 6%
of premiums per year beginning the first year in which reimbursements require bonding, and up to a total of 10% of premiums per year for assessments in the second and subsequent years, if required to
fund additional bonding. The FHCF issued $625 million in bonds in 2008, and the FL OIR ordered an emergency assessment of 1% of premiums collected for all policies renewed after
January 1, 2007. The FHCF issued $676 million in bonds in 2010 and the FL OIR ordered an emergency assessment of 1.3% of premiums collected for all policies written or renewed after
January 1, 2011. The FHCF issued $2 billion in pre-event bonds in 2013 to build their capacity to reimburse member companies' claims. The FHCF plans to fund these pre-event bonds through
current FHCF cash flows. In the event the FL OIR were to issue an order for emergency assessments related to these pre-event bonds, companies would collect the assessments from policyholders and remit
them to the FHCF as collected.   

         Facilities
such as FL Citizens, LA Citizens and the FHCF are generally designed so that the ultimate cost is borne by policyholders; however, the exposure to assessments from these
facilities and the availability of recoupments or premium rate increases may not offset each other in the Company's financial statements. Moreover, even if they do offset each other, they may not
offset each other in financial statements for the same fiscal period due to the ultimate timing of the assessments and recoupments or premium rate increases, as well as the possibility of policies not
being renewed in subsequent years.   

    California Earthquake Authority     

         Exposure to certain potential losses from earthquakes in California is limited by the Company's participation in the California
Earthquake Authority ("CEA"), which provides insurance for California earthquake losses. The CEA is a privately-financed, publicly-managed state agency created to provide insurance coverage for
earthquake damage. Insurers selling homeowners insurance in California are required to offer earthquake insurance to their customers either through their company or by participation in the CEA. The
Company's homeowners policies continue to include coverages for losses caused by explosions, theft, glass breakage and fires following an earthquake, which are not underwritten by the CEA.   

         As
of September 30, 2013, the CEA's capital balance was approximately $4.43 billion. Should losses arising from an earthquake cause a deficit in the CEA, additional funding
would be obtained from the proceeds of revenue bonds the CEA may issue, an existing $3.12 billion reinsurance layer, and finally, if needed, assessments on participating insurance companies.
Participating insurers are required to pay an assessment, currently estimated not to exceed $1.66 billion, if the capital of the CEA falls below $350 million. Participating insurers are
required to pay a second additional assessment, currently estimated not to exceed $385 million, if aggregate CEA earthquake losses exceed $9.90 billion and the capital of the CEA falls
below $350 million. Within the limits previously described, the assessment could be intended to restore the CEA's capital to a level of $350 million. There is no provision that allows
insurers to recover assessments through a premium surcharge or other mechanism. The CEA's projected aggregate claim paying capacity is $9.90 billion as of September 30, 2013 and if an
event were to result in claims greater than its capacity, affected policyholders would be paid a prorated portion of their covered losses.   

         All
future assessments on participating CEA insurers are based on their CEA insurance market share as of December 31 of the preceding year. As of December 31, 2012, the
Company's share of the CEA was 14.8%. The Company does not expect its CEA market share to materially change. At this level, the Company's maximum possible CEA assessment would be $303 million
during 2014. Accordingly, assessments from the CEA for a particular quarter or   

  172  

Table of Contents   

  annual
period may be material to the results of operations and cash flows, but not the financial position of the Company. Management believes the Company's exposure to earthquake losses in California
has been significantly reduced as a result of its participation in the CEA.   

    Texas Windstorm Insurance Association     

         The Company participates as a member of the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association ("TWIA") which provides wind and hail coverage to
coastal risks unable to procure coverage in the voluntary market. Wind and hail coverage is written on a TWIA-issued policy. Under current law, as amended in 2009, to the extent losses exceed premiums
and reinsurance, TWIA follows a funding structure first utilizing funds set aside from periods (including prior years) in which premiums exceeded losses. Once those funds and available reinsurance are
utilized, TWIA will issue up to $1 billion of securities, 30% of which will be repaid by participating insurers assessments and 70% of which will be repaid by surcharges on coastal property
policies. After those funds are depleted, TWIA can issue $500 million of securities which will be repaid by participating insurer assessments. Participating companies' maximum assessment is
capped at $800 million annually. The Company's current participation ratio is approximately 13% based upon its proportion of the premiums written. The TWIA board has not indicated the
likelihood of any possible future assessments to insurers at this time. However, assessments from TWIA for a particular quarter or annual period may be material to the results of operations and cash
flows, but not the financial position of the Company.   

    New Jersey Unsatisfied Claim and Judgment Fund     

         The New Jersey Unsatisfied Claim and Judgment Fund ("NJUCJF") provides compensation to qualified claimants for bodily injury or death
caused by private passenger automobiles operated by uninsured or "hit and run" drivers. The fund also provides reimbursement to insurers for the medical benefits portion of personal injury protection
coverage paid in excess of $75,000 with no limits for policies issued or renewed prior to January 1, 1991 and in excess of $75,000 and capped at $250,000 for policies issued or renewed from
January 1, 1991 to December 31, 2004. NJUCJF expenses are assessed on companies writing motor vehicle liability insurance in New Jersey annually based on their private passenger and
commercial automobile written premiums. The NJUCJF was merged into the New Jersey Property Liability Guaranty Association who collects the assessments. Assessments to the Company totaled
$9 million in 2013.   

    North Carolina Reinsurance Facility     

         The North Carolina Reinsurance Facility ("NCRF") provides automobile liability insurance to drivers that insurers are not otherwise
willing to insure. All insurers licensed to write and engaged in writing automobile insurance in North Carolina are members of the NCRF. Premium, losses and expenses ceded to the NCRF are shared by
the member companies in proportion to their respective North Carolina automobile liability writings. Member companies are assessed based on their participation ratios when necessary to offset NCRF
operating losses. As of December 31, 2013, the NCRF reported a surplus of $53 million in members' equity to cover future losses.   

North Carolina Joint Underwriters Association     

         The North Carolina Joint Underwriters Association ("NCJUA") was created to provide property insurance to those unable to buy coverage
in the standard insurance market. All licensed property insurers in the state assume plan results based on a market share participation ratio. Assessments are made when plan deficits occur. As of
December 31, 2013, the Company has a $2 million receivable from the NCJUA reflecting a plan surplus from all open years.   

    North Carolina Insurance Underwriting Association     

         The North Carolina Insurance Underwriting Association ("NCIUA") provides windstorm and hail coverage as well as homeowners policies for
properties located in the state's beach and coastal areas. All licensed residential and commercial property insurers in the state participate based on a market share participation ratio which varies
by coverage. Insurers are assessed for plan deficits. The plan currently has a surplus. Legislation in 2009 capped insurers' assessments for losses incurred in any year at $1 billion.
Subsequent
to an industry assessment of $1 billion, if the plan continues to require funding, it may authorize insurers to assess a 10% surcharge on each property insurance policy statewide to be remitted
to the plan.   

    Guaranty funds     

         Under state insurance guaranty fund laws, insurers doing business in a state can be assessed, up to prescribed limits, for certain
obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Amounts assessed to each company are typically related to its proportion of business written in each state. The Company's
policy is to accrue assessments when the entity for which the insolvency relates has met its state of domicile's statutory definition of insolvency, the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable and
the related premium upon which the assessment is based   

  173  

Table of Contents   

  is
written. In most states, the definition is met with a declaration of financial insolvency by a court of competent jurisdiction. In certain states there must also be a final order of liquidation. As
of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the liability balance included in other liabilities and accrued expenses was $36 million and $49 million, respectively. The related premium tax
offsets included in other assets were $31 million and $32 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

    PMI runoff support agreement     

         The Company has certain limited rights and obligations under a capital support agreement ("Runoff Support Agreement") with PMI Mortgage
Insurance Company ("PMI"), the primary operating subsidiary of PMI Group, related to the Company's disposition of PMI in prior years. Under the Runoff Support Agreement, the Company would be required
to pay claims on PMI policies written prior to October 28, 1994 if PMI fails certain financial covenants and fails to pay such claims. The agreement only covers these policies and not any
policies issued on or after that date. In the event any amounts are so paid, the Company would receive a commensurate amount of preferred stock or subordinated debt of PMI Group or PMI. The Runoff
Support Agreement also restricts PMI's ability to write new business and pay dividends under certain circumstances. On October 20, 2011, the Director of the Arizona Department of Insurance took
control of the PMI insurance companies; effective October 24, 2011, the Director instituted a partial claim payment plan: claim payments will be made at 50%, with the remaining amount deferred
as a policyholder claim. The effect of these developments to the Company is uncertain. The Company has not received any notices or requests for payments under this agreement. Management does not
believe these developments will have a material effect on results of operations, cash flows or financial position of the Company.   

    Guarantees     

         The Company provides residual value guarantees on Company leased automobiles. If all outstanding leases were terminated effective
December 31, 2013, the Company's maximum obligation pursuant to these guarantees, assuming the automobiles have no residual value, would be $40 million as of December 31, 2013.
The remaining term of each residual value guarantee is equal to the term of the underlying lease that ranges from less than one year to three years. Historically, the Company has not made any material
payments pursuant to these guarantees.   

         The
Company owns certain fixed income securities that obligate the Company to exchange credit risk or to forfeit principal due, depending on the nature or occurrence of specified credit
events for the reference entities. In the event all such specified credit events were to occur, the Company's maximum amount at risk on these fixed income securities, as measured by the amount of the
aggregate initial investment, was $5 million as of December 31, 2013. The obligations associated with these fixed income securities expire at various dates on or before March 11,
2018.   

         Related
to the disposal through reinsurance of substantially all of Allstate Financial's variable annuity business to Prudential in 2006, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries,
ALIC and ALNY, have agreed to indemnify Prudential for certain pre-closing contingent liabilities (including extra-contractual liabilities of ALIC and ALNY and liabilities specifically excluded from
the transaction) that ALIC and ALNY have agreed to retain. In addition, the Company, ALIC and ALNY will each indemnify Prudential for certain post-closing liabilities that may arise from the acts of
ALIC, ALNY and their agents, including in connection with ALIC's and ALNY's provision of transition services. The reinsurance agreements contain no limitations or indemnifications with regard to
insurance risk transfer, and transferred all of the future risks and responsibilities for performance on the underlying variable annuity contracts to Prudential, including those related to benefit
guarantees. Management does not believe this agreement will have a material effect on results of operations, cash flows or financial position of the Company.   

         In
the normal course of business, the Company provides standard indemnifications to contractual counterparties in connection with numerous transactions, including acquisitions and
divestitures. The types of indemnifications typically provided include indemnifications for breaches of representations and warranties, taxes and certain other liabilities, such as third party
lawsuits. The indemnification clauses are often standard contractual terms and are entered into in the normal course of business based on an assessment that the risk of loss would be remote. The terms
of the indemnifications vary in duration and nature. In many cases, the maximum obligation is not explicitly stated and the contingencies triggering the obligation to indemnify have not occurred and
are not expected to occur. Consequently, the maximum amount of the obligation under such indemnifications is not determinable. Historically, the Company has not made any material payments pursuant to
these obligations.   

         The
aggregate liability balance related to all guarantees was not material as of December 31, 2013.   

  174  

Table of Contents   

    Regulation and Compliance     

         The Company is subject to changing social, economic and regulatory conditions. From time to time, regulatory authorities or legislative
bodies seek to influence and restrict premium rates, require premium refunds to policyholders, require reinstatement of terminated policies, restrict the ability of insurers to cancel or non-renew
policies, require insurers to continue to write new policies or limit their ability to write new policies, limit insurers' ability to change coverage terms or to impose underwriting standards, impose
additional regulations regarding agent and broker compensation, regulate the nature of and amount of investments, and otherwise expand overall regulation of insurance products and the insurance
industry. The Company has established procedures and policies to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations, to foster prudent business operations, and to support financial reporting. The Company
routinely reviews its practices to validate compliance with laws and regulations and with internal procedures and policies. As a result of these reviews, from time to time the Company may decide to
modify some of its procedures and policies. Such modifications, and the reviews that led to them, may be accompanied by payments being made and costs being incurred. The ultimate changes and eventual
effects of these actions on the Company's business, if any, are uncertain.   

    Legal and regulatory proceedings and inquiries     

         The Company and certain subsidiaries are involved in a number of lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and other legal proceedings arising
out of various aspects of its business.   

     Background      

         These matters raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to many uncertainties and complexities,
including the underlying facts of each matter; novel legal issues; variations between jurisdictions in which matters are being litigated, heard, or investigated; differences in applicable laws and
judicial interpretations; the length of time before many of these matters might be resolved by settlement, through litigation, or otherwise; the fact that some of the lawsuits are putative class
actions in which a class has not been certified and in which the purported class may not be clearly defined; the fact that some of the lawsuits involve multi-state class actions in which the
applicable law(s) for the claims at issue is in dispute and therefore unclear; and the current challenging legal environment faced by large corporations and insurance companies.   

         The
outcome of these matters may be affected by decisions, verdicts, and settlements, and the timing of such decisions, verdicts, and settlements, in other individual and class action
lawsuits that involve the Company, other insurers, or other entities and by other legal, governmental, and regulatory actions that involve the Company, other insurers, or other entities. The outcome
may also be affected by future state or federal legislation, the timing or substance of which cannot be predicted.   

         In
the lawsuits, plaintiffs seek a variety of remedies which may include equitable relief in the form of injunctive and other remedies and monetary relief in the form of contractual and
extra-contractual damages. In some cases, the monetary damages sought may include punitive or treble damages. Often specific information about the relief sought, such as the amount of damages, is not
available because plaintiffs have not requested specific relief in their pleadings. When specific monetary demands are made, they are often set just below a state court jurisdictional limit in order
to seek the maximum amount available in state court, regardless of the specifics of the case, while still avoiding the risk of removal to federal court. In Allstate's experience, monetary demands in
pleadings bear little relation to the ultimate loss, if any, to the Company.   

         In
connection with regulatory examinations and proceedings, government authorities may seek various forms of relief, including penalties, restitution, and changes in business practices.
The Company may not be advised of the nature and extent of relief sought until the final stages of the examination or proceeding.   

Accrual and disclosure policy      

         The Company reviews its lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and other legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follows appropriate
accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions. The Company establishes accruals for such matters at management's best estimate when the Company assesses that it is probable that a
loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company does not establish accruals for such matters when the Company does not believe both that it is probable that
a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company's assessment of whether a loss is reasonably possible or probable is based on its assessment of the
ultimate outcome of the matter following all appeals. The Company does not include potential recoveries in its estimates of reasonably possible or probable losses. Legal fees are expensed as incurred.   

  175  

Table of Contents   

         The
Company continues to monitor its lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and other legal proceedings for further developments that would make the loss contingency both probable and
estimable, and accordingly accruable, or that could affect the amount of accruals that have been previously established. There may continue to be exposure to loss in excess of any amount accrued.
Disclosure of the nature and amount of an accrual is made when there have been sufficient legal and factual developments such that the Company's ability to resolve the matter would not be impaired by
the disclosure of the amount of accrual.   

         When
the Company assesses it is reasonably possible or probable that a loss has been incurred, it discloses the matter. When it is possible to estimate the reasonably possible loss or
range of loss above the amount accrued, if any, for the matters disclosed, that estimate is aggregated and disclosed. Disclosure is not required when an estimate of the reasonably possible loss or
range of loss cannot be made.   

         For
certain of the matters described below in the "Claims related proceedings" and "Other proceedings" subsections, the Company is able to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range
of loss above the amount
accrued, if any. In determining whether it is possible to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss, the Company reviews and evaluates the disclosed matters, in conjunction with counsel,
in light of potentially relevant factual and legal developments.   

         These
developments may include information learned through the discovery process, rulings on dispositive motions, settlement discussions, information obtained from other sources,
experience from managing these and other matters, and other rulings by courts, arbitrators or others. When the Company possesses sufficient appropriate information to develop an estimate of the
reasonably possible loss or range of loss above the amount accrued, if any, that estimate is aggregated and disclosed below. There may be other disclosed matters for which a loss is probable or
reasonably possible but such an estimate is not possible. Disclosure of the estimate of the reasonably possible loss or range of loss above the amount accrued, if any, for any individual matter would
only be considered when there have been sufficient legal and factual developments such that the Company's ability to resolve the matter would not be impaired by the disclosure of the individual
estimate.   

         As
of December 31, 2013, the Company estimates that the aggregate range of reasonably possible loss in excess of the amount accrued, if any, for the disclosed matters where such
an estimate is possible is zero to $810 million, pre-tax. This disclosure is not an indication of expected loss, if any. Under accounting guidance, an event is "reasonably possible" if "the
chance of the future event or events occurring is more than remote but less than likely" and an event is "remote" if "the chance of the future event or events occurring is slight." This estimate is
based upon currently available information and is subject to significant judgment and a variety of assumptions, and known and unknown uncertainties. The matters underlying the estimate will change
from time to time, and actual results may vary significantly from the current estimate. The estimate does not include matters or losses for which an estimate is not possible. Therefore, this estimate
represents an estimate of possible loss only for certain matters meeting these criteria. It does not represent the Company's maximum possible loss exposure. Information is provided below regarding the
nature of all of the disclosed matters and, where specified, the amount, if any, of plaintiff claims associated with these loss contingencies.   

         Due
to the complexity and scope of the matters disclosed in the "Claims related proceedings" and "Other proceedings" subsections below and the many uncertainties that exist, the ultimate
outcome of these matters cannot be predicted. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters, the ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts currently accrued, if any, and
may be material to the Company's operating results or cash flows for a particular quarterly or annual period. However, based on information currently known to it, management believes that the ultimate
outcome of all matters described below, as they are resolved over time, is not likely to have a material effect on the financial position of the Company.   

     Claims related proceedings      

         Allstate is vigorously defending a class action lawsuit in Montana state court challenging aspects of its claim handling practices in
Montana. The plaintiff alleges that the Company adjusts claims made by individuals who do not have attorneys in a manner that unfairly resulted in lower payments compared to claimants who were
represented by attorneys. In January 2012, the court certified a class of Montana claimants who were not represented by attorneys with respect to the resolution of auto accident claims. The court
certified the class to cover an indefinite period that commences in the mid-1990's. The certified claims include claims for declaratory judgment, injunctive relief and punitive damages in an
unspecified amount. Injunctive relief may include a claim process by which unrepresented claimants could request that their claims be readjusted. No compensatory damages are sought on behalf of the
class. The Company appealed the order certifying the class. In August 2013, the Montana Supreme Court affirmed in part, and reversed in part, the lower court's order granting plaintiff's motion for
class certification and remanded the case for trial.   

  176  

Table of Contents   

  The
Company petitioned for rehearing of the Montana Supreme Court's decision, which the Court denied. On January 30, 2014, the Company timely filed a petition for a writ of certiorari with the
U.S. Supreme Court seeking review of the Montana Supreme Court's decision. To date no discovery has occurred related to the potential value of the class members' claims. The Company has asserted
various defenses with respect to the plaintiff's claims, which have not been finally resolved. In the Company's judgment a loss is not probable.   

     Other proceedings      

         The Company is defending certain matters relating to the Company's agency program reorganization announced in 1999. Although these
cases have been pending for many years, they currently are in the early stages of litigation because of appellate court proceedings and threshold procedural issues.   

These matters include a lawsuit filed in 2001 by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ("EEOC") alleging
retaliation under federal civil rights laws ("EEOC I") and a class action filed in 2001 by former employee agents alleging retaliation and age discrimination under the Age Discrimination in Employment
Act ("ADEA"), breach of contract and ERISA violations ("Romero I"). In 2004, in the consolidated EEOC I and Romero I litigation, the trial court issued a memorandum and order that, among other things,
certified classes of agents, including a mandatory class of agents who had signed a release, for purposes of effecting the court's declaratory judgment that the release was voidable at the option of
the release signer. The court also ordered that an agent who voided the release must return to Allstate "any and all benefits received by the [agent] in exchange for signing
the release." The court also stated that, "on the undisputed facts of record, there is no basis for claims of age discrimination." The EEOC and plaintiffs asked the court to clarify and/or reconsider
its memorandum and order and in January 2007, the judge denied their request. In June 2007, the court reversed its prior ruling that the release was voidable and granted the Company's motions for
summary judgment, ruling that the asserted claims were barred by the release signed by most plaintiffs. Plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit ("Third
Circuit"). In July 2009, the Third Circuit vacated the trial court's entry of summary judgment in the Company's favor and remanded the cases to the trial court for additional discovery, including
additional discovery related to the validity of the release and waiver. In its opinion, the Third Circuit held that if the release and waiver is held to be valid, then all of the claims in Romero I
and EEOC I are barred. Thus, if the waiver and release is upheld, then only the claims in Romero I asserted by the small group of employee agents who did not sign the release and waiver would remain
for adjudication. In January 2010, following the remand, the cases were assigned to a new judge for further proceedings in the trial court. Plaintiffs filed their Second Amended Complaint on
July 28, 2010. Plaintiffs seek broad but unspecified "make whole relief," including back pay, compensatory and punitive damages, liquidated damages, lost investment capital, attorneys' fees and
costs, and equitable relief, including reinstatement to employee agent status with all attendant benefits for up to approximately 6,500 former employee agents. Despite the length of time that these
matters have been pending, to date only limited discovery has occurred related to the damages claimed by individual plaintiffs, and no damages discovery has occurred related to the claims of the
putative class. Nor have plaintiffs provided any calculations of the putative class's alleged back pay or the alleged liquidated, compensatory or punitive damages, instead asserting that such
calculations will be provided at a later stage during expert discovery. Damage claims are subject to reduction by amounts and benefits received by plaintiffs and putative class members subsequent to
their employment termination. Little to no discovery has occurred with respect to amounts earned or received by plaintiffs and putative class members in mitigation of their alleged losses. Alleged
damage amounts and lost benefits of the approximately 6,500 putative class members also are subject to individual variation and determination dependent upon retirement dates, participation in employee
benefit programs, and years of service. Discovery limited to the validity of the waiver and release is closed. The parties filed cross motions for summary judgment with respect to the validity of the
waiver and release on April 8, 2013, and are awaiting the Court's determination. At present, no class is certified.   
           A putative nationwide class action has also been filed by former employee agents alleging various violations of ERISA,
including a worker classification issue ("Romero II"). These plaintiffs are challenging certain amendments to the Agents Pension Plan and are seeking to have exclusive agent independent contractors
treated as employees for benefit purposes. Romero II was dismissed with prejudice by the trial court, was the subject of further proceedings on appeal, and was reversed and remanded to the trial court
in 2005. In June 2007, the court granted the Company's motion to dismiss the case. Plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal with the Third Circuit. In July 2009, the Third Circuit vacated the district
court's dismissal of the case and remanded the case to the trial court for additional discovery, and directed that the case be reassigned to another trial court judge. In its opinion, the Third
Circuit held that if the release and waiver is held to be valid, then one of plaintiffs'    
 
  177  

Table of Contents   

three
claims asserted in Romero II is barred. The Third Circuit directed the district court to consider on remand whether the other two claims asserted in Romero II are barred by the release and
waiver. In January 2010, following the remand, the case was assigned to a new judge (the same judge for the Romero I and EEOC I cases) for further proceedings in the trial court. On April 23,
2010, plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint. Plaintiffs seek broad but unspecified "make whole" or other equitable relief, including losses of income and benefits as a result of their
decision to retire from the Company between November 1, 1999 and December 31, 2000. They also seek repeal of the challenged amendments to the Agents Pension Plan with all attendant
benefits revised and recalculated for thousands of former employee agents, and attorney's fees and costs. Despite the length of time that this matter has been pending, to date only limited discovery
has occurred related to the damages claimed by individual plaintiffs, and no damages discovery has occurred related to the claims of the putative class. Nor have plaintiffs provided any calculations
of the putative class's alleged losses, instead asserting that such calculations will be provided at a later stage during expert discovery. Damage claims are subject to reduction by amounts and
benefits received by plaintiffs and putative class members subsequent to their employment termination. Little to no discovery has occurred with respect to amounts earned or received by plaintiffs and
putative class members in mitigation of their alleged losses. Alleged damage amounts and lost benefits of the putative class members also are subject to individual variation and determination
dependent upon retirement dates, participation in employee benefit programs, and years of service. As in Romero I and EEOC I, discovery limited to issues relating to the validity of the waiver and
release is closed. The parties filed cross motions for summary judgment with respect to the validity of the waiver and release on April 8, 2013, and are awaiting the Court's determination. At
present, class certification has not been decided.   

In
these agency program reorganization matters, the threshold issue of the validity and scope of the waiver and release is yet to be decided and, if decided in favor of the Company,
would preclude any damages being awarded in Romero I and EEOC I and may also preclude damages from being awarded in Romero II. In the Company's judgment a loss is not probable. Allstate has been
vigorously defending these lawsuits and other matters related to its agency program reorganization.   

Asbestos and environmental     

         Allstate's reserves for asbestos claims were $1.02 billion and $1.03 billion, net of reinsurance recoverables of
$478 million and $496 million, as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Reserves for environmental claims were $208 million and $193 million, net of
reinsurance recoverables of $60 million and $48 million, as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Approximately 55% and 58% of the total net asbestos and environmental
reserves as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, were for incurred but not reported estimated losses.   

         Management
believes its net loss reserves for asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines exposures are appropriately established based on available facts, technology, laws and
regulations. However, establishing net loss reserves for asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims is subject to uncertainties that are much greater than those presented by other
types of claims. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded amounts, which are based on management's best estimate. Among the complications are lack of
historical data, long reporting delays, uncertainty as to the number and identity of insureds with potential exposure and unresolved legal issues regarding policy coverage; unresolved legal issues
regarding the determination, availability and timing of exhaustion of policy limits; plaintiffs' evolving and expanding theories of liability; availability and collectability of recoveries from
reinsurance; retrospectively determined premiums and other contractual agreements; estimates of the extent and timing of any contractual liability; the impact of bankruptcy protection sought by
various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants; and other uncertainties. There are also complex legal issues concerning the interpretation of various insurance policy provisions and whether
those losses are covered, or were ever intended to be covered, and could be recoverable through retrospectively determined premium, reinsurance or other contractual agreements. Courts have reached
different and sometimes inconsistent conclusions as to when losses are deemed to have occurred and which policies provide coverage; what types of losses are covered; whether there is an insurer
obligation to defend; how policy limits are determined; how policy exclusions and conditions are applied and interpreted; and whether clean-up costs represent insured property damage. Management
believes these issues are not likely to be resolved in the near future, and the ultimate costs may vary materially from the amounts currently recorded resulting in material changes in loss reserves.
In addition, while the Company believes that improved actuarial techniques and databases have assisted in its ability to estimate asbestos, environmental, and other discontinued lines net loss
reserves, these refinements may subsequently prove to be inadequate indicators of the extent of probable losses. Due to the uncertainties and factors described above, management believes it is not
practicable to develop a meaningful range for any such additional net loss reserves that may be required.   

  178  

Table of Contents   

   16.  Income Taxes     

         The Company and its domestic subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return. Tax liabilities and benefits realized by the consolidated group
are allocated as generated by the respective entities.   

         The
Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") is currently examining the Company's 2011 and 2012 federal income tax returns. The IRS has completed its examination of the Company's 2009 and 2010
federal income tax returns and issued a Revenue Agent's Report on April 15, 2013. The Company protested certain of the adjustments contained in the report and the case was forwarded to Appeals
on June 13, 2013. The IRS has also completed its examinations of the Company's federal income tax returns for the years 2005-2008 and a final settlement for those years has been approved by the
Joint Committee on Taxation. The Company's tax years prior to 2005 have been examined by the IRS and the statute of limitations has expired on those years. Any adjustments that may result from IRS
examinations of tax returns are not expected to have a material effect on the results of operations, cash flows or financial position of the Company.   

The
reconciliation of the change in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

($ in millions)    
     
   2013    
     
   2012    
     
   2011    

Balance   beginning of year  
     
  $  
  25  
     
  $  
  25  
     
  $  
  25  

Increase for tax positions taken in a prior year  

1  

Decrease for tax positions taken in a prior year  

Increase for tax positions taken in the current year  

Decrease for tax positions taken in the current year  

(Decrease) increase for settlements  

(26  
  )  

Reductions due to lapse of statute of limitations  

Balance   end of year  
     
  $  

$  
  25  
     
  $  
  25  

The
Company believes it is reasonably possible that the liability balance will not significantly increase within the next twelve months. Because of the impact of deferred tax accounting,
recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits is not expected to impact the Company's effective tax rate.   

         The
Company recognizes interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. The Company did not record interest income or expense relating to unrecognized tax
benefits in income tax expense in 2013, 2012 or 2011. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, there was no interest accrued with respect to unrecognized tax benefits. No amounts have been accrued for
penalties.   

  179  

Table of Contents   

         The
components of the deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of December 31 are as follows:   

Although
realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized based on the Company's assessment that the deductions
ultimately recognized for tax purposes will be fully utilized.   

         As
of December 31, 2013, the Company has net operating loss carryforwards of $110 million which will expire at the end of 2014 through 2029.   

         The
components of income tax expense for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

The
Company paid income taxes of $500 million, $280 million and $32 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Company had current income tax payable of
$203 million as of December 31, 2013 and current income tax receivable of $157 million as of December 31, 2012.   

A
reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the effective income tax rate on income from operations for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

180  

Table of Contents   

   17.  Statutory Financial Information and Dividend Limitations     

Allstate's domestic property-liability and life insurance subsidiaries prepare their statutory-basis financial statements in conformity with accounting practices
prescribed or permitted by the insurance department of the applicable state of domicile. Prescribed statutory accounting practices include a variety of publications of the NAIC, as well as state laws,
regulations and general administrative rules. Permitted statutory accounting practices encompass all accounting practices not so prescribed.   

         All
states require domiciled insurance companies to prepare statutory-basis financial statements in conformity with the NAIC Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual, subject to any
deviations prescribed or permitted by the applicable insurance commissioner and/or director. Statutory accounting practices differ from GAAP primarily since they require charging policy acquisition
and certain sales inducement costs to expense as incurred, establishing life insurance reserves based on different actuarial assumptions, and valuing certain investments and establishing deferred
taxes on a different basis.   

Statutory
net income and capital and surplus of Allstate's domestic insurance subsidiaries, determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by
insurance regulatory authorities are as follows:   

(1)     The
Property-Liability statutory capital and surplus balances exclude wholly-owned subsidiaries included in the Allstate Financial segment.    

Dividend Limitations     

         There are no regulatory restrictions that limit the payment of dividends by the Corporation, except those generally applicable to
corporations incorporated in Delaware. Dividends are payable only out of certain components of shareholders' equity as permitted by Delaware law. However, the ability of the Corporation to pay
dividends is dependent on business conditions, income, cash requirements of the Company, receipt of dividends from AIC and other relevant factors.   

         The
payment of shareholder dividends by AIC without the prior approval of the Illinois Department of Insurance ("IL DOI") is limited to formula amounts based on net income and
capital and surplus, determined in conformity with statutory accounting practices, as well as the timing and amount of dividends paid in the preceding twelve months. AIC paid dividends of
$1.95 billion in 2013. The maximum amount of dividends AIC will be able to pay without prior IL DOI approval at a given point in time during 2014 is $2.47 billion, less dividends paid
during the preceding twelve months measured at that point in time. The payment of a dividend in excess of this amount requires 30 days advance written notice to the IL DOI. The dividend is
deemed approved, unless the IL DOI disapproves it within the 30 days notice period. Additionally, any dividend must be paid out of unassigned surplus
excluding unrealized appreciation from investments, which for AIC totaled $11.99 billion as of December 31, 2013, and cannot result in capital and surplus being less than the minimum
amount required by law.   

         Under
state insurance laws, insurance companies are required to maintain paid up capital of not less than the minimum capital requirement applicable to the types of insurance they are
authorized to write. Insurance companies are also subject to risk-based capital ("RBC") requirements adopted by state insurance regulators. A company's "authorized control level RBC" is calculated
using various factors applied to certain financial balances and activity. Companies that do not maintain statutory capital and surplus at a level in excess of the company action level RBC, which is
two times authorized control level RBC, are required to take specified actions. Company action level RBC is significantly in excess of the minimum capital requirements. Total statutory capital and
surplus and authorized control level RBC of AIC were $17.81 billion and $2.69 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2013. Substantially all of the Corporation's insurance subsidiaries are
subsidiaries of and/or reinsure all of their business to AIC, including ALIC. The subsidiaries are included as a component of AIC's total statutory capital and surplus.   

         The
amount of restricted net assets, as represented by the Corporation's investment in its insurance subsidiaries, was $25 billion as of December 31, 2013.   

Intercompany transactions     

         Notification and approval of intercompany lending activities is also required by the IL DOI for transactions that exceed a level that
is based on a formula using statutory admitted assets and statutory surplus.   

  181  

Table of Contents    

   18.  Benefit Plans     

    Pension and other postretirement plans     

         Defined benefit pension plans cover most full-time employees, certain part-time employees and employee-agents. Benefits under the
pension plans are based upon the employee's length of service, eligible annual compensation and, prior to January 1, 2014, either a cash balance or final average pay formula. A cash balance
formula applies to all eligible employees hired after August 1, 2002. Eligible employees hired before August 1, 2002 chose between the cash balance formula and the final average pay
formula. In July
2013, the Company amended its primary plans effective January 1, 2014 to introduce a new cash balance formula to replace the previous formulas (including the final average pay formula and the
previous cash balance formula) under which eligible employees accrue benefits.   

         The
Company also provides certain health care subsidies for eligible employees hired before January 1, 2003 when they retire and their eligible dependents and certain life
insurance benefits for eligible employees hired before January 1, 2003 when they retire ("postretirement benefits"). Qualified employees may become eligible for these health care subsidies if
they retire in accordance with the terms of the applicable plans and are continuously insured under the Company's group plans or other approved plans in accordance with the plan's participation
requirements. The Company shares the cost of retiree medical benefits with non Medicare-eligible retirees based on years of service, with the Company's share being subject to a 5% limit on annual
medical cost inflation after retirement. For Medicare-eligible retirees, the Company provides a fixed Company contribution based on years of service and other factors, which is not subject to
adjustments for inflation. In July 2013, the Company amended the plan to eliminate the life insurance benefits effective January 1, 2014 for current eligible employees and effective
January 1, 2016 for eligible retirees who retired after 1989.   

         The
Company has reserved the right to modify or terminate its benefit plans at any time and for any reason.   

    Obligations and funded status     

         The Company calculates benefit obligations based upon generally accepted actuarial methodologies using the projected benefit obligation
("PBO") for pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation ("APBO") for other postretirement plans. The determination of pension costs and other postretirement obligations are
determined using a December 31 measurement date. The benefit obligations represent the actuarial present value of all benefits attributed to employee service rendered as of the measurement
date. The PBO is measured using the pension benefit formulas and assumptions as to future compensation levels. A plan's funded status is calculated as the difference between the benefit obligation and
the fair value of plan assets. The Company's funding policy for the pension plans is to make annual contributions at a level that is in accordance with regulations under the Internal Revenue Code
("IRC") and generally accepted actuarial principles. The Company's postretirement benefit plans are not funded.   

The
components of the plans' funded status that are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31 are as follows:   

The
$1.10 billion decrease in the pension net actuarial loss during 2013 is primarily related to an increase in the discount rate and the change in the plan formula relating to
the pension plan amendments. The majority of the $1.79 billion net actuarial pension benefit losses not yet recognized in 2013 reflects decreases in the discount rate and   

  182  

Table of Contents   

  the
effect of unfavorable equity market conditions on the value of the pension plan assets in prior years. The $479 million increase in the pension prior service credit during 2013 resulted
from the pension plan amendments to the benefit formula. The $121 million increase in the OPEB net actuarial gain during 2013 primarily reflects the modified life insurance benefit due to the
plan amendment and an increase in the discount rate for the medical plan.   

The
change in 2013 in items not yet recognized as a component of net periodic cost, which is recorded in unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost, is shown in the table
below.   

The
net actuarial loss (gain) is recognized as a component of net periodic cost amortized over the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits.
Estimates of the net actuarial loss (gain) and prior service credit expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost during 2014 are shown in the table below.   

($ in millions) 

Pension 
benefits    
     
   Postretirement 
benefits    

Net actuarial loss (gain)  
     
  $  
  115  
     
  $  
  (22  
  )  

Prior service credit  

(58  
  )  
     
  (23  
  )  

The
accumulated benefit obligation ("ABO") for all defined benefit pension plans was $5.23 billion and $6.09 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
The ABO is the actuarial present value of all benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula to employee service rendered at the measurement date. However, it differs from the PBO due to the
exclusion of an assumption as to future compensation levels.   

         The
PBO, ABO and fair value of plan assets for the Company's pension plans with an ABO in excess of plan assets were $146 million, $145 million and zero, respectively, as
of December 31, 2013 and $6.35 billion, $5.75 billion and $5.02 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2012. Included in the accrued benefit cost of the pension
benefits are certain unfunded non-qualified plans with accrued benefit costs of $146 million and $146 million for 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

  183  

Table of Contents   

         The
changes in benefit obligations for all plans for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)     Benefits
paid include lump sum distributions, a portion of which may trigger settlement accounting treatment.    

Components of net periodic cost     

         The components of net periodic cost for all plans for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

Assumptions     

         Weighted average assumptions used to determine net pension cost and net postretirement benefit cost for the years ended
December 31 are:   

Weighted
average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations as of December 31 are listed in the following table.   

The
weighted average health care cost trend rate used in measuring the accumulated postretirement benefit cost is 7.00% for 2014, gradually declining to 4.5% in 2024 and remaining at
that level thereafter.   

         Assumed
health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the postretirement health care plans. A one percentage-point increase in assumed health care
cost trend rates would increase the total of   

  184  

Table of Contents   

  the
service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost of other postretirement benefits and the APBO by $2 million and $21 million, respectively. A one percentage-point
decrease in assumed health care cost trend rates would decrease the total of the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost of other postretirement benefits and the APBO by
$2 million and $19 million, respectively.   

    Pension plan assets     

The change in pension plan assets for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

In
general, the Company's pension plan assets are managed in accordance with investment policies approved by pension investment committees. The purpose of the policies is to ensure the
plans' long-term ability to meet benefit obligations by prudently investing plan assets and Company contributions, while taking into consideration regulatory and legal requirements and current market
conditions. The investment policies are reviewed periodically and specify target plan asset allocation by asset category. In addition, the policies specify various asset allocation and other risk
limits. The target asset allocation takes the plans' funding status into consideration, among other factors, including anticipated demographic changes or liquidity requirements that may affect the
funding status such as the potential impact of lump sum settlements as well as existing or expected market conditions. In general, the allocation has a lower overall investment risk when a plan is in
a stronger funded status position since there is less economic incentive to take risk to increase the expected returns on the plan assets. The pension plans' asset exposure within each asset category
is tracked against widely accepted established benchmarks for each asset class with limits on variation from the benchmark established in the investment policy. Pension plan assets are regularly
monitored for compliance with these limits and other risk limits specified in the investment policies.   

The
pension plans' weighted average target asset allocation and the actual percentage of plan assets, by asset category as of December 31, 2013 are as follows:   

(1)     Securities
lending collateral reinvestment is excluded from target and actual percentage of plan assets.    

The
target asset allocation for an asset category may be achieved either through direct investment holdings, through replication using derivative instruments (e.g., futures or
swaps) or net of hedges using derivative instruments to reduce exposure to an asset category. The notional amount of derivatives used for replication net of the notional amount of hedges is limited to
105% or 115% of total plan assets depending on the plan. Market performance of the different asset categories may, from time to time, cause deviation from the target asset allocation. The asset
allocation mix is reviewed on a periodic basis and rebalanced to bring the allocation within the target ranges.   

Outside
the target asset allocation, the pension plans participate in a securities lending program to enhance returns. As of December 31, 2013, U.S. government fixed income
securities and U.S. equity securities are lent out and cash collateral is invested 7% in fixed income securities and 93% in short-term investments.   

  185  

Table of Contents   

         The
following table presents the fair values of pension plan assets as of December 31, 2013.   

(1)     Real
estate funds held by the pension plans are primarily invested in U.S. commercial real estate.       (2)     Private
equity funds held by the pension plans are primarily comprised of North American buyout funds.       (3)     Hedge
funds held by the pension plans primarily comprise fund of funds investments in diversified pools of capital across funds with
underlying strategies such as convertible arbitrage, equity market neutral, fixed income arbitrage, global macro, commodity trading advisors, long short equity, short biased equity, and event driven.      (4)
     The
securities lending obligation represents the plan's obligation to return securities lending collateral received under a securities lending
program. The terms of the program allow both the plan and the counterparty the right and ability to redeem/return the securities loaned on short notice. Due to its relatively short-term nature, the
outstanding balance of the obligation approximates fair value.       (5)     Other
net plan assets represent interest and dividends receivable and net receivables related to settlements of investment transactions, such
as purchases and sales.    

186  

Table of Contents   

         The
following table presents the fair values of pension plan assets as of December 31, 2012.   

The
fair values of pension plan assets are estimated using the same methodologies and inputs as those used to determine the fair values for the respective asset category of the Company.
These methodologies and inputs are disclosed in Note 7.   

         The
following table presents the rollforward of Level 3 plan assets for the year ended December 31, 2013.   

187  

Table of Contents   

         The
following table presents the rollforward of Level 3 plan assets for the year ended December 31, 2012.   

The
following table presents the rollforward of Level 3 plan assets for the year ended December 31, 2011.   

The
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected on plan assets. The Company's assumption for the expected long-term rate of return on
plan assets is reviewed annually giving consideration to appropriate financial data including, but not limited to, the plan asset allocation, forward-looking expected returns for the period over which
benefits will be paid, historical returns on plan assets and other relevant market data. Given the long-term forward looking nature of this assumption, the actual returns in any one year do not
immediately result in a change. In giving consideration to the targeted plan asset allocation, the Company evaluated returns using the same sources it has used historically which include: historical
average asset class returns from an independent nationally recognized vendor of this type of data blended together using the asset allocation policy weights for the Company's pension plans; asset
class return forecasts from a large global independent asset management firm that specializes in providing multi-asset class investment fund products which were blended together using the asset
allocation policy weights; and expected portfolio returns from a proprietary simulation methodology of a widely recognized external investment consulting firm that performs asset allocation and
actuarial services for corporate pension plan sponsors. This same methodology has been applied on a consistent basis each year. All of these were consistent with the Company's weighted average
long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption of 7.75% used for 2013 and 7.36% that will be used for 2014. The decrease in the weighted average long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption
for 2014 is primarily due to a decrease in the assumption for the pension plan covering employee-agents that comprises 14% of total plan assets. The decrease for this plan related to a decrease in the
investment allocation to equities and increase in the allocation to fixed income securities. The long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption for the primary employee plan comprising 79% of
total plan assets remained unchanged. As of the 2013 measurement date, the arithmetic average of the annual actual return on plan assets for the most recent 10 and 5 years was 8.0% and 11.3%,
respectively.   

  188  

Table of Contents   

         Pension
plan assets did not include any of the Company's common stock as of December 31, 2013 or 2012.   

    Cash flows     

         There was no required cash contribution necessary to satisfy the minimum funding requirement under the IRC for the tax qualified
pension plans as of December 31, 2013. The Company currently plans to contribute $38 million to its pension plans in 2014.   

         The
Company contributed $39 million and $39 million to the postretirement benefit plans in 2013 and 2012, respectively. Contributions by participants were
$18 million and $20 million in 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

    Estimated future benefit payments     

Estimated future benefit payments expected to be paid in the next 10 years, based on the assumptions used to measure the
Company's benefit obligation as of December 31, 2013, are presented in the table below.   

Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan     

         Employees of the Company, with the exception of those employed by the Company's international, Sterling Collision Centers ("Sterling"),
Esurance and Answer Financial subsidiaries, are eligible to become members of the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan ("Allstate Plan"). The Company's contributions are based on the Company's matching
obligation and certain performance measures. The Company is responsible for funding its anticipated contribution to the Allstate Plan, and may, at the discretion of management, use the ESOP to
pre-fund certain portions. In connection with the Allstate Plan, the Company has a note from the ESOP with a principal balance of $21 million as of December 31, 2013. The ESOP note has a
fixed interest rate of 7.9% and matures in 2019. The Company records dividends on the ESOP shares in retained income and all the shares held by the ESOP are included in basic and diluted weighted
average common shares outstanding.   

         The
Company's contribution to the Allstate Plan was $54 million, $52 million and $48 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. These amounts were reduced by the
ESOP benefit computed for the years ended December 31 as follows:   

The
Company made $2 million in contributions to the ESOP in 2013. The Company made no contributions to the ESOP in 2012 and 2011. As of December 31, 2013, total committed
to be released, allocated and unallocated ESOP shares were 0.8 million, 34 million and 4 million, respectively.   

Allstate's
Canadian, Sterling, Esurance and Answer Financial subsidiaries sponsor defined contribution plans for their eligible employees. Expense for these plans was $11 million,
$7 million and $7 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

  189  

Table of Contents   

19.  Equity Incentive Plans     

         The Company currently has equity incentive plans under which the Company grants nonqualified stock options, restricted stock units and performance stock awards to
certain employees and directors of the Company. The total compensation expense related to equity awards was $93 million, $86 million and $64 million and the total income tax
benefits were $32 million, $30 million and $21 million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Total cash received from the exercise of options was $212 million,
$99 million and $19 million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Total tax benefit realized on options exercised and stock unrestricted was $65 million, $28 million and
$10 million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

         The
Company records compensation expense related to awards under these plans over the shorter of the period in which the requisite service is rendered or retirement eligibility is
attained. Compensation expense for performance share awards is based on the probable number of awards expected to vest using the performance level most likely to be achieved at the end of the
performance period. As of December 31, 2013, total unrecognized compensation cost related to all nonvested awards was $88 million, of which $35 million related to nonqualified
stock options which are expected to be recognized over the weighted average vesting period of 2.17 years, $40 million related to restricted stock units which are expected to be
recognized over the weighted average vesting period of 2.22 years and $13 million related to performance stock awards which are expected to be recognized over the weighted average
vesting period of 1.59 years.   

         Options
are granted to employees with exercise prices equal to the closing share price of the Company's common stock on the applicable grant date. Options granted to employees generally
vest 50% on the second anniversary of the grant date and 25% on each of the third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date. Options granted prior to 2010 vest ratably over a four year period.
Options may be exercised once vested and will expire ten years after the date of grant. Upon normal retirement, which is defined as either age 60 with five years of service or age 55
with ten years of service, all options granted more than 12 months before retirement, and a pro-rata portion of options granted within 12 months of retirement, continue to vest as
scheduled. When the options become vested, they may be exercised on or before the earlier of the option expiration date or the fifth anniversary of the employee's retirement. If termination of
employment is a result of death or disability, then all options vest immediately and may be exercised on or before the earlier of the option expiration date or the second anniversary of the date of
termination of employment. Vested options may be exercised within three months and unvested options are forfeited following any other type of termination of employment except termination after a
change in control.   

         Restricted
stock units generally vest and unrestrict 50% on the second anniversary of the grant date and 25% on each of the third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date, except for
directors whose awards vest immediately and unrestrict after leaving the board. Restricted stock units granted to employees prior to 2010 vest and unrestrict in full on the fourth anniversary of the
grant date. Upon normal retirement, all restricted stock units granted more than 12 months before retirement, and a pro-rata portion of restricted stock units granted within 12 months of
retirement, continue to unrestrict as provided for in the original grant. Upon termination of employment as a result of death or disability, all restricted stock units vest. Unvested restricted stock
units are forfeited following any other type of termination of employment except termination after a change in control.   

         Performance
stock awards vest and are converted into shares of stock on the third anniversary of the grant date. Upon normal retirement occurring 12 months or more from the grant
date, the number of performance stock awards earned based on the attainment of performance goals for each of the performance periods continue to vest as scheduled. Upon normal retirement occurring
within 12 months of the grant date, a pro-rata portion of the performance stock awards earned based on the attainment of the performance goals for each of the performance periods continue to
vest as scheduled. Upon termination of employment as a result of death or disability, the number of performance stock awards that have been earned based on attainment of the performance goals for
completed performance periods plus the target number of performance stock awards granted for any incomplete performance periods vest immediately. Unvested performance stock awards are forfeited
following any other type of termination of employment except termination after a change in control.   

         A
total of 97.6 million shares of common stock were authorized to be used for awards under the plans, subject to adjustment in accordance with the plans' terms. As of
December 31, 2013, 33.5 million shares were reserved and remained available for future issuance under these plans. The Company uses its treasury shares for these issuances.   

         The
fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial lattice model. The Company uses historical data to estimate option exercise and employee
termination within the valuation model. In addition, separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. The expected term of
options granted is derived from the output of the binominal lattice model and   

  190  

Table of Contents   

  represents
the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The expected volatility of the price of the underlying shares is implied based on traded options and historical
volatility of the Company's common stock. The expected dividends were based on the current dividend yield of the Company's stock as of the date of the grant. The risk-free rate for periods within the
contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The assumptions used are shown in the following table.   

A
summary of option activity for the year ended December 31, 2013 is shown in the following table.   

The
weighted average grant date fair value of options granted was $11.99, $8.69 and $9.49 during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The intrinsic value, which is the difference between
the fair value and the exercise price, of options exercised was $92 million, $52 million and $15 million during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

The
changes in restricted stock units are shown in the following table for the year ended December 31, 2013.   

The
fair value of restricted stock units is based on the market value of the Company's stock as of the date of the grant. The market value in part reflects the payment of future
dividends expected. The weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock units granted was $45.78, $31.89 and $31.38 during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The total fair value of
restricted stock units vested was $104 million, $30 million and $13 million during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

  191  

Table of Contents   

The
changes in performance stock awards are shown in the following table for the year ended December 31, 2013.   

The
fair value of performance stock awards is based on the market value of the Company's stock as of the date of the grant. The market value in part reflects the payment of future
dividends expected. The weighted average grant date fair value of performance stock awards granted was $45.61 and $31.41 during 2013 and 2012, respectively. None of the performance stock awards vested
during 2013 or 2012.   

         The
tax benefit realized in 2013, 2012 and 2011 related to tax deductions from stock option exercises and included in shareholders' equity was $12 million, $8 million and
$3 million, respectively. The tax benefit (expense) realized in 2013, 2012 and 2011 related to all stock-based compensation and recorded directly to shareholders' equity was $30 million,
$6 million and $(0.4) million, respectively.   

   20. Reporting Segments     

         Allstate management is organized around products and services, and this structure is considered in the identification of its four reportable segments. These
segments and their respective operations are as follows:   

            Allstate Protection    principally sells private passenger auto and homeowners insurance in the United States and Canada. Revenues from
external customers generated outside the United States were $1.06 billion, $992 million and $892 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Company evaluates the results of
this segment based upon underwriting results.   

            Discontinued Lines and Coverages    consists of business no longer written by Allstate, including results from asbestos, environmental and
other discontinued lines claims, and certain commercial and other businesses in run-off. This segment also includes the historical results of the commercial and reinsurance businesses sold in 1996.
The Company evaluates the results of this segment based upon underwriting results.   

            Allstate Financial    sells life insurance and voluntary accident and health insurance products. The principal products are
interest-sensitive, traditional and variable life insurance; and voluntary accident and health insurance. Effective January 1, 2014, the Company no longer offers fixed annuities such as
deferred and immediate annuities. Allstate Financial had no revenues from external customers generated outside the United States in 2013, 2012 or 2011. The Company evaluates the results of this
segment based upon operating income.   

            Corporate and Other    comprises holding company activities and certain non-insurance operations.   

         Allstate
Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages comprise Property-Liability. The Company does not allocate Property-Liability investment income, realized capital gains and
losses, or assets to the Allstate Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments. Management reviews assets at the Property-Liability, Allstate Financial, and Corporate and Other levels for
decision-making purposes.   

The
accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in Note 2. The effects of certain inter-segment transactions are excluded from segment
performance evaluation and therefore are eliminated in the segment results.   

    Measuring segment profit or loss     

         The measure of segment profit or loss used by Allstate's management in evaluating performance is underwriting income for the Allstate
Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments and operating income for the Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other segments. A reconciliation of these measures to net income is provided
below.   

            Underwriting income    is calculated as premiums earned, less claims and claims expenses ("losses"), amortization of DAC, operating costs and
expenses, and restructuring and related charges as determined using GAAP.   

  192  

Table of Contents    

            Operating income    is net income excluding:  

realized capital gains and losses, after-tax, except for periodic settlements and accruals on non-hedge derivative
instruments, which are reported with realized capital gains and losses but included in operating income,   
           valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged, after-tax,    
           amortization of DAC and DSI, to the extent they resulted from the recognition of certain realized capital gains and losses
or valuation changes on embedded derivatives that are not hedged, after-tax,   
           business combination expenses and the amortization of purchased intangible assets, after-tax,    
           gain (loss) on disposition of operations, after-tax, and   
           adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the charge or
gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar charge or gain within the prior two years.    
  193  

Table of Contents   

         Summarized
revenue data for each of the Company's reportable segments for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)     For
presentation in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, service fees of the Corporate and Other segment are reclassified to operating
costs and expenses.    

194  

Table of Contents   

Summarized
financial performance data for each of the Company's reportable segments for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)     For
presentation in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, service fees of the Corporate and Other segment are reclassified to operating
costs and expenses.    

195  

Table of Contents   

Additional
significant financial performance data for each of the Company's reportable segments for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

Interest
expense is primarily incurred in the Corporate and Other segment. Capital expenditures for long-lived assets are generally made in the Property-Liability segment. A portion of
these long-lived assets are used by entities included in the Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other segments and, accordingly, are charged expenses in proportion to their use.   

Summarized
data for total assets and investments for each of the Company's reportable segments as of December 31 are as follows:   

The
balances above reflect the elimination of related party investments between segments.   

  196  

Table of Contents   

21.  Other Comprehensive Income     

         The components of other comprehensive (loss) income on a pre   -   tax and after-tax basis for the years ended
December 31 are as follows:   

22.  Quarterly Results (unaudited)     

197  

Table of Contents    

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
The Allstate Corporation 
Northbrook, Illinois 60062   

  We
have audited the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Financial Position of The Allstate Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the related
Consolidated Statements of Operations, Comprehensive Income, Shareholders' Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013. We also have audited the
Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in    Internal Control   Integrated Framework
(1992)    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying     Item 9A. Controls and Procedures   . Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and an opinion on the Company's
internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.   

  We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.   

  A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing
similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

  Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to
error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are
subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

  In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Allstate Corporation and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2013, based on the criteria established in    Internal Control   Integrated Framework (1992)    issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 20, 2014   

  198  

Table of Contents    

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure            

None.   

Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures            

           Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.       We maintain disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based upon this evaluation, the principal executive officer and the
principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective in providing reasonable assurance that material information required to be disclosed in our reports
filed with or submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the Securities
Exchange Act and made known to management, including the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   

           Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.       Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal
control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   

         Under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 based on the criteria related to internal control over financial reporting described in "Internal
Control   Integrated Framework (1992)" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation, management concluded that our
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2013.   

Deloitte  
Touche LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K, has issued
their attestation report on the Company's internal control over financial reporting, which is included herein.   

           Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting.       During the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2013, there have been no changes in
our
internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.    

Item 9B.  Other Information            

         On February 18, 2014 the Company filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware a Certificate of Correction to our Certificate of
Designations (the "Certificate of Designations") of Fixed Rate Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (the "Series A Preferred Stock"). The Certificate of Correction was filed
in order to correct the quarter end dates used in the application of the tests for the suspension of the declaration and payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock, in order that such
tests could be given proper effect. Under the Certificate of Designations, financial statements for the final quarter end dates would not have been available by the related dividend payment dates. The
Certificate of Correction replaced the definitions of "Final Quarter End Test Date" and "Preliminary Quarter End Test Date" in the Certificate of Designations so that they now refer to the appropriate
quarter end dates for the related dividend payment dates and such tests are given proper effect, as originally intended. The Certificate of Designations, reflecting this correction, is filed as
Exhibit 3.6 to this annual report on Form 10-K.   

  199  

Table of Contents   

Part III            

Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance            

Information regarding directors of The Allstate Corporation standing for election at the 2014 annual stockholders meeting is
incorporated in this Item 10 by reference to the descriptions in the Proxy Statement under the captions "Corporate Governance Practices   Proposal 1. Election of Directors."   

         Information
regarding our audit committee and audit committee financial experts is incorporated in this Item 10 by reference to the chart under the captions "Corporate Governance
Practices   Board Meetings and Committees" in the Proxy Statement.   

Information
regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated in this Item 10 by reference to "Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance" in the Proxy Statement.   

         Information
regarding executive officers of The Allstate Corporation is incorporated in this Item 10 by reference to Part I, Item 1 of this report under the caption
"Executive Officers of the Registrant."   

         We
have adopted a code of ethics that applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and controller. The text of our code of
ethics is posted on our Internet website, allstate.com.    

Item 11.  Executive Compensation            

         Information required for Item 11 is incorporated by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement with the following
captions:  

Corporate Governance Practices   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation    
           Director Compensation   
           Executive Compensation     

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters            

Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated in this Item 12 by
reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement with the following captions:  

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans   
           Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers   
           Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners    

Asset
managers, such as those that manage mutual funds and exchange traded funds, principally on behalf of third party investors, at times acquire sufficient voting ownership interests
in Allstate to require disclosure. BlackRock, Inc. has disclosed that it, together with certain subsidiaries, held 6.1% of our common stock as of December 31, 2013. BlackRock also
manages a small portion of Allstate's investment portfolio under an investment management agreement and has licensed an investment technology software system to Allstate. The terms of these
arrangements are customary and the aggregate related fees are not material. Northern Trust Corporation has disclosed that it, together with certain subsidiaries, held 5.0% of our common stock as of
December 31, 2013, some of which was held by the Northern Trust Company as trustee on behalf of participants in Allstate's 401(k) Savings Plan.    

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence            

         Information required for Item 13 is incorporated by reference to the material in the Proxy Statement under the captions
"Corporate Governance Practices   Related Person Transactions" and "Corporate Governance Practices   Nominee Independence Determinations."   

Item 14.  Principal Accounting Fees and Services            

         Information required for Item 14 is incorporated by reference to the material in the Proxy Statement under the captions
"Proposal 4. Ratification of the Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accountant."   

  200  

Table of Contents    

Part IV            

           Item 15.  (a) (1) Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.            

         The following consolidated financial statements, notes thereto and related information of The Allstate Corporation (the "Company") are
included in Item 8.   

Consolidated
Statements of Operations 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Quarterly Results 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

           Item 15.  (a) (2)            

The following additional financial statement schedules and independent auditors' report are furnished herewith pursuant to the
requirements of Form 10-K.   

The Allstate Corporation

Page   

Schedules required to be filed under the provisions of Regulation S-X Article 7:  

Schedule I   
      
    Summary of Investments   Other than Investments in Related Parties   
      
    S-1   

Schedule II   
     
   Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (The Allstate Corporation)   
     
   S-2   

Schedule III   
     
   Supplementary Insurance Information   
     
   S-6   

Schedule IV   
     
   Reinsurance   
     
   S-7   

Schedule V   
     
   Valuation Allowances and Qualifying Accounts   
     
   S-8   

Schedule VI   
     
   Supplementary Information Concerning Consolidated Property-Casualty InsuranceOperations   
     
   S-9   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
     
   S-10   

All
other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or not required, or because the required information is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or in notes
thereto.    

           Item 15.  (a) (3)            

         The following is a list of the exhibits filed as part of this Form 10-K. The exhibit numbers followed by an asterisk (*)
indicate exhibits that are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements. A dagger ( ) indicates an award form first used under The Allstate Corporation 2001 Equity Incentive
Plan, which was amended and restated as The Allstate Corporation 2009 Equity Incentive Plan: A plus (+) indicates an award form first used under The Allstate Corporation 2009 Equity Incentive Plan,
which was amended and restated as The Allstate Corporation 2013 Equity Incentive Plan.   

201  

Table of Contents   

202  

Table of Contents   

203  

Table of Contents   

204  

Table of Contents   

205  

Table of Contents   

Incorporated by Reference    

Exhibit 
Number    
     
   Exhibit Description    
     
   Form    
     
   File 
Number    
     
   Exhibit    
     
   Filing Date    
     
   Filed or 
Furnished 
Herewith    

23  
     
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

X  

31(i)  
      
   Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Principal Executive Officer  

X  

31(i)  
      
   Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Principal Financial Officer  

X  

32  
      
   Section 1350 Certifications  

X  

101.INS  
      
   XBRL Instance Document  

X  

101.SCH  
      
   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema  

X  

101.CAL  
      
   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase  

X  

101.DEF  
      
   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase  

X  

101.LAB  
      
   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase  

X  

101.PRE  
      
   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase  

X  

Item 15.  (b)            

         The exhibits are listed in Item 15. (a)(3) above.    

Item 15.  (c)            

         The financial statement schedules are listed in Item 15. (a)(2) above.   

  206  

Table of Contents    

SIGNATURES            

         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION 
(Registrant)  

/s/ Samuel H. Pilch 

By: Samuel H. Pilch     
(Senior Group Vice President and Controller)  

February 19, 2014  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.   

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ Thomas J. Wilson 

Thomas J. Wilson  
     
  Chairman of the Board, President, Chief Executive Officer and a 
Director (Principal Executive Officer)  
     
  February 19, 2014  

/s/ Steven E. Shebik 

Steven E. Shebik  
      
   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer)  
      
   February 19, 2014  

/s/ F. Duane Ackerman 

F. Duane Ackerman  
      
   Director  
      
   February 19, 2014  

/s/ Robert D. Beyer 

Robert D. Beyer  
      
   Director  
      
   February 19, 2014  

/s/ Kermit R. Crawford 

Kermit R. Crawford  
      
   Director  
      
   February 19, 2014  

/s/ Jack M. Greenberg 

Jack M. Greenberg  
      
   Director  
      
   February 19, 2014  

/s/ Herbert L. Henkel 

Herbert L. Henkel  
      
   Director  
      
   February 19, 2014  

/s/ Ronald T. LeMay 

Ronald T. LeMay  
      
   Director  
      
   February 19, 2014  

/s/ Andrea Redmond 

Andrea Redmond  
      
   Director  
      
   February 19, 2014  

/s/ H. John Riley, Jr. 

H. John Riley, Jr.  
      
   Lead Director  
      
   February 19, 2014  

/s/ John W. Rowe 

John W. Rowe  
      
   Director  
      
   February 19, 2014  

/s/ Judith A. Sprieser 

Judith A. Sprieser  
      
   Director  
      
   February 19, 2014  

/s/ Mary Alice Taylor 

Mary Alice Taylor  
      
   Director  
      
   February 19, 2014  

207  

Table of Contents    

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   SCHEDULE I   SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS   OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES   DECEMBER 31, 2013            

S-1  

Table of Contents   

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   SCHEDULE II     CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT   STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS            

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information and notes to consolidated financial
statements.  

  S-2  

Table of Contents   

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   SCHEDULE II (CONTINUED)     CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT   STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION            

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information and notes to consolidated financial
statements.  

  S-3  

Table of Contents   

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   SCHEDULE II (CONTINUED)     CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT   STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS            

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information and notes to consolidated financial
statements.  

  S-4  

Table of Contents    

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   SCHEDULE II (CONTINUED)      CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT   NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION            

1.     General     

         The financial statements of the Registrant should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 8.
The long-term debt presented in Note 13 "Capital Structure" are
direct obligations of the Registrant, with the exception of the $44 million of synthetic lease obligations as of both December 31, 2013 and 2012. A majority of the pension and other
postretirement benefits plans presented in Note 18 "Benefit Plans" are direct obligations of the Registrant. Effective November 30, 2011, the Registrant became the sponsor of a majority
of the pension benefit plans presented in Note 18. Prior to November 30, 2011, a subsidiary of the Registrant was the sponsor of these plans.   

   2.    Supplemental Disclosures of Non-Cash Investing Activity and Cash Flow Information     

         The Registrant's assumption of the obligations associated with the pension benefit plans previously sponsored by a subsidiary of the Registrant resulted in a
non-cash decrease in the Registrant's investment in subsidiaries of $713 million, after-tax in 2011.   

The
Registrant paid $359 million, $364 million and $360 million of interest on debt in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

  S-5  

Table of Contents    

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE III   SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION     

(1)     A
single investment portfolio supports both Allstate Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments.    

S-6  

Table of Contents    

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   SCHEDULE IV   REINSURANCE            

(1)     No
reinsurance or coinsurance income was netted against premium ceded in 2013, 2012 or 2011.    

S-7  

Table of Contents    

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   SCHEDULE V   VALUATION ALLOWANCES AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS            

S-8  

Table of Contents    

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   SCHEDULE VI   SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONCERNING   CONSOLIDATED PROPERTY-CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS            

S-9  

Table of Contents    

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
The Allstate Corporation 
Northbrook, Illinois 60062   

  We
have audited the consolidated financial statements of The Allstate Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2013, and the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, and have issued our report thereon dated February 20, 2014;
such consolidated financial statements and report are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedules of the
Company listed in the accompanying index at Item 15. These consolidated financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 20, 2014   

  S-10  

<EX-3.6>
 2
 a2218256zex-3_6.htm
 EX-3.6

EXHIBIT 3.6   
     
  CERTIFICATE OF CORRECTION OF CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
     
  OF  
     
  FIXED RATE NONCUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES A  
     
  OF  
     
  THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION  
     
  The Allstate Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the   Corporation  ), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 103 thereof, does hereby certify:  
     
  1.         The name of the Corporation is The Allstate Corporation.  
     
  2.         The Certificate of Designations of Fixed Rate Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A of the Corporation (the   Certificate of Designations  ) was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on June 10, 2013 and such Certificate of Designations requires correction as permitted by subsection (f) of Section 103 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.  
     
  3.         The inaccuracy or defect of such Certificate of Designations to be corrected is that the definitions of   Final Quarter End Test Date   and   Preliminary Quarter End Test Date   in Section 6(e) thereof inadvertently provided incorrect dates in connection with interpretive provisions used in the quarterly tests for the suspension of the declaration and payment of dividends in Section 6.  
     
  4.         The Certificate of Designations is corrected by replacing the complete definitions of   Final Quarter End Test Date   and   Preliminary Quarter End Test Date   in Section 6(e) thereof with the following:  
     
     Final Quarter End Test Date   and   Preliminary Quarter End Test Date   mean, with respect to a Dividend Payment Date in the relevant month indicated under  Dividend Payment Date  in the table set forth below, the related date indicated under  Final Quarter End Test Date  or  Preliminary Quarter End Test Date  (as applicable) in such table:  

Dividend Payment Date        

Preliminary      Quarter End Test Date        

Final      Quarter End Test Date            

In January       

The March 31   preceding such Dividend Payment Date       

The September 30   preceding such Dividend Payment Date              

In April       

The June 30   preceding such Dividend Payment Date       

The December 31   preceding such Dividend Payment Date           

In July       

The September 30   preceding such Dividend Payment Date       

The March 31   preceding such Dividend Payment Date           

In October       

The December 31   preceding such Dividend Payment Date       

The June 30   preceding such Dividend Payment Date               
     
  5.               All other provisions of the Certificate of Designations remain unchanged. 
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The Allstate Corporation has caused this certificate to be signed by Mario Rizzo, its Senior Vice President and Treasurer, this 18  th  day of February, 2014. 

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION           

By       
 
  /s/ Mario Rizzo       

Name:       
 
  Mario Rizzo           

Title:       
 
  Senior Vice President and Treasurer              

</EX-3.6>

<EX-10.3>
 3
 a2218256zex-10_3.htm
 EX-10.3

EXHIBIT 10.3   

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION  
     
  DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN  
     
  AMENDED AND RESTATED AS OF  
     
  January 1, 2014  

ARTICLE I  
     
   DESIGNATION OF PLAN AND DEFINITIONS   
     
  1.1                               TITLE AND PURPOSE 
     
  (a)                      Title.  This Plan shall be known as  The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan.  
     
  (b)                         Purpose.  This Plan was established by The Allstate Corporation for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for eligible employees.  The Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained for a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ).  With respect to amounts deferred on or after January 1, 2005, this Plan is intended to be a nonqualified deferred compensation plan maintained in conformity with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and shall be interpreted accordingly. 
     
  (c)                          Effective Date and Plan History.  The Plan was adopted by Allstate Insurance Company effective January 1, 1995.  The Plan was amended and restated by the Company, effective January 1, 1996, November 11, 1997, September 1, 1999, November 1, 2000, November 1, 2001, June 1, 2002, October 7, 2002, May 28, 2004, December 31, 2008, July 31, 2009, January 1, 2011, January 1, 2013, and January 1, 2014.  The terms of this Plan are effective for all benefits under the Plan that are not fully distributed as of January 1, 2005, except that actions taken on or after January 1, 2005 and prior to December 31, 2008, are subject to the terms of the then existing Plan and, as applicable, a reasonable and good faith interpretation of Code Section 409A and the transition guidance provided thereunder. 

1.2                               GENERAL DEFINITIONS 
     
  Unless expressly stated otherwise, the following definitions will apply:  
     
  (a)                       Account  shall mean nominal bookkeeping entries made to state the balance of a Participant s benefit under the Plan.  A Participant s benefit under the Plan shall be comprised of the total of all sub-accounts, which may include a Pre-2005 Sub-Account and Post-2004 Sub-Account.   Account  shall also mean any amounts 
     
  Page 2    

deferred by a Participant, as adjusted for earnings and debits, under The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Employee Agents and The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractor Exclusive Agents.  
     
  (b)                      Beneficiary  or  Contingent Beneficiary  shall mean the person or persons last designated in writing by the Participant to the Committee, in accordance with Section 8.4 of this Plan. 
     
  (c)                       Board  shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company. 
     
  (d)                     Code  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, including regulations and guidance of general applicability issued thereunder. 
     
  (e)                       Committee  shall mean the Committee appointed by the Board of Directors pursuant to Article VI of this Plan, and shall mean those persons to whom the Committee has delegated administrative duties pursuant to Section 6.1(g). 
     
  (f)                        Company  shall mean The Allstate Corporation. 
     
  (g)                      Compensation  shall mean all of the items included in the term  Annual Compensation  as that term is defined in the Allstate Retirement Plan sponsored by the Company without regard to the annual compensation limit imposed by Code Section 401(a)(17). 
     
  (h)                      Compensation Floor  shall be the compensation limit in effect pursuant to Code Section 401(a)(17) for a Plan Year. 
     
  (i)                          Controlled Group  shall mean any corporation or other business entity which is included in a controlled group of corporations, within the meaning of section 1563(a)(i) of the Code, within which the Company is also included. 
     
  (j)                          Current Plan Year  shall mean the Plan Year in which amounts are deferred pursuant to a valid deferral election, in accordance with Section 2.2. 
     
  (k)                      Eligible Compensation  shall mean the greater of (i) an Employee s projected  Compensation based on his or her Compensation for the month ending on December 31 of the Prior Plan Year, annualized in such manner as the Committee shall determine; (ii) an Employee s projected annualized base salary based on his or her Compensation for the month ending on December 31 of the Prior Plan Year, 
     
  Page 3    

annualized in such manner as the Committee shall determine; or (iii) an Employee s Compensation for the calendar year two years before a Plan Year.  For purposes of this definition,  Compensation  shall not include any bonus amounts paid on a monthly, quarterly or other nonannual basis.  
     
  (l)                          Eligible Employee  shall mean any Employee who the Committee determines shall be eligible to participate in the Plan and whose (i) Eligible Salary is expected to exceed the Compensation Floor, or (ii) Eligible Compensation is expected to exceed the Compensation Floor for the Plan Year and, therefore, is eligible to make a deferral under Article II of this Plan. 
     
  (m)                  Eligible Salary  shall mean an Employee s base salary during the Prior Plan Year annualized in such manner as the Committee shall determine, plus any bonus amounts paid on a monthly, quarterly or other nonannual basis included as Compensation during the Prior Plan Year up through the date the Employee s eligibility is determined, as set forth by the Committee. 
     
  (n)                      Employee  shall mean any regular, full-time employee of the Employer, but shall in no event include persons classified as agents.  If a person is not considered to be an  Employee  for purposes of Plan eligibility, a later change in the person s status, even if the change in status is applicable to prior years, will not have a retroactive effect for Plan purposes. 
     
  (o)                      Employer  shall mean the Company, Allstate Insurance Company, Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company, Esurance Insurance Services, Inc. and any other entity within the Controlled Group that adopts the terms of the Plan, as agreed to by the entity s Board of Directors, with the approval of the Committee. 
     
  (p)                      Hardship  shall apply only to a Participant s Pre-2005 Sub-Account and shall mean a distribution that would satisfy the requirements of Code section 401(k)(2)(B)(i)(IV) from a tax-qualified plan maintained by an Employer, with the approval of the Committee. 
     
  (q)                      Incentive  shall mean the amount actually payable to a Participant under an annual cash incentive program sponsored by the employer.  An Incentive earned during a Plan Year becomes payable in the calendar year next following the Plan Year.  Any bonus amounts earned for periods of less than 12 months or that are payable to a 
     
  Page 4    

Participant on a monthly, quarterly or any other nonannual basis under any cash incentive or award program shall not be considered an Incentive under this Plan.  
     
  (r)                         Investment  shall mean the elections made by Participants, as allowed for in Section 4.3 of the Plan, to allocate and reallocate deferrals and Account balances among the Investment Options described in Section 4.3(b), together with accruals and adjustments reflecting the hypothetical experience of the Investment Options. 
     
  (s)                        Participant  shall mean an Eligible Employee who has an Account balance in the Plan. 
     
  (t)                         Plan  shall mean The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan as set forth herein, and as amended from time to time in accordance with Article VII hereof. 
     
  (u)                      Plan Year  shall mean the fiscal year of the Company, which is a calendar year. 
     
  (v)                      Post-2004 Sub-Account  shall mean a nominal bookkeeping sub-account of the Participant s Account established to state the balance of (i) Compensation deferred by a Participant under the Plan on or after January 1, 2005, as adjusted pursuant to Article IV of the Plan, (ii) any cash amounts automatically directed to this Plan on or after January 1, 2005 by action of the Board of Directors of The Allstate Corporation or a committee thereof; and (iii) earnings and losses on amounts contributed pursuant to (i) and (ii) of this subsection, pursuant to Article IV.   Post-2004 Sub-Account shall refer to the total of the Participant s benefit under this Plan with respect to amounts deferred or otherwise credited on or after January 1, 2005, pursuant to Section 4.2. 
     
  (w)                  Pre-2005 Sub-Account  shall mean a nominal bookkeeping sub-account of the Participant s Account established to state the balance of (i) Compensation that was fully earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005, and deferred by a Participant under the terms of the Plan then in effect; (ii) any cash amounts automatically directed to this Plan and fully earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 by action of the Board of Directors of The Allstate Corporation or a committee thereof; and (iii) subsequent earnings and losses on amounts contributed pursuant to (i) and (ii) of this subsection, pursuant to Article IV. 
     
  (x)                      Prior Plan Year  shall mean the Plan Year immediately preceding the Current Plan 
     
  Page 5    

Year.  
     
  (y)                      Separation from Service  shall mean the termination of employment or cessation or reduction of services by a Participant that results in a distribution as specifically defined and determined under Article V of the Plan.   Separation from Service  shall have distinct meanings with respect to the Pre-2005 Sub-Account and the Post-2004 Sub-Account, as set forth in Article V of the Plan. 
     
  (z)                       Unforeseeable Financial Emergency  shall apply only to a Participant s Post-2004 Sub-Account and shall mean a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s spouse, the Participant s beneficiary, or the Participant s dependent (as defined in Section 152 of the Code, without regard to Sections 152(b)(1), 152(b)(2) and 152(d)(1)(B) of the Code); loss of the Participant s property due to casualty; or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant; but shall not include any of the foregoing to the extent such emergency is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation from insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participant s assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not cause severe financial hardship), or by cessation of deferrals under the Plan.  In making its determination, the Committee shall be guided by the prevailing authorities applicable under the Code so as to result in the Participant not being in constructive receipt or subject to penalties under Code Section 409A with respect to any distribution or cancellation of a deferral due to an Unforeseeable Financial Emergency. 

ARTICLE II  
     
   PARTICIPATION   

2.1                               PARTICIPATION AND DEFERRAL ELECTIONS 
     
  An Eligible Employee shall become a Participant upon the filing of an election to defer base salary or Incentive and shall continue as a Participant until his or her Account has been fully paid pursuant to the provisions of Article V.  An election to defer base salary or Incentives shall specify the percentage of compensation to be deferred under the Plan for a Plan Year.  An election to defer base salary or Incentive shall be filed in the manner  
     
  Page 6    

and at the time that the Committee may specify in its discretion from time to time.  

2.2                               TIMING OF DEFERRAL ELECTIONS 
     
  (a)                      In no event shall a Participant be permitted to make a deferral election with respect to his or her base salary after December 31 of the calendar year preceding the Plan Year in which such deferral election shall take effect.  All elections to defer base salary for a Plan Year shall be irrevocable as of December 31 of the preceding Plan Year (or such earlier date as may be determined by the Committee from time to time) and, therefore, may not be changed by either the Committee or the Participant after December 31 (or such earlier date, if applicable). 
     
  (b)                     An election to defer Incentive shall be filed no later than December 31 of the calendar year preceding the Plan Year in which services are first performed with respect to such Incentive, unless the Committee determines that a Participant s Incentive constitutes  performance-based compensation  within the meaning of Code Section 409A.  In such case, the Committee may establish a later date for the filing of Incentive deferral elections; provided that, as of such date established by the Committee, Incentive is not readily ascertainable within the meaning of Code Section 409A, and further provided that such date shall in no event be later than 6 months prior to the end of the applicable performance period for such Incentive.  Such deferral election shall be irrevocable as of the filing date established by the Committee.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant s election made in 2008 to defer Incentive earned in 2008 shall apply to the Participant s entire Incentive earned in 2008, including any amounts that may not constitute performance-based compensation.  To the extent a Participant s election made in 2008 results in a deferral of any portion of the Participant s Incentive that does not constitute performance-based compensation, such deferral election shall be deemed to be a transition relief election pursuant to Code Section 409A. 
     
  (c)                       Evergreen  Deferral Elections.  The Committee may in its discretion establish rules from time to time under which deferral elections provided in this Section  2.2 shall remain in effect for all succeeding Plan Years in which the Participant is eligible to make a deferral election unless and until the Participant files a subsequent deferral election. 
     
  Page 7    

(d)                    Hardship and Unforeseeable Financial Emergency.  Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section 2.2, the Committee may in its sole discretion cancel all outstanding deferral elections of a Participant if the Participant experiences a Hardship or upon the Committee s determination that the Participant has experienced an Unforeseeable Financial Emergency.  Any subsequent election to defer shall be subject to the terms of this Section 2.2(a), (b), and (c). 

ARTICLE III  
     
   DEFERRALS   

3.1                               AMOUNT OF DEFERRAL 
     
  (a)                      Elections made pursuant to Section 2.2(a) to defer base salary shall be made in whole number percentages up to eighty (80) percent and shall apply only to base salary payable on or after the Participant has earned Compensation in the Plan Year equal to the Compensation Floor for the Plan Year. 
     
  (b)                     Elections made pursuant to Section 2.2(b) to defer Incentive shall be made in whole number percentages up to one hundred (100) percent.  If a Participant s Compensation (determined solely for this purpose on an annualized basis as of the date that such election becomes irrevocable pursuant to Section 2.2(b)) does not exceed the Compensation Floor, the election to defer Incentive shall be reduced dollar for dollar until the total of such Compensation and the Incentive that is not deferred and is payable to the Participant equals the Compensation Floor. 

3.2                               EFFECTIVE DATE OF DEFERRAL 
     
  Compensation deferred shall be credited to a Participant s Account by bookkeeping entry as set forth in Section 4.2.  

3.3                               USE OF AMOUNTS DEFERRED 
     
  Amounts credited to Accounts shall be a part of the general funds of the Company, shall be subject to all the risks of the Company s business, and may be deposited, invested or expended in any manner whatsoever by the Company.  
     
  Page 8    

ARTICLE IV  
     
   ACCOUNTS AND VESTING   

4.1                               ESTABLISHMENT OF ACCOUNT 
     
  The Committee shall establish, by bookkeeping entry on the books of the Company, an Account for each Participant.  Accounts shall not be funded in any manner.  
     
  4.2                               CONTRIBUTIONS TO ACCOUNT 
     
  The Committee shall cause deferred Compensation to be credited by bookkeeping entry to each Participant s Account as of the last day of the month in which the Compensation or any cash amounts automatically directed to this Plan otherwise would have been payable to the Participant, or as soon thereafter as is administratively practicable.  
     
  4.3                               MAINTENANCE OF ACCOUNT BALANCES - INVESTMENT 
     
  (a)                      A Participant may make an Investment with respect to amounts in his or her Account.  Each Investment shall be made in accordance with procedures established by the Committee and shall specify that portion of the Participant s deferrals on the date of such election to be invested in each Investment Option (as defined in Section 4.3(b) below).  In its sole discretion, the Committee may withhold one or more of the Investment Options from Investment by Participants for a Plan Year or Years.  Investments of deferrals must be made in whole percentage increments. 
     
  Each Account shall be adjusted, as applicable, to apply contributions, dividend equivalents, investment gains and losses net of any Plan administration and investment expenses, and distributions.  All such adjustments shall be bookkeeping entries reflecting hypothetical experience for the Investment Options in which Investments are made.  
     
  (b)                     The Investment Options in which Investments may be made are: 
     
  (1)                     Investment Option #1   Stable Value Fund. The Stable Value Fund, managed by Invesco Advisors, Inc., ( Invesco ) includes a number of investment contracts issued by a diversified group of high quality insurance companies, 
     
  Page 9    

banks, and other financial institutions (excluding Allstate companies), each backed by one or more diversified bond portfolios.  
     
  The investment contracts are supported by use of investment portfolios holding a diversified mix of high quality fixed-income securities. To provide some diversification in the fund by style of fixed income management, Invesco may from time to time select one or more fixed income sub-advisors to manage portions of the fund consistent with the fund s overall objectives.  Derivative securities may be used for hedging and replication purposes only. U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Treasury futures may be used to manage interest rate risk.  
     
  The Stable Value Fund s objective is to seek preservation of capital, and to provide liquidity and a reasonably predictable return that moves gradually toward the current short- to intermediate- term market interest rates. As the fund seeks to preserve principal value, Invesco controls risk by diversifying the fund among a variety of high quality fixed income investments, fixed income sub-advisors, and investment contracts.  
     
  The credited rate of interest of the Stable Value Fund is the average return of all investments held in the fund.  
     
  (2)                            Investment Option #2   Bond Fund.  The Bond Fund invests in the U.S. Bond Index Non-Lending Series Fund - Class A, a collective fund managed by State Street Global Advisors (SSgA).  The fund s objective is to approximate as closely as practicable, before expenses, the performance of the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Bond Index (the  Barclays Index ) over the long term.  The Barclays Index is an index representative of well-diversified exposure to the overall U.S. bond market.  More specifically, it covers the dollar-denominated investment-grade fixed-rate taxable bond market, including U.S. Treasuries, government-related and corporate securities, mortgaged pass-through securities, asset-backed securities, and commercial mortgage-backed securities.  The fund may attempt to invest in the securities comprising the Barclays Index in the same proportions as they are represented in the Barclays Index. However, it may not be possible for the fund to purchase some of the securities comprising the Barclays Index. In such a case, SSgA will select 
     
  Page 10    

securities for the fund that SSgA believes will reasonably track the characteristics of the Barclays Index.  
     
  (3)                           Investment Option #3   S P 500 Fund 1 .  The S P 500 Fund invests in the S P 500 Index Non-Lending Series Fund   Class A, a collective fund managed by SSgA. The fund s objective is to approximate as closely as practicable, before expenses, the performance of the Standard   Poor s (S P) 500 (the  S P 500 Index ) over the long term.  The S P 500 Index consists of large capitalization stocks across over 24 industry groups and 500 stocks chosen for market size, liquidity and industry group representation. The fund seeks to maintain the returns of the S P 500 Index by investing in a portfolio that replicates the S P 500 Index by owning securities in approximately the same proportions as they are represented in the S P 500 Index or by constructing a portfolio that SSgA believes will reasonably track the characteristics of the S P 500 Index. 
     
  (4)                           Investment Option #4   International Equity Fund.  The International Equity Fund invests in the Global Equity ex U.S. Index Non-Lending Series Fund - Class A, a collective fund managed by SSgA.  The fund s objective is to approximate as closely as practicable, before expenses, the performance of the Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) ACWI ex-USA Index (the  ACWI ex-USA Index ) over the long term. The ACWI ex-USA Index is a free float-adjusted market capitalization weighted index that is designed to measure the equity market performance of developed and emerging markets.  The ACWI ex-USA Index consists of approximately 1,800 stocks in selected markets with emerging markets representing approximately 20%.  MSCI attempts to capture approximately 85% of the total market capitalization in each country. The fund seeks to maintain the returns of the ACWI ex-USA Index by investing in a portfolio that replicates the ACWI ex-USA Index by owning securities in approximately the same proportions as they are  

1     Standard   Poor s  , S P , S P 500 Index  and  Standard   Poor s 500 Index  are trademarks of McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and have been licensed for use by State Street Bank and Trust Company.  The product is not sponsored, endorsed, listed, sold or promoted by Standard   Poor s ( S P ), and S P makes no representation regarding the advisability of investing in this product.  
     
  Page 11    

represented in the ACWI ex-USA Index or by constructing a portfolio that SSgA believes will reasonably track the characteristics of the ACWI ex-USA Index.  
     
  Restrictions apply to reallocations or transfers of money into the International Equity Fund. This means that Participants are prohibited from using the reallocation or transfer feature to move money into the International Equity Fund within any 30-calendar day period following the date money is moved out of the International Equity Fund through reallocation or transfer. Any subsequent reallocation or transfer of money out of the International Equity Fund during a 30-calendar day restriction period will start a new 30-day restriction period. The 30-calendar day restriction does not apply to Participant deferrals into the International Equity Fund or to hardship withdrawals from the International Equity Fund.  
     
  Reallocations or transfers of money out of the International Equity Fund are allowed at any time. The restriction applies only to reallocations or transfers into the International Equity Fund.  
     
  (5)                           Investment Option #5   Russell 2000 Fund 2 .  The Russell 2000 Fund invests in the Russell Small Cap Index Non-Lending Series Fund   Class A, a collective fund managed by SSgA. The fund s objective is to approximate as closely as practicable, before expenses, the performance of the Russell 2000 Index, over the long term. The Russell 2000 Index measures the performance of the small-cap segment of the U.S. equity universe.  It is a subset of the Russell 3000 Index and includes approximately 2,000 of the smallest securities based on a combination of their market capitalization and current index memberships.   The fund seeks to match the return of the Russell 2000 Index by investing in a portfolio that holds the securities of the Russell 2000 Index in approximately the same proportions as they are represented in the Russell 2000 Index or by constructing a portfolio that SSgA believes will reasonably track the characteristics of the Russell 2000 Index. 

2    Russell Investment Group is the source and owner of the trademarks, service marks, and copyrights relating to the Russell Indexes. Russell  2000     Index is a trademark of the Russell Investment Group.  
     
  Page 12    

(6)                           Investment Option #6 - The Mid-Cap Fund 3 .  The Mid-Cap Fund invests in the S P Mid-Cap Index Non-Lending Series Fund   Class A, a collective fund managed by SSgA. The fund s objective is to approximate as closely as practicable, before expenses, the performance of the S P Mid-Cap 400 Index (the  Mid-Cap Index ) over the long term.  The Mid-Cap Index is a cap-weighted index that measures the performance of the mid-range sector of the U.S. stock market.  The fund seeks to match the return of the Mid-Cap Index by owning securities  in approximately the same proportions as they are represented in the Mid-Cap Index or constructing a portfolio that SSgA believes will reasonably track the characteristics of the Mid-Cap Index. 
     
  (c)                      A Participant may change his Investment elections at such time and in such manner, and with respect to such existing Account balances and future contributions, as the Committee shall determine; any such changes to be effective only in accordance with such procedures as established from time to time by the Committee.  Any reallocations of existing Account balances must be made in whole percentage increments.  A reallocation election will become effective as set forth in Plan procedures.  Any reallocations of existing Account balances made under this Plan will simultaneously apply to any amounts the Participant may have deferred under either The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Employee Agents or The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractor Exclusive Agents. 

4.4                               VESTING 
     
  A Participant shall be fully vested in his or her Account at all times, subject to Sections 3.3, 8.2 and 8.3.  
     
  ARTICLE V  
     
   PAYMENTS   

3    S P MidCap 400     Index is a trademark of Standard   Poor s Financial Services LLC.,  and has been licensed for use by State Street Bank and Trust. The product is not sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted by Standard   Poor s (S P), and S P makes no representation regarding the advisability of investing in this product.  
     
  Page 13    

5.1                               EVENTS CAUSING ACCOUNTS TO BECOME DISTRIBUTABLE 
     
  (a)         Pre-2005 Sub-Account.   All references to  Account  in this Section 5.1(a) shall refer solely to the portion of a Participant s Account, if any, that is the Pre-2005 Sub-Account.  
     
  (1)                         A Participant s Account shall become distributable upon notification to the Plan of the Participant s Separation from Service or, at the election of the Participant pursuant to Section 5.3(a), in one of the first through fifth years after Separation from Service.  In either event, the Participant may elect to receive payment in a lump sum or in annual installments as provided in Section 5.3(a). 
     
  For purposes of this Section 5.1(a),  Separation from Service  shall mean the termination of a Participant s employment with any company in the Controlled Group for any reason whatsoever, including retirement, resignation, dismissal or death, but does not include a transfer of status to an employee agent or to an Exclusive Agent Independent Contractor or Exclusive Financial Specialist Independent Contractor for Allstate Insurance Company, Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company, Allstate Life Insurance Company or for any other member of the Controlled Group.   Separation from Service  shall also mean the subsequent termination of any Exclusive Agent Independent Contractor or Exclusive Financial Specialist Independent Contractor agreement, unless such termination results from acceptance of employment with any member of the Controlled Group.  
     
  (2)                         That portion of a Participant s Account determined to be necessary to alleviate a demonstrated Hardship shall become distributable upon the date of such determination, subject to Section 5.2. 
     
  (3)                         Special Distribution Rule for Participants Prior to September 1, 1999.  For those Participants who irrevocably elected to do so on or before September 1, 1999, such Participants may receive a distribution as of the first day of any Plan Year prior to his or her Separation from Service. The portion of the Participant s Account attributable to Compensation deferred, and 
     
  Page 14    

accruals thereon, shall be distributed on the date elected.  Any balance in the Participant s Account remaining after any payment under this paragraph and any balance in the Account attributable to participation in the Plan in any year subsequent to the year in which a payout on such date certain occurs, shall become distributable to the Participant as provided in paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) of this Section 5.1(a).  
     
  (4)                         Effective September 1, 1999, a Participant may at any time irrevocably elect to receive a distribution of his or her entire Account balance, subject to the forfeiture to the Company of 10% of such Account balance (a  100% In-Service Withdrawal ) provided that any deferral election for the current Plan Year will continue subject to Section 2.2(a) and the Participant may not elect to defer any base salary or Incentives earned during the next succeeding Plan Year ( Suspension Period ). If a Participant elects a 100% In-Service Withdrawal after the enrollment period for the next succeeding Plan Year and before the end of the current Plan Year, then any deferral election for base salary or Incentives earned during the next succeeding Plan Year will be cancelled.  The Participant s Account balance shall become distributable subject to Section 5.2 following the date of such election. 
     
  (5)                         In the event of a Participant s death prior to distribution of his or her entire Account balance, the remaining Account balance shall become distributable following the date on which all events have occurred which entitle the Beneficiary or Beneficiaries to payment. 
     
  (b)                                  Post-2004 Sub-Account.  All references to  Account  in this Section 5.1(b) shall refer solely to the portion of a Participant s Account, if any, that is the Post-2004 Sub-Account. 
     
  (1)                         Distributions of the Account shall be made (in the case of a lump sum) or commence (in the case of installments) on the first day of the first calendar month that commences after the six (6) month anniversary of the Participant s Separation from Service.  Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 5.3, distributions shall be in the form of a single lump sum payment.  For purposes of this Section 5.1(b),  Separation from Service  
     
  Page 15    

shall mean a termination of employment upon which a Participant ceases performing services for all entities within the Controlled Group.  Notwithstanding, a Separation from Service shall also include a reduction in a Participant s rate of services to any such entity that is reasonably anticipated to be a permanent reduction to a rate that is 20 percent or less of the average rate of services performed by the Participant in the 36 months prior to such reduction.  If a Participant ceases or reduces services under a bona fide leave of absence, a Separation from Service occurs after the close of the 6-month anniversary of such leave; provided, however, that if the Participant has a statutory or contractual right to reemployment, the Separation from Service shall be delayed until the date that the Participant s right ceases or, if the Participant resumes services, until the Participant subsequently Separates from Service.  For purposes of determining whether a Participant has a Separation from Service, services taken into account shall include services performed for the Company as an independent contractor but not services performed as a non-employee member of the board of directors of any entity within the Controlled Group.  Determination of whether a Separation from Service occurs shall be made in a manner that is consistent with Treas. Reg. 1.409A-1(h).  
     
  (2)                         In the event of a Participant s death prior to the full distribution of his or her Account, the undistributed Account shall be distributed to the Participant s Beneficiary within 90 days of the Participant s death. 
     
  (3)                         The Committee retains sole discretion to determine whether and to what extent all or any portion of an Account may be payable on account of an Unforeseeable Financial Emergency.  If the Committee determines that such distribution shall be made, payment shall be made within 30 days of the determination of Unforeseeable Financial Emergency and the Committee may, in its discretion, determine how any partial distribution of the Account shall be allocated among the hypothetical Investment options applicable to such Account. 
     
  (4)                         Payment Dates.  If a payment is due on a nonbusiness day or a federal or 
     
  Page 16    

state holiday, such payment shall be due on the next succeeding business day.  

5.2                               NOTICE OF ACCOUNT PAYMENT AND COMMENCEMENT OF DISTRIBUTION FOR PRE-2005 SUB-ACCOUNTS 
     
  The Committee or its appointed representative shall notify a Participant or Beneficiary, as the case may be, as soon as practicable after the first day of the month next following the date on which the Pre-2005 Sub-Account becomes distributable, that he or she is entitled to receive payment from the Pre-2005 Sub-Account, the balance of which shall be computed as of the close of business on the last day of the month in which the Pre-2005 Sub-Account becomes distributable.  Distribution of Pre-2005 Sub-Account balances shall commence as soon as practicable after the first day of the month next following the date on which the Pre-2005 Sub-Account becomes distributable.  

5.3                               FORM OF PAYMENT 
     
  (a)                      Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section 5.3 and Article VIII hereof, payments of Account balances to a Participant shall be in the form of one lump sum payment or annual cash installment payments over a minimum of 2 and a maximum of 10 years, at the election of the Participant.  The provisions of this Section 5.3 apply separately to the Pre-2005 Sub-Account and the Post-2004 Sub-Account and, accordingly, different forms of payments may be made from each such sub-account. 
     
  (b)                     The amount of each annual installment payable to a Participant who has elected to receive installment payments shall be as follows:  The first annual installment payment shall, for a Participant who has elected to receive installment payments commencing upon his or her Separation from Service, be computed as of the close of business on the last day of the month in which the Account becomes distributable, and the amount of such payment shall equal his or her Account balance as of such date, divided by the number of installments including the one being paid.  The first annual installment payment shall, for a Participant who has elected to receive installment payments commencing in one of the first through fifth 
     
  Page 17    

years after Separation from Service, be computed as of the close of the first business day of the year preceding the year in which the Account balance becomes distributable, and the amount of such payment shall equal his or her Account balance as of such date, divided by the number of installments including the one being paid.  Each subsequent installment payment shall be computed as of the close of the last business day of the year thereafter, and the amount of each subsequent payment shall equal his or her remaining Account balance, divided by the number of remaining installments including the one being paid.  Investment gains or losses and other adjustments shall continue with respect to the entire unpaid Account balance, as provided in Section 4.3.  
     
  (c)                      In the event of a Participant s death prior to distribution of his or her entire Account balance, the remaining Account balance shall be paid in a lump sum to the Participant s Beneficiary or Beneficiaries, subject to Sections 5.1(a)(5) and 5.1(b)(2). 
     
  (d)                    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) above, if the Account balance is $5,000 or less on any date a payment is to be made to a Participant, the payment shall be the remaining unpaid Account balance. 

5.4                               DISTRIBUTION ELECTION 
     
  (a)                      Each Participant shall elect his or her desired form of payment, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, at the time of his or her initial participation election set forth in Section 2.1. 
     
  (b)                     This Section 5.4(b) shall apply solely with respect to Pre-2005 Sub-Accounts. Except for distribution elections under Section 5.1(a)(3) and (4), each Participant may from time to time revise the terms of distribution of the Participants Accounts, in accordance with the procedures established by the Committee, provided that (i) the revised notice of the desired form of payment shall be made by the Participant no less than twelve months prior to the date on which payment is to commence, but in any event no later than the day before the date of the Participant s Separation from Service and (ii) in any event, distribution of the Participant s Account shall not commence earlier than twelve months after the Participant s revised notice of the desired form of payment is made. 
     
  Page 18    

(c)                      This Section 5.4(c) shall apply solely with respect to Post-2004 Sub-Accounts.  Installments shall be paid only if a Participant filed an irrevocable election to receive installment payments in a manner acceptable to the Committee on or before the later of December 31, 2008, or the date of the Participant s initial election to defer base salary or Incentive under the Plan.  Installment payments shall be treated as a right to a series of separate payments for purposes of Code Section 409A. 
     
  ARTICLE VI  
     
   ADMINISTRATION   
     
  6.1                               GENERAL ADMINISTRATION; RIGHTS AND DUTIES 
     
  The Board shall appoint the Committee, which, subject to the express limitations of the Plan, shall be charged with the general administration of the Plan on behalf of the Participants.  The Committee shall also be responsible for carrying out its provisions, and shall have all powers necessary to accomplish those purposes, including, but not by way of limitation, the following:  
     
  (a)                 To construe and interpret the Plan; 
     
  (b)                To compute the amount of benefits payable to Participants; 
     
  (c)                 To authorize all disbursements by the Company of Account balances pursuant to the Plan; 
     
  (d)               To maintain all the necessary records for the administration of the Plan; 
     
  (e)                 To make and publish rules for administration and interpretation of the Plan and the transaction of its business; 
     
  (f)                  To make available to each Participant the current value of his or her Account; 
     
  (g)                To delegate the administration of the Plan in accordance with its terms to officers or employees of the Company, of Allstate Insurance Company or of an independent consultant retained by the Committee who the Committee believes to be reliable and competent.  The Committee may authorize officers or employees of the Company or of Allstate Insurance Company to whom it has delegated duties under the Plan to appoint other persons to assist the delegate in 
     
  Page 19    

administering the Plan; and  
     
  (h)                To refuse to accept the deferral of amounts the Committee or its delegate considers too small to be administratively feasible. 
     
  The determination of the Committee as to any disputed question or controversy shall be conclusive.  
     
  6.2       CLAIMS PROCEDURES 

Each Participant or Beneficiary (for purposes of this Section 6.2. referred to as a  Claimant ) may submit a claim for benefits to the Committee (or other person designated by the Committee) in writing in such form as is permitted by the Committee.  A Claimant shall have no right to seek review of a denial of benefits, or to bring any action in any court to enforce a claim for benefits, prior to his filing a claim for benefits and exhausting his rights to review in accordance with this Section 6.2.  

A properly filed claim for benefits shall be evaluated and the Claimant shall be notified in writing of the approval or the denial within ninety (90) days after the receipt of such claim unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim.  If such an extension of time is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the Claimant prior to the termination of the initial ninety (90) day period, and such notice shall specify the special circumstances requiring an extension and the date by which a final decision will be reached (which date shall not be later than one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date on which the claim was filed).  Written notice to a Claimant shall advise whether the claim is granted or denied, in whole or in part, and if denied, shall contain (1) the specific reasons for the denial, (2) references to pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based, (3) a description of any additional material or information necessary to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and (4) the Claimant s rights to seek a review of the denial.  
     
  If a claim is denied, in whole or in part, the Claimant shall have the right to request that the Committee (or person designated by the Committee) review the denial, provided that he files a written request for review with the Committee within sixty (60) days after the date on which he received written notice of the denial.  A Claimant (or his duly  
     
  Page 20    

authorized representative) may review pertinent documents and submit issues and comments in writing to the Committee.  Within sixty (60) days after a request for review is received, the review shall be made and the Claimant shall be advised in writing of the decision on review, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the review, in which case the Claimant shall, within such initial sixty (60) day period, be given a written notice specifying the reasons for the extension and when such review shall be completed (provided that such review shall be completed within one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date on which the request for review was filed).  The decision on review shall be forwarded to the Claimant in writing and shall include specific reasons for the decision and references to Plan provisions upon which the decision is based.  A decision on review shall be final and binding on all persons for all purposes.  
     
  ARTICLE VII  
     
   PLAN AMENDMENTS AND TERMINATION   
     
  7.1                               AMENDMENTS 
     
  The Company shall have the right to amend this Plan from time to time by resolutions of the Board or by the Committee, and to amend or rescind any such amendments; provided, however, that no action under this Section 7.1 shall in any way reduce the amount of Compensation deferred or reduce the value of any Account.  All amendments shall be in writing and shall be effective as provided subject to the limitations in this Section 7.1.  
     
  7.2                               TERMINATION OF PLAN 
     
  The Company expects that the Plan will continue indefinitely but continuance of the Plan is not a contractual or other obligation of the Company.  The Company reserves its right to discontinue the Plan at any time by resolution of the Board; however, no such action shall reduce the value of an Account or result in a distribution that does not conform to the requirements of Code Section 409A.  
     
  ARTICLE VIII  
     
   MISCELLANEOUS   
     
  Page 21    

8.1                               NOTIFICATION TO COMMITTEE 
     
  Any election made or notification given by a Participant pursuant to this Plan shall be made in accordance with procedures established by the Committee or its designated representative, and shall be deemed to have been made or given on the date received by the Committee or such representative.  

8.2                               PARTICIPANT S EMPLOYMENT 
     
  Participation in this Plan shall not give any Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company, Allstate Insurance Company of any member of the Controlled Group, or any other right or interest other than as herein provided.  No Participant or Employee shall have any right to any payment or benefit except to the extent provided in this Plan.  

8.3                               STATUS OF PARTICIPANTS 
     
  This Plan shall create only a contractual obligation on the part of the Company and shall not be construed as creating a trust or other fiduciary relationship with Participants.  Participants will have only the rights of general unsecured creditors of the Company with respect to Compensation deferred and investment gains and losses credited to their Accounts.  

8.4                               BENEFICIARIES AND CONTINGENT BENEFICIARIES 
     
  (a)                                  Beneficiary Designation.  Each Participant shall, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, designate one or more persons or entities (including a trust or trusts or his or her estate) to receive distribution of his or her Account that are not distributed prior to the Participant s death.  The Participant may also designate a person or persons as a Contingent Beneficiary who shall succeed to the rights of the person or persons originally designated as Beneficiary, in case the latter should die.  The Participant may from time to time change any designation of Beneficiary or Contingent Beneficiary so made, by submitting a new designation in accordance with procedures established by the Committee.  The last valid designation made by a Participant under the Plan, in accordance 
     
  Page 22    

with procedures established by the Committee, shall be controlling.  

(b)                                 Spousal Consent Required.  In the event a Participant designates a person other than his or her spouse as Beneficiary of any interests under this Plan, the Participant s spouse shall sign a notarized statement specifically approving such designation and authorizing the Committee to make payment of such interests in the manner provided in such designation.  In the absence of such designation by the Participant, or in the absence of spousal approval and authorization as herein above provided, or in the event of the death, prior to or simultaneous with the death of the Participant, of all Beneficiaries or Contingent Beneficiaries, as the case may be, to whom payments were to be made pursuant to a designation by the Participant, such payments or any balance thereof shall be paid to the Participant s spouse or, if there is no surviving spouse, to the Participant s estate, or, if there is no estate, according to the Illinois laws of descent and distribution. 
     
  (c)                                  Death of Beneficiary.  In the event of the death, subsequent to the death of the Participant, of a Beneficiary or Contingent Beneficiary, as the case may be, to whom such payments were to be made or were being made pursuant to a designation under this section, such payments or any balance thereof shall be paid to the estate of such Beneficiary or Contingent Beneficiary. 

8.5                               TAXES AND OTHER CHARGES 
     
  To the extent permitted by law, if the whole or any part of a Participant s Account shall become the subject of any federal, state or local tax which the Company shall legally be required to withhold or pay, the Company shall reduce an Account with respect to such tax paid.  

8.6                               BENEFITS NOT ASSIGNABLE; OBLIGATIONS BINDING UPON SUCCESSORS 
     
  Before a Participant s Account becomes distributable, benefits under this Plan and rights to receive the amounts credited to the Account of a Participant shall not be assignable or transferable and any purported transfer, assignment, pledge or other encumbrance or attachment of any payments or benefits under this Plan shall not be permitted or recognized.  Obligations of the Company under this Plan shall be binding upon  
     
  Page 23    

successors of the Company.  

8.7                               ILLINOIS LAW GOVERNS; SAVING CLAUSE 
     
  The validity of this Plan or any of its provisions shall be construed and governed in all respects under and by the laws of the State of Illinois.  If any provisions of this Plan shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be fully effective.  

8.8                               HEADINGS NOT PART OF PLAN 
     
  Headings and subheadings in this Plan are inserted for reference only, and are not to be considered in the construction of the provisions hereof.  
     
  Page 24    

</EX-10.3>

<EX-12>
 4
 a2218256zex-12.htm
 EX-12

Exhibit 12     

    THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION     

    COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES RATIO     

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 5
 a2218256zex-21.htm
 EX-21

Exhibit 21     

     Subsidiaries      

Company Name

Domicile

ALIC Reinsurance Company  
     
  South Carolina  

Allstate Assignment Company  
     
  Nebraska  

Allstate Assurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

Allstate County Mutual Insurance Company  
     
  Texas  

Allstate Distributors, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Allstate Enterprises, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Allstate Finance Company, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Allstate Financial Advisors, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Allstate Financial Corporation  
     
  Illinois  

Allstate Financial Services, LLC  (1)   
     
  Delaware  

Allstate Financial, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Allstate Fire and Casualty Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

Allstate Indemnity Company  
     
  Illinois  

Allstate Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

Allstate Insurance Company of Canada  
     
  Canada  

Allstate Insurance Holdings, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Allstate International Holdings, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

Allstate Investment Management Company  
     
  Delaware  

Allstate Investment Management Limited  
     
  United Kingdom  

Allstate Investments, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Allstate Life Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

Allstate Life Insurance Company of Canada  
     
  Canada  

Allstate Life Insurance Company of New York  
     
  New York  

Allstate Motor Club, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

Allstate New Jersey Property and Casualty Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

Allstate Non-Insurance Holdings, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

Allstate North American Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

Allstate Northern Ireland Limited  
     
  Northern Ireland  

Allstate Property and Casualty Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

Allstate Settlement Corporation  
     
  Nebraska  

Allstate Solutions Private Limited  
     
  India  

Allstate Texas Lloyd's  
     
  Texas  

Allstate Texas Lloyd's, Inc.  
     
  Texas  

Allstate Vehicle and Property Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

American Heritage Life Insurance Company  
     
  Florida  

American Heritage Life Investment Corporation  
     
  Delaware  

American Heritage Service Company  
     
  Florida  

Answer Financial Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

AP Real Estate, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

AP Timber, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Castle Key Indemnity Company  
     
  Illinois  

Castle Key Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

Charter National Life Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

Current Creek Investments, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

E.R.J. Insurance Group, Inc.  (2)   
     
  Florida  

Encompass Floridian Indemnity Company  
     
  Illinois  

Encompass Floridian Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

Encompass Home and Auto Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

Encompass Indemnity Company  
     
  Illinois  

Encompass Independent Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

Encompass Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

Encompass Insurance Company of America  
     
  Illinois  

Encompass Insurance Company of Massachusetts  
     
  Massachusetts  

Company Name

Domicile

Encompass Insurance Company of New Jersey  
     
  Illinois  

Encompass Property and Casualty Company  
     
  Illinois  

Encompass Property and Casualty Insurance Company of New Jersey  
     
  Illinois  

Esurance Holdings, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

Esurance Insurance Company  
     
  Wisconsin  

Esurance Insurance Company of New Jersey  
     
  Wisconsin  

Esurance Insurance Services, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

Esurance Property and Casualty Insurance Company  
     
  California  

First Colonial Insurance Company  
     
  Florida  

Insurance Answer Center, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Intramerica Life Insurance Company  
     
  New York  

Ivantage Insurance Brokers Inc.  
     
  Canada  

Ivantage Select Agency, Inc.  
     
  Illinois  

Kennett Capital, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

Lincoln Benefit Facility Company, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Lincoln Benefit Life Company  
     
  Nebraska  

Lincoln Benefit Reinsurance Company  
     
  Vermont  

North Light Specialty Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

Northbrook Indemnity Company  
     
  Illinois  

Northbrook Services, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

Northeast Agencies, Inc.  
     
  New York  

Pablo Creek Services, Inc.  
     
  Illinois  

Pafco Insurance Company  
     
  Canada  

Pembridge Insurance Company  
     
  Canada  

Right Answer Insurance Agency, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Road Bay Investments, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Signature Agency, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

Signature Motor Club of California, Inc.  
     
  California  

Signature Motor Club, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

Signature Nationwide Auto Club of California, Inc.  
     
  California  

Signature's Nationwide Auto Club, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

Sterling Collision Centers, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

Tech-Cor, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

West Plaza RE Holdings, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

(1)     Doing
business as LSA Securities in Pennsylvania       (2)     Doing
business as American Heritage Insurance Services, E.R.J. Enterprises and E.R.J. Financial Services in Florida    

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 6
 a2218256zex-23.htm
 EX-23

Exhibit 23     

    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

         We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements of our reports dated February 20, 2014,
relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedules of The Allstate Corporation and the effectiveness of The Allstate Corporation's internal control over financial reporting,
appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Allstate Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2013, and to the reference to us under the heading "Experts" in the Prospectus,
which is part of the registration statements.   

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 20, 2014   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.(I)>
 7
 a2218256zex-31_i.htm
 EX-31.(I)

EXHIBIT 31 (i)     

    CERTIFICATIONS     

  I,
Thomas J. Wilson, certify that:   

  1.
I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of The Allstate Corporation;   

  2.
Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

  3.
Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

  4.
The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:   

a)
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;   

         b)
Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;   

c)
Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

         d)
Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and   

5.
The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

         a)
All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   

b)
Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.   

  Date:
February 20, 2014   

/s/ Thomas J. Wilson  
Thomas J. Wilson 
Chairman of the Board, 
President and Chief Executive Officer  

EXHIBIT 31 (i)     

    CERTIFICATIONS     

  I,
Steven E. Shebik, certify that:   

  1.
I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of The Allstate Corporation;   

  2.
Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

  3.
Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

  4.
The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:   

a)
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;   

         b)
Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;   

c)
Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

         d)
Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and   

5.
The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

         a)
All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   

b)
Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.   

  Date:
February 20, 2014   

/s/ Steven E. Shebik  
Steven E. Shebik 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.(I)>

<EX-32>
 8
 a2218256zex-32.htm
 EX-32

EXHIBIT 32     

     SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS      

         Each of the undersigned hereby certifies that to his knowledge the report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2013 of The Allstate Corporation filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 and that the information contained in such report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of The Allstate Corporation.   

Date: February 20, 2014  
     
   /s/ Thomas J. Wilson  
Thomas J. Wilson 
Chairman of the Board, 
President and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/ Steven E. Shebik  
Steven E. Shebik 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 all-20131231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 all-20131231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.DEF>
 11
 all-20131231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 12
 all-20131231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 all-20131231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 all-20131231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

