<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110225_10-K_edgar_data_200406_0000950123-11-018128_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>19449724</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>297161</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3928278</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1148109</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4945653</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>8700399</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>105</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-11-018128.hdr.sgml : 20110225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110224214840
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-11-018128
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		27
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20110102
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110224

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			JOHNSON & JOHNSON
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000200406
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				221024240
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0209

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03215
		FILM NUMBER:		11638342

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE JOHNSON & JOHNSON PLZ
		CITY:			NEW BRUNSWICK
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08933
		BUSINESS PHONE:		732-524-2455

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE JOHNSON & JOHNSON PLZ
		CITY:			NEW BRUNSWICK
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08933

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 MDpD3+thvbW0oFvZGrFZDXSmAn+6V8mx+hy0xRbv1GVwoDG01SRdK1qQJVpaTfv/
 1pMpAgzJAvPDdgiz4nt4lw==

 0000950123-11-018128.txt : 20110225

10-K
 1
 y86310ke10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
    COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

FORM 10-K   

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
    SECTION 13 OF  

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
    1934  

JOHNSON  
    JOHNSON  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)

New Jersey 

22-1024240 

(State of incorporation)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification
    No.) 

One Johnson   Johnson Plaza 
    New Brunswick, New Jersey 

08933 

(Address of principal executive
    offices)

(Zip Code) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:
      (732) 524-0400  

SECURITIES
    REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT  

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common Stock, Par Value $1.00

New York Stock Exchange 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Exchange
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Exchange Act during the preceding 12 months (or for
    such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
    such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
    requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of
     Regulation S-T 
    during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
    that the registrant was required to submit and post such
    files).  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule
     12b-2  of the
    Exchange Act.

Large
    accelerated
    filer          Accelerated
    filer           Non-accelerated 
    filer          Smaller
    reporting
    company     

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes         No   

The aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by
    non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the
    Common Stock was last sold as of the last business day of the
    registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter
    was approximately $163 billion.

On February 15, 2011 there were 2,735,213,719 shares
    of Common Stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Parts I, II and III:

Portions of registrant s annual report to shareholders for
    fiscal year 2010 (the  Annual Report ).

Parts I and III:

Portions of registrant s proxy statement for its 2011
    annual meeting of shareholders filed within 120 days after
    the close of the registrant s fiscal year (the  Proxy
    Statement ).

Item 

Page 

PART I 

1.

Business

1

General

1

Segments of Business

1

Geographic Areas

2

Raw Materials

2

Patents and Trademarks

2

Seasonality

3

Competition

3

Research and Development

3

Environment

3

Regulation

3

Available Information

4

1A.

Risk Factors

4

1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

4

2.

Properties

4

3.

Legal Proceedings

5

4.

(Removed and Reserved)

5

Executive Officers of the Registrant

5

PART II 

5.

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
    Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

7

6.

Selected Financial Data

7

7.

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operation

8

7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

8

8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

8

9.

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure

8

9A.

Controls and Procedures

8

9B.

Other Information

9

PART III 

10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

9

11.

Executive Compensation

9

12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
    and Related Stockholder Matters

10

13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence

10

14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

11

PART IV 

15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

11

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

12

Signatures

13

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    Financial Statement Schedule

15

Exhibit Index

16

PART I  

Item 1.    

BUSINESS  

General  

Johnson   Johnson and its subsidiaries have
    approximately 114,000 employees worldwide engaged in the
    research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range
    of products in the health care field. Johnson  
    Johnson is a holding company, which has more than 250 operating
    companies conducting business in virtually all countries of the
    world. Johnson   Johnson s primary focus has been
    on products related to human health and well-being.
    Johnson   Johnson was incorporated in the State of New
    Jersey in 1887.

The Company s structure is based on the principle of
    decentralized management. The Executive Committee of
    Johnson   Johnson is the principal management group
    responsible for the operations and allocation of the resources
    of the Company. This Committee oversees and coordinates the
    activities of the Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices
    and Diagnostics business segments. Each subsidiary within the
    business segments is, with some exceptions, managed by citizens
    of the country where it is located.

Segments
    of Business  

Johnson   Johnson s operating companies are
    organized into three business segments: Consumer, Pharmaceutical
    and Medical Devices and Diagnostics. Additional information
    required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the
    narrative and tabular (but not the graphic) descriptions of
    segments and operating results under the captions
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
    Operations and Financial Condition  on pages 30 through 40
    and Note 18  Segments of Business and Geographic
    Areas  under  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements  on page 61 of the Annual Report, filed as
    Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Consumer   

The Consumer segment includes a broad range of products used in
    the baby care, skin care, oral care, wound care and women s
    health care fields, as well as nutritional and
     over-the-counter 
    pharmaceutical products, and wellness and prevention platforms.
    The Baby Care franchise includes the
    JOHNSON S   

    Baby line of products. Major brands in the Skin Care franchise
    include the
    AVEENO   ;

    CLEAN  
    CLEAR   ;

    JOHNSON S   

    Adult;
    NEUTROGENA   ;

    RoC   ;

    LUBRIDERM   ;

    DABAO  tm  ;

    and Vend me product lines. The Oral Care franchise includes
    the
    LISTERINE   

    and
    REACH   

    oral care lines of products. The Wound Care franchise includes
    BAND-AID   

    brand adhesive bandages and
    Neosporin   

    First Aid products. Major brands in the Women s Health
    franchise are the
    CAREFREE   

    Pantiliners;
    o.b.   

    tampons and
    STAYFREE   

    sanitary protection products. The nutritional and
     over-the-counter 
    lines include
    SPLENDA   ,

    No Calorie Sweetener; the broad family of
    TYLENOL   

    acetaminophen products;
    SUDAFED   

    cold, flu and allergy products;
    ZYRTEC   

    allergy products;
    MOTRIN   

    IB ibuprofen products; and
    PEPCID   

    AC Acid Controller from Johnson   Johnson   Merck
    Consumer Pharmaceuticals Co. These products are marketed to the
    general public and sold both to retail outlets and distributors
    throughout the world.

Pharmaceutical   

The Pharmaceutical segment includes products in the following
    areas: anti-infective, antipsychotic, contraceptive,
    dermatology, gastrointestinal, hematology, immunology,
    neurology, oncology, pain management and virology. These
    products are distributed directly to retailers, wholesalers and
    health care professionals for prescription use. Key products in
    the Pharmaceutical segment include:
    REMICADE   

    (infliximab), a treatment for a number of immune mediated
    inflammatory diseases;
    STELARA   

    (ustekinumab), a treatment for moderate to severe plaque
    psoriasis;
    SIMPONI   

    (golimumab), a treatment for adults with moderate to severe
    rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing
    spondylitis;
    VELCADE   

    (bortezomib), a treatment for multiple myeloma;
    PREZISTA   

    (darunavir) and
    INTELENCE   

    (etravirine), treatments for HIV/AIDS;
    NUCYNTA   

    (tapentadol), a treatment for moderate to severe acute pain;
    INVEGA   

    SUSTENNA  tm  

    (paliperidone palmitate), for the acute and maintenance
    treatment of schizophrenia in adults;
    RISPERDAL   

    CONSTA   

    (risperidone), a treatment for the management of Bipolar I
    Disorder and schizophrenia;
    PROCRIT   

    (Epoetin alfa, sold outside the U.S. as
    EPREX   ),

    to stimulate red blood cell production;
    LEVAQUIN   

    (levofloxacin) for the treatment of bacterial infections;
    CONCERTA   

    (methylphenidate HCl), a treatment for attention deficit
    hyperactivity disorder;

ACIPHEX   /PARIET   ,

    a proton pump inhibitor co-marketed with Eisai Inc.;
    DURAGESIC   /Fentanyl

    Transdermal (fentanyl transdermal system, sold outside the
    U.S. as
    DUROGESIC   ),

    a treatment for chronic pain that offers a novel delivery system.

Medical
    Devices and Diagnostics   

The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment includes a broad
    range of products distributed to wholesalers, hospitals and
    retailers, used principally in the professional fields by
    physicians, nurses, therapists, hospitals, diagnostic
    laboratories and clinics. These products include Biosense
    Webster s electrophysiology products; Cordis 
    circulatory disease management products; DePuy s
    orthopaedic joint reconstruction, spinal care, neurological and
    sports medicine products; Ethicon s surgical care,
    aesthetics and women s health products; Ethicon
    Endo-Surgery s minimally invasive surgical products and
    advanced sterilization products; LifeScan s blood glucose
    monitoring and insulin delivery products; Ortho-Clinical
    Diagnostics  professional diagnostic products; and
    Vistakon s disposable contact lenses. Distribution to these
    health care professional markets is done both directly and
    through surgical supply and other dealers.

Geographic
    Areas  

The business of Johnson   Johnson is conducted by more
    than 250 operating companies located in 60 countries,
    including the United States, which are selling products in
    virtually all countries throughout the world. The products made
    and sold in the international business include many of those
    described above under    Segments of
    Business   Consumer, 
       Pharmaceutical  and
       Medical Devices and Diagnostics. 
    However, the principal markets, products and methods of
    distribution in the international business vary with the country
    and the culture. The products sold in international business
    include not only those developed in the United States, but also
    those developed by subsidiaries abroad.

Investments and activities in some countries outside the United
    States are subject to higher risks than comparable
    U.S. activities because the investment and commercial
    climate is influenced by restrictive economic policies and
    political uncertainties.

Raw
    Materials  

Raw materials essential to Johnson   Johnson s
    operating companies  businesses are generally readily
    available from multiple sources.

Patents
    and Trademarks  

Johnson   Johnson and its subsidiaries have made a
    practice of obtaining patent protection on their products and
    processes where possible. They own or are licensed under a
    number of patents relating to their products and manufacturing
    processes, which in the aggregate are believed to be of material
    importance to Johnson   Johnson in the operation of
    its businesses. Sales of the Company s largest product,
    REMICADE   

    (infliximab), accounted for approximately 7% of
    Johnson   Johnson s total revenues for fiscal
    2010. Accordingly, the patents related to this product are
    believed to be material to Johnson   Johnson.

In March of 2009,
    TOPAMAX   

    (topiramate) lost basic patent protection and market exclusivity
    and became subject to generic competition in the United States
    and later in the year in international markets. Sales of
    TOPAMAX   

    declined by 53.3% and 57.9% in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The
    next significant patent that will expire is for
    LEVAQUIN   

    (levofloxacin), which accounted for approximately 2% of the
    Company s 2010 sales. A pediatric extension for
    LEVAQUIN   

    was granted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
    ( FDA ), which extends market exclusivity in the
    United States through June 20, 2011.

Johnson   Johnson s operating companies have made
    a practice of selling their products under trademarks and of
    obtaining protection for these trademarks by all available
    means. These trademarks are protected by registration in the
    United States and other countries where such products are
    marketed. Johnson   Johnson considers these trademarks
    in the aggregate to be of material importance in the operation
    of its businesses.

2

Seasonality  

Worldwide sales do not reflect any significant degree of
    seasonality; however, spending has been heavier in the fourth
    quarter of each year than in other quarters. This reflects
    increased spending decisions, principally for advertising and
    research and development activity.

Competition  

In all of their product lines, Johnson  
    Johnson s operating companies compete with companies both
    local and global, located throughout the world. Competition
    exists in all product lines without regard to the number and
    size of the competing companies involved. Competition in
    research, involving the development and the improvement of new
    and existing products and processes, is particularly
    significant. The development of new and innovative products is
    important to Johnson   Johnson s success in all
    areas of its business. This also includes protecting the
    Company s portfolio of intellectual property. The
    competitive environment requires substantial investments in
    continuing research and in maintaining sales forces. In
    addition, the development and maintenance of customer demand for
    the Company s consumer products involves significant
    expenditures for advertising and promotion.

Research
    and Development  

Research activities represent a significant part of
    Johnson   Johnson s subsidiaries 
    businesses. Major research facilities are located not only in
    the United States, but also in Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China,
    France, Germany, India, Israel, Japan, the Netherlands,
    Singapore and the United Kingdom. The costs of worldwide
    Company-sponsored research activities relating to the
    development of new products, improvement of existing products,
    technical support of products and compliance with governmental
    regulations for the protection of consumers and patients
    (excluding purchased in-process research and development charges
    for fiscal 2008), amounted to $6.8 billion,
    $7.0 billion and $7.6 billion for fiscal years 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. These costs are charged directly to
    expense, or directly against income, in the year in which
    incurred.

Environment  

Johnson   Johnson s operating companies are
    subject to a variety of U.S. and international
    environmental protection measures. Johnson   Johnson
    believes that its operations comply in all material respects
    with applicable environmental laws and regulations.
    Johnson   Johnson s compliance with these
    requirements did not during the past year, and is not expected
    to, have a material effect upon its capital expenditures, cash
    flows, earnings or competitive position.

Regulation  

Most of Johnson   Johnson s businesses are
    subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the
    countries in which operations are conducted, and the general
    trend is toward increasingly stringent regulation. In the United
    States, the drug, device, diagnostics and cosmetic industries
    have long been subject to regulation by various federal and
    state agencies, primarily as to product safety, efficacy,
    manufacturing, advertising, labeling and safety reporting. The
    exercise of broad regulatory powers by the FDA continues to
    result in increases in the amounts of testing and documentation
    required for FDA clearance of new drugs and devices and a
    corresponding increase in the expense of product introduction.
    Similar trends are also evident in major markets outside of the
    United States.

The costs of human health care have been and continue to be a
    subject of study, investigation and regulation by governmental
    agencies and legislative bodies around the world. In the United
    States, attention has been focused on drug prices and profits
    and programs that encourage doctors to write prescriptions for
    particular drugs or recommend, use or purchase particular
    medical devices. Payers have become a more potent force in the
    market place and increased attention is being paid to drug and
    medical device pricing, appropriate drug and medical device
    utilization and the quality and costs of health care.

The regulatory agencies under whose purview Johnson  
    Johnson s operating companies operate have administrative
    powers that may subject those companies to such actions as
    product withdrawals, recalls, seizure of products and other
    civil and criminal sanctions. In some cases, Johnson  
    Johnson s operating companies may deem it advisable to
    initiate product recalls.

3

In addition, business practices in the health care industry have
    come under increased scrutiny, particularly in the United
    States, by government agencies and state attorneys general, and
    resulting investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of
    significant civil and criminal penalties.

Available
    Information  

The Company s main corporate website address is
     www.jnj.com.  Copies of Johnson   Johnson s
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and Current Reports on
     Form 8-K 
    filed or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission (the  SEC ), and any amendments to the
    foregoing, will be provided without charge to any shareholder
    submitting a written request to the Secretary at the principal
    executive offices of the Company or by calling
     1-800-950-5089. 
    All of the Company s SEC filings are also available on the
    Company s website at
     www.investor.jnj.com/governance/materials.cfm , as soon as
    reasonably practicable after having been electronically filed or
    furnished to the SEC. All SEC filings are also available at the
    SEC s website at  www.sec.gov . In addition, the
    written charters of the Audit Committee, the
    Compensation   Benefits Committee and the
    Nominating   Corporate Governance Committee of the
    Board of Directors and the Company s Principles of
    Corporate Governance, Policy on Business Conduct for employees
    and Code of Business Conduct   Ethics for Members of
    the Board of Directors and Executive Officers are available at
    the  www.investor.jnj.com/governance/materials.cfm  website
    address and will be provided without charge to any shareholder
    submitting a written request, as provided above.

Item 1A.    

RISK
    FACTORS  

Some important factors that could cause the Company s
    actual results to differ from the Company s expectations in
    any forward-looking statements in this Report are set forth in
    Exhibit 99 to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 1B.    

UNRESOLVED
    STAFF COMMENTS  

Not applicable.

Item 2.    

PROPERTIES  

Johnson   Johnson and its subsidiaries operate 139
    manufacturing facilities occupying approximately
    21.8 million square feet of floor space.

The manufacturing facilities are used by the industry segments
    of Johnson   Johnson s business approximately as
    follows:

Within the United States, 7 facilities are used by the Consumer
    segment, 11 by the Pharmaceutical segment and 36 by the Medical
    Devices and Diagnostics segment. Johnson  
    Johnson s manufacturing operations outside the United
    States are often conducted in facilities that serve more than
    one business segment.

4

The locations of the manufacturing facilities by major
    geographic areas of the world are as follows:

In addition to the manufacturing facilities discussed above,
    Johnson   Johnson and its subsidiaries maintain
    numerous office and warehouse facilities throughout the world.
    Research facilities are also discussed in Item 1 under
     Business   Research and Development. 

Johnson   Johnson and its subsidiaries generally seek
    to own their manufacturing facilities, although some,
    principally in locations abroad, are leased. Office and
    warehouse facilities are often leased.

Johnson   Johnson is committed to maintaining all of
    its properties in good operating condition and repair, and the
    facilities are well utilized.

Production at McNeil Consumer Healthcare s
    Fort Washington, Pennsylvania facility was suspended in the
    second quarter of 2010. Alternate supplies of products are
    planned to be available in the latter half of 2011. McNeil
    Consumer Healthcare submitted its Comprehensive Action Plan
    (CAP) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on
    July 15, 2010, which encompasses, among other items,
    training, resources and capital investments in quality and
    manufacturing systems across the McNeil organization. The
    Company continues to communicate with the FDA on remediation
    actions and is on schedule with the commitments made in the CAP.

For information regarding lease obligations, see Note 16
     Rental Expense and Lease Commitments  under
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  on
    page 59 of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to
    this Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    Segment information on additions to property, plant and
    equipment is contained in Note 18  Segments of
    Business and Geographic Areas  under  Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements  on page 61 of the
    Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 3.    

LEGAL
    PROCEEDINGS  

The information set forth in Note 21  Legal
    Proceedings  under  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements  on pages 64 through 71 of the Annual Report is
    incorporated herein by reference and filed as Exhibit 13 to
    this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

The Company or its subsidiaries are parties to a number of
    proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental
    Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as
    Superfund, and comparable state laws, in which the primary
    relief sought is the cost of past and future remediation. While
    it is not feasible to predict or determine the outcome of these
    proceedings, in the opinion of the Company, such proceedings
    would not have a material adverse effect on the results of
    operations, cash flows or financial position of the Company.

Item 4.    

(REMOVED
    AND RESERVED)  

EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

Listed below are the executive officers of Johnson  
    Johnson as of February 15, 2011, each of whom, unless
    otherwise indicated below, has been an employee of the Company
    or its affiliates and held the position indicated during the
    past five years. There are no family relationships between any
    of the executive officers, and there is no arrangement or
    understanding between any executive officer and any other person
    pursuant to which the executive officer was selected. At the
    annual meeting of the Board of Directors, the executive officers
    are elected by the Board to hold office for one year and until
    their respective successors are elected and qualified, or until
    earlier resignation or removal.

5

Information with regard to the directors of the Company,
    including information for William C. Weldon, is incorporated
    herein by reference to the material captioned  Election of
    Directors  in the Proxy Statement.

Name 

Age 

Position 

Dominic J. Caruso

53

Member, Executive Committee; Vice President, Finance; Chief
    Financial Officer(a)

Russell C. Deyo

61

Member, Executive Committee; Vice President, General Counsel(b)

Peter M. Fasolo

48

Member, Executive Committee, Vice President, Worldwide Human
    Resources(c)

Alex Gorsky

50

Vice Chairman, Executive Committee(d)

Sherilyn S. McCoy

52

Vice Chairman, Executive Committee(e)

William C. Weldon

62

Chairman, Board of Directors; Chairman, Executive Committee;
    Chief Executive Officer

(a)  

Mr. D. J. Caruso joined the Company in 1999 when the
    Company acquired Centocor, Inc. At the time of that acquisition,
    he had been Senior Vice President, Finance of Centocor.
    Mr. Caruso was named Vice President, Finance of
    Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company,
    in 2001 and Vice President, Group Finance of the Company s
    Medical Devices and Diagnostics Group in 2003. In 2005,
    Mr. Caruso was named Vice President of the Company s
    Group Finance organization. Mr. Caruso became a Member of
    the Executive Committee and Vice President, Finance and Chief
    Financial Officer in 2007. 

(b)  

Mr. R. C. Deyo joined the Company in 1985 and became
    Associate General Counsel in 1991. He became a Member of the
    Executive Committee and Vice President, Administration in 1996
    and Vice President, General Counsel in 2004. 

(c)  

Mr. P. M. Fasolo joined the Company in 2004 as Vice
    President, Worldwide Human Resources for Cordis Corporation, a
    subsidiary of the Company. He was then named Vice President,
    Global Talent Management for the Company. He left
    Johnson   Johnson in 2007 to join Kohlberg Kravis
    Roberts   Co. as Chief Talent Officer. Mr. Fasolo
    returned to the Company in September 2010 as the Vice President,
    Worldwide Human Resources, and in January 2011, he became a
    Member of the Executive Committee. 

(d)  

Mr. A. Gorsky joined the Company in 2008 as Company Group
    Chairman and Worldwide Franchise Chairman for Ethicon, Inc., a
    subsidiary of the Company. Previously, he was head of the North
    American pharmaceuticals business at Novartis Pharmaceuticals
    Corporation from 2004 to 2008. Prior to Novartis,
    Mr. Gorsky served in various management positions at
    Johnson   Johnson, including Company Group Chairman
    for the Company s pharmaceutical business in Europe, Middle
    East and Africa and President of Janssen Pharmaceutica Inc.
    (U.S.), a subsidiary of the Company. In January 2009, he became
    a Member of the Executive Committee and Worldwide Chairman,
    Surgical Care Group, and in September 2009, he became Worldwide
    Chairman, Medical Devices and Diagnostics Group. Mr. Gorsky
    was appointed as Vice Chairman, Executive Committee in January
    2011. 

(e)  

Ms. S. S. McCoy joined the Company in 1982 as an Associate
    Scientist in Research   Development for Personal
    Products Company, a subsidiary of the Company. She was named
    Vice President, Research   Development for the
    Personal Products Worldwide Division of McNEIL-PPC, Inc., a
    subsidiary of the Company, in 1995, and Vice President,
    Marketing for its Skin Care franchise in 2000. In 2002,
    Ms. McCoy became Global President for its Baby and Wound
    Care franchise. She was named Company Group Chairman and
    Worldwide Franchise Chairman of Ethicon, Inc., a subsidiary of
    the Company, in 2005. In 2008 she became a Member of the
    Executive Committee and Worldwide Chairman, Surgical Care Group.
    In 2009, she became Worldwide Chairman, Pharmaceuticals Group.
    Ms. McCoy was appointed as Vice Chairman, Executive
    Committee in January 2011. 

6

PART II  

Item 5.    

MARKET
    FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
    AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

As of February 15, 2011, there were 181,232 record holders
    of Common Stock of the Company. Additional information called
    for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to: the
    material under the captions  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition   Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   Share Repurchase and Dividends  on
    page 37;    Other Information   Common
    Stock Market Prices  on page 39; Note 17
     Common Stock, Stock Option Plans and Stock Compensation
    Agreements  under  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements  on pages 59 and 60; and  Shareholder
    Return Performance Graphs  on page 75 of the Annual
    Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K; 
    and Item 12  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
    Matters   Equity Compensation Plan Information 
    of this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities  

On July 9, 2007, the Company announced that its Board of
    Directors approved a stock repurchase program, authorizing the
    Company to buy back up to $10 billion of the Company s
    Common Stock. As of January 2, 2011, the current stock
    repurchase program has been completed. The Company repurchased
    an aggregate of 158.3 million shares of Johnson  
    Johnson Common Stock at a cost of $10 billion. The Company
    funded the share repurchase program through a combination of
    available cash and debt.

In addition, the Company has an annual program to repurchase
    shares for use in employee stock and incentive plans.

The following table provides information with respect to Common
    Stock purchases by the Company during the fiscal fourth quarter
    of 2010.

Item 6.    

SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the caption  Summary of
    Operations and Statistical Data
     2000-2010  
    on page 74 of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13
    to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

7

Item 7.    

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the narrative and tabular (but not the graphic)
    material under the caption  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition  on pages 30 through 40 of the Annual Report,
    filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 7A.    

QUANTITATIVE
    AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the caption
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
    Operations and Financial Condition   Liquidity and
    Capital Resources   Financing and Market Risk  on
    pages 36 and 37 and Note 1  Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies   Financial Instruments 
    under  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  on
    pages 46 and 47 of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13
    to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 8.    

FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements
    and Notes thereto and the material under the caption
     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm  on pages 41 through 72 of the Annual Report, filed as
    Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 9.    

CHANGES
    IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

Not applicable.

Item 9A.    

CONTROLS
    AND PROCEDURES  

Disclosure Controls and Procedures.   At the end
    of the period covered by this report, the Company evaluated the
    effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure
    controls and procedures. The Company s disclosure controls
    and procedures are designed to ensure that information required
    to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or
    submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
    summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
    SEC s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures
    include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to
    ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company
    in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act
    is accumulated and communicated to the Company s
    management, including its principal executive and principal
    financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as
    appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
    disclosure. William C. Weldon, Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer, and Dominic J. Caruso, Chief Financial Officer,
    reviewed and participated in this evaluation. Based on this
    evaluation, Messrs. Weldon and Caruso concluded that, as of
    the end of the period covered by this report, the Company s
    disclosure controls and procedures were effective.

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting.   Under Section 404 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management is required to assess the
    effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and
    report, based on that assessment, whether the Company s
    internal control over financial reporting is effective.

Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and
    maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
    The Company s internal control over financial reporting is
    designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability
    of the Company s financial reporting and the preparation of
    external financial statements in accordance with generally
    accepted accounting principles.

Internal control over financial reporting, no matter how well
    designed, has inherent limitations. Therefore, internal control
    over financial reporting determined to be effective can provide
    only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement
    preparation and may not prevent or detect all misstatements.
    Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
    future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

8

The Company s management has assessed the effectiveness of
    the Company s internal control over financial reporting as
    of January 2, 2011. In making this assessment, the Company
    used the criteria established by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in
     Internal Control-Integrated Framework.  These
    criteria are in the areas of control environment, risk
    assessment, control activities, information and communication,
    and monitoring. The Company s assessment included extensive
    documenting, evaluating and testing the design and operating
    effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting.

Based on the Company s processes and assessment, as
    described above, management has concluded that, as of
    January 2, 2011, the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting was effective.

The effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting as of January 2, 2011 has been audited
    by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, as stated in their report, which appears in the
     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm  on page 72 of the Annual Report, which is
    incorporated herein by reference and filed as Exhibit 13 to
    this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting.   During the fiscal quarter ended
    January 2, 2011, there were no changes in the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting
    identified in connection with the evaluation required under
     Rules 13a-15 
    and  15d-15 
    under the Exchange Act that have materially affected, or are
    reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s
    internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.    

OTHER
    INFORMATION  

Not applicable.

PART III  

Item 10.    

DIRECTORS,
    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the captions  Election
    of Directors  and  Stock Ownership and Section 16
    Compliance   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance  and the discussion of the Audit
    Committee under the caption  Corporate
    Governance   Standing Board Committees  in the
    Proxy Statement; and the material under the caption
     Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I
    of this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

The Company s Policy on Business Conduct, which covers all
    employees (including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief
    Financial Officer and Controller), meets the requirements of the
    SEC rules promulgated under Section 406 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Policy on Business Conduct is
    available on the Company s website at
     www.investor.jnj.com/governance/policies.cfm , and copies
    are available to shareholders without charge upon written
    request to the Secretary at the Company s principal
    executive offices. Any substantive amendment to the Policy on
    Business Conduct or any waiver of the Policy granted to the
    Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or the
    Controller will be posted on the Company s website at
      www.investor.jnj.com/governance.cfm 
     within five business days (and retained on the website for
    at least one year).

In addition, the Company has adopted a Code of Business
    Conduct   Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors
    and Executive Officers. The Code of Business Conduct  
    Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and Executive
    Officers is available on the Company s website at
     www.investor.jnj.com/governance/policies.cfm , and copies
    are available to shareholders without charge upon written
    request to the Secretary at the Company s principal
    executive offices. Any substantive amendment to the Code or any
    waiver of the Code granted to any member of the Board of
    Directors or any executive officer will be posted on the
    Company s website at  www.investor.jnj.com/governance.cfm
     within five business days (and retained on the website for
    at least one year).

Item 11.    

EXECUTIVE
    COMPENSATION  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the captions
     Compensation Discussion and Analysis, 
     Executive and Director Compensation  and
     Compensation Committee Report  in the Proxy Statement.

9

The material incorporated herein by reference to the material
    under the caption  Compensation Committee Report  in
    the Proxy Statement shall be deemed furnished, and not filed, in
    this Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any
    filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as a result of this
    furnishing, except to the extent that the Registrant
    specifically incorporates it by reference.

Item 12.    

SECURITY
    OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

Additional information called for by this item is incorporated
    herein by reference to the material under the captions
     Stock Ownership and Section 16 Compliance  in
    the Proxy Statement and Note 17  Common Stock, Stock
    Option Plans and Stock Compensation Agreements  under
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  on pages
    59 and 60 of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information  

The following table provides certain information as of
    January 2, 2011 concerning the shares of the Company s
    Common Stock that may be issued under existing equity
    compensation plans.

(1)  

Included in this category are the following equity compensation
    plans, which have been approved by the Company s
    shareholders: 2000 Stock Option Plan and 2005 Long-Term
    Incentive Plan.

(2)  

Included in this category are 216,584 shares of Common
    Stock of the Company issuable under various equity compensation
    plans which were assumed by the Company upon acquisition of the
    following companies: ALZA Corporation, Scios Inc., and Inverness
    Medical Technology, Inc. 122,629 of the shares listed as
    issuable in this category were issued under plans that were
    approved by the shareholders of these companies prior to the
    acquisition and the assumption of these plans by the Company. At
    the time of each of these acquisitions, options to acquire
    equity of the acquired company were replaced by options to
    acquire the Common Stock of the Company. No stock options or
    equity awards of any type have been made under any of these
    plans since the assumption of these plans by the Company, and no
    further stock options or other equity awards of any type will be
    made under any of these plans in the future.

The shares that are included in this column that were issued
    under plans not approved by shareholders of the applicable
    acquired company are: 93,955 shares issuable under the 1996
    Scios Non-Officer Stock Option Plan.

(3)  

Also included in this category are 42,750 shares of Common
    Stock of the Company issuable upon the exercise of outstanding
    stock options under the Company s Stock Option Plan for
    Non-Employee Directors. All options outstanding under this plan
    have fully vested with an expiration period of ten years from
    the date of grant.

(4)  

This column excludes shares reflected under the column
     Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of
    Outstanding Options and Rights. 

Item 13.    

CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
    INDEPENDENCE  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the captions
     Transactions with Related Persons  and
     Corporate Governance   Director
    Independence  in the Proxy Statement.

10

Item 14.    

PRINCIPAL
    ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the caption
     Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm  in the Proxy Statement.

PART IV  

Item 15.    

EXHIBITS AND
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this
    report:

1.  Financial Statements 

The following Audited Consolidated Financial Statements and
    Notes thereto and the material under the caption  Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  on pages 41
    through 72 of the Annual Report are incorporated herein by
    reference and filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K: 

Consolidated Balance Sheets at end of Fiscal Years 2010 and 2009

Consolidated Statements of Earnings for Fiscal Years 2010, 2009
    and 2008

Consolidated Statements of Equity for Fiscal Years 2010, 2009
    and 2008

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for Fiscal Years 2010,
    2009 and 2008

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

2.  Financial Statement Schedules 

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because they
    are not required or are not applicable.

3.  Exhibits Required to be Filed by Item 60l
    of
     Regulation S-K  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the Exhibit Index in this report.

11

Schedule II

Schedule Of Valuation And Qualifying Accounts Disclosure

JOHNSON  
    JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES 
     
     SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND
    QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
       
    Fiscal Years Ended January 2, 2011, January 3, 2010
    and December 28, 2008 
    (Dollars in Millions)  

12

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

Date: February 15, 2011

JOHNSON   JOHNSON

(Registrant)

By 

/s/   W.
    C. Weldon 

W. C. Weldon, Chairman, Board of Directors,

and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/   W.
    C. Weldon 

W.
    C. Weldon

Chairman, Board of Directors, 
    Chief Executive Officer, and Director (Principal Executive
    Officer)

February 15, 2011

/s/   D.
    J. Caruso 

D.
    J. Caruso

Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

February 15, 2011

/s/   S.
    J. Cosgrove 

S.
    J. Cosgrove

Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)

February 15, 2011

/s/   M.
    S. Coleman 

M.
    S. Coleman

Director

February 15, 2011

/s/   J.
    G. Cullen 

J.
    G. Cullen

Director

February 15, 2011

/s/   I.
    E. L. Davis 

I.
    E. L. Davis

Director

February 15, 2011

/s/   M.
    M. E. Johns 

M.
    M. E. Johns

Director

February 15, 2011

13

14

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON 
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE  

To the Board of Directors of

Johnson   Johnson:

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements and of the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
    referred to in our report dated February 24, 2011 appearing
    in the 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders of Johnson  
    Johnson (which report and consolidated financial statements are
    incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K) 
    also included an audit of the financial statement schedule
    listed in Item 15(a)2 of this
     Form 10-K. 
    In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents
    fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
    therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated
    financial statements.

/s/   PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP 

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

February 24, 2011

15

EXHIBIT INDEX  

Reg. S-K 

Exhibit Table 

Description 

Item No. 

of Exhibit 

3

(i)(a)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation dated April 26,
    1990   Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
    3(a) of the Registrant s Form 10-K Annual Report for the
    year ended December 30, 1990.

3

(i)(b)

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company dated May 20, 1992  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(a) of the
    Registrant s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
    January 3, 1993.

3

(i)(c)

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company dated May 21, 1996  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(a)(iii) of the
    Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 29, 1996.

3

(i)(d)

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company effective May 22, 2001  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3 of the
    Registrant s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter
    ended July 1, 2001.

3

(i)(e)

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company effective April 27,
    2006   Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
    3(i) of the Registrant s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
    quarter ended April 2, 2006.

3

(ii)

By-Laws of the Company, as amended effective February 9,
    2009   Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1
    the Registrant s Form 8-K Current Report filed February 13,
    2009.

4

(a)

Upon the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
    Registrant will furnish a copy of all instruments defining the
    rights of holders of long-term debt of the Registrant.

10

(a)

Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) of the
    Registrant s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
    December 29, 1996.*

10

(b)

2000 Stock Option Plan (as amended)   Incorporated
    herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) of the Registrant s
    Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 29, 2002.*

10

(c)

2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan   Incorporated herein by
    reference to Exhibit 4 of the Registrant s
     S-8 
    Registration Statement filed with the Commission on May 10, 2005
    (file no. 333-124785).*

10

(d)

Form of Stock Option Certificate and Restricted Shares to
    Non-Employee Directors Certificate under the 2005 Long-Term
    Incentive Plan   Incorporated herein by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant s Form 8-K Current Report
    filed August 25, 2005.*

10

(e)

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Certificate under the 2005
    Long-Term Incentive
     Plan   
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
    Registrant s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter
    ended October 2, 2005.*

10

(f)

Executive Bonus Plan   Incorporated herein by
    reference to Exhibit 4 of the Registrant s
     Form S-8 
    Registration Statement filed with the Commission on November 8,
    2005 (file no. 333-129542).*

10

(g)

Executive Incentive Plan (as amended)   Incorporated
    herein by reference to Exhibit 10(f) of the Registrant s
    Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2000.*

10

(h)

Domestic Deferred Compensation (Certificate of Extra
    Compensation) Plan   Incorporated herein by reference
    to Exhibit 10(g) of the Registrant s Form 10-K Annual
    Report for the year ended December 28, 2003.*

10

(i)

Amendments to the Certificate of Extra Compensation Plan
    effective as of January 1, 2009   Incorporated herein
    by reference to Exhibit 10(j) of the Registrant s Form 10-K
    Annual Report for the year ended December 28, 2008.*

10

(j)

2009 Certificates of Long-Term Performance Plan  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
    Registrant s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter
    ended September 27, 2009.*

10

(k)

Deferred Fee Plan Directors (as amended)  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(h) of the
    Registrant s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
    January 2, 2005.*

10

(l)

Amendments to the Deferred Fee Plan for Directors effective as
    of January 1, 2009   Incorporated herein by reference
    to Exhibit 10(l) of the Registrant s Form 10-K Annual
    Report for the year ended December 28, 2008.*

10

(m)

Executive Income Deferral Plan (as amended)  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the
    Registrant s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
    December 28, 2003.*

16

Reg. S-K 

Exhibit Table 

Description 

Item No. 

of Exhibit 

10

(n)

Amendments to the Executive Income Deferral Plan effective as of
    January 1, 2009   Incorporated herein by reference to
    Exhibit 10(n) of the Registrant s Form 10-K Annual Report
    for the year ended December 28, 2008.*

10

(o)

Excess Savings Plan   Incorporated herein by reference
    to Exhibit 10(j) of the Registrant s Form 10-K Annual
    Report for the year ended December 29, 1996.*

10

(p)

Amendments to the Johnson   Johnson Excess Savings Plan
    effective as of January 1, 2009   Incorporated herein
    by reference to Exhibit 10(p) of the Registrant s Form 10-K
    Annual Report for the year ended December 28, 2008.*

10

(q)

Excess Benefit Plan (Supplemental Retirement Plan)  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(h) of the
    Registrant s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
    January 3, 1993.*

10

(r)

Amendments to the Excess Benefit Plan of Johnson   Johnson
    and Affiliated Companies effective as of January 1,
    2009   Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
    10(r) of the Registrant s Form 10-K Annual Report for
    the year ended December 28, 2008.*

10

(s)

Executive Life Insurance Plan   Incorporated herein by
    reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the Registrant s Form 10-K
    Annual Report for the year ended January 3, 1993.*

10

(t)

Stock Option Gain Deferral Plan   Incorporated herein
    by reference to Exhibit 10(m) of the Registrant s Form 10-K
    Annual Report for the year ended January 2, 2000.*

10

(u)

Estate Preservation Plan   Incorporated herein by
    reference to Exhibit 10(n) of the Registrant s Form 10-K
    Annual Report for the year ended January 2, 2000.*

10

(v)

Summary of Compensation Arrangements for Named Executive
    Officers and Directors   Filed with this document.*

12

Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed
    Charges   Filed with this document.

13

Pages 30 through 75 of the Company s Annual
    Report to Shareholders for fiscal year 2010 (only those portions
    of the Annual Report incorporated by reference in this report
    are deemed  filed )   Filed with this
    document.

21

Subsidiaries   Filed with this document.

23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm   Filed with this document.

31

(a)

Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act   Filed with this document.

31

(b)

Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act   Filed with this document.

32

(a)

Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act   Furnished with this
    document.

32

(b)

Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act   Furnished with this
    document.

99

Cautionary Statement Pursuant to Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995    Safe Harbor  for
    Forward-Looking Statements   Filed with this document.

101

XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) The following
    materials from Johnson   Johnson s Annual Report on
    Form 10-K for the fiscal year-ended January 2, 2011, formatted
    in Extensive Business Reporting Language (XBRL): (i)
    Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) Consolidated Statements of
    Earnings, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Equity, (iv)
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, (v) Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements, and (vi)
    Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.

*  

Management contract or compensatory plan. 

A copy of any of the Exhibits listed above will be provided
    without charge to any shareholder submitting a written request
    specifying the desired exhibit(s) to the Secretary at the
    principal executive offices of the Company.

17

<EX-10.V>
 2
 y86310kexv10wv.htm
 EX-10.V

exv10wv 

EXHIBIT 10(v)  

Summary
    of Compensation Arrangements for 
    Named Executive Officers and Directors  

Compensation
    Arrangements for Named Executive Officers  

Following is a description of the compensation arrangements that
    have been approved by the Compensation   Benefits
    Committee of the Board of Directors of Johnson  
    Johnson (the  Compensation Committee ) on
    January 10, 2011 for the Company s Chief Executive
    Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the other three most highly
    compensated executive officers in 2010 (the  Named
    Executive Officers ).

Annual
    Base Salary:   

The Compensation Committee has approved the following base
    salaries for 2011 for the Named Executive Officers:

Annual
    Performance Bonus:   

The Compensation Committee has approved the following annual
    performance bonus payments under the Company s Executive
    Incentive Plan for performance in 2010 (paid in the form of 85%
    cash and 15% Company Common Stock as determined by the
    Compensation Committee):

Stock
    Option and Restricted Share Unit Grants:   

The Compensation Committee has approved the following stock
    option and Restricted Share Unit ( RSU ) grants under
    the Company s 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  LTI
    Plan ). The stock options were granted at an exercise price
    of $62.20, at the  fair market value  (calculated as
    the average of the high and low prices of the Company s
    Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange) on January 10,
    2011. The options will become exercisable on January 11,
    2014 and expire on January 10, 2021. The RSUs will vest on
    January 10, 2014, upon which, the holder, if still employed
    by the Company on such date, will receive one share of the
    Company s Common Stock for each RSU. Due to her intention
    to retire, Ms. Goggins did not receive stock options or
    RSUs in 2011.

Non-Equity
    Incentive Plan Awards:   

The Compensation Committee has approved the following non-equity
    incentive plan awards in recognition of performance during 2010
    under the Company s Certificates of Long-Term Performance
    ( CLP ) program. Vested awards are not paid out until
    the earlier of ten years from the date of grant or retirement or
    other termination of employment. As of the grant date, the
    defined present value per CLP was $5.03. The CLP unit value will
    vary over time based on the performance of the Company. Due to
    her intention to retire, Ms. Goggins did not receive CLPs
    in 2011.

Equity
    Compensation for Non-Employee Directors  

Each Non-Employee Director receives non-retainer equity
    compensation in the first quarter of each year under the LTI
    Plan in the form of shares of restricted Common Stock having a
    fair market value of $100,000 on the grant date. Accordingly,
    each Non-Employee Director was granted 1,650 shares of
    restricted Common Stock under the LTI Plan on February 15,
    2011. The restricted shares will become freely transferable on
    February 15, 2014.

</EX-10.V>

<EX-12>
 3
 y86310kexv12.htm
 EX-12

exv12 

EXHIBIT 12  

JOHNSON  
    JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES 

STATEMENT
    OF COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED
    CHARGES (1) 

(Dollars
    in Millions)  

(1)   

The ratio of earnings to fixed charges is computed by dividing
    the sum of earnings before provision for taxes on income and
    fixed charges by fixed charges. Fixed charges represent interest
    expense (before interest is capitalized), amortization of debt
    discount and an appropriate interest factor on operating leases.

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 4
 y86310kexv13.htm
 EX-13

exv13 

Table of
    Contents  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 

30

Organization and Business Segments

30

Results of Operations

31

Analysis of Sales by Business Segments

33

Analysis of Consolidated Earnings Before Provision for Taxes on
    Income

36

Liquidity and Capital Resources

37

Other Information

40

Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results

AUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

41

Consolidated Balance Sheets

42

Consolidated Statements of Earnings

43

Consolidated Statements of Equity

44

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

45

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

72

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

73

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting

SUPPORTING SCHEDULES 

74

Summary of Operations and Statistical Data 2000   2010

75

Shareholder Return Performance Graphs

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition  

Organization
    and Business Segments  

Description
    of the Company and Business Segments   

Johnson   Johnson and its subsidiaries (the
     Company ) have approximately 114,000 employees
    worldwide engaged in the research and development, manufacture
    and sale of a broad range of products in the health care field.
    The Company conducts business in virtually all countries of the
    world with the primary focus on products related to human health
    and well-being.

The Company is organized into three business segments: Consumer,
    Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics. The Consumer
    segment includes a broad range of products used in the baby
    care, skin care, oral care, wound care and women s health
    care fields, as well as nutritional and
     over-the-counter 
    pharmaceutical products and wellness and prevention platforms.
    These products are marketed to the general public and sold both
    to retail outlets and distributors throughout the world. The
    Pharmaceutical segment includes products in the following areas:
    anti-infective, antipsychotic, contraceptive, dermatology,
    gastrointestinal, hematology, immunology, neurology, oncology,
    pain management and virology. These products are distributed
    directly to retailers, wholesalers and health care professionals
    for prescription use. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics
    segment includes a broad range of products distributed to
    wholesalers, hospitals and retailers used principally in the
    professional fields by physicians, nurses, therapists,
    hospitals, diagnostic laboratories and clinics. These products
    include Biosense Webster s electrophysiology products;
    Cordis  circulatory disease management products;
    DePuy s orthopaedic joint reconstruction, spinal care,
    neurological and sports medicine products; Ethicon s
    surgical care, aesthetics and women s health products;
    Ethicon Endo-Surgery s minimally invasive surgical products
    and advanced sterilization products; LifeScan s blood
    glucose monitoring and insulin delivery products; Ortho-Clinical
    Diagnostics  professional diagnostic products and
    Vistakon s disposable contact lenses.

The Company s structure is based upon the principle of
    decentralized management. The Executive Committee of
    Johnson   Johnson is the principal management group
    responsible for the operations and allocation of the resources
    of the Company. This Committee oversees and coordinates the
    activities of the Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices
    and Diagnostics business segments.

In all of its product lines, the Company competes with companies
    both local and global, located throughout the world. Competition
    exists in all product lines without regard to the number and
    size of the competing companies involved. Competition in
    research, involving the development and the improvement of new
    and existing products and processes, is particularly
    significant. The development of new and innovative products is
    important to the Company s success in all areas of its
    business. This also includes protecting the Company s
    portfolio of intellectual property. The competitive environment
    requires substantial investments in continuing research and in
    maintaining sales forces. In addition, the development and
    maintenance of customer demand for the Company s consumer
    products involves significant expenditures for advertising and
    promotion.

Management s
    Objectives   

The Company manages within a strategic framework aimed at
    achieving sustainable growth. To accomplish this, the
    Company s management operates the business consistent with
    certain strategic principles that have proven successful over
    time. To this end, the Company participates in growth areas in
    human health care and is committed to attaining leadership
    positions in these growth areas through the development of high
    quality, innovative products and services. New products
    introduced within the past five years accounted for
    approximately 25% of 2010 sales. In 2010, $6.8 billion, or
    11.1% of sales, was invested in research and development. This
    investment reflects management s commitment to the
    importance of ongoing development of new and differentiated
    products and services to sustain long-term growth.

With more than 250 operating companies located in 60 countries,
    the Company views its principle of decentralized management as
    an asset and fundamental to the success of a broadly based
    business. It also fosters an entrepreneurial spirit, combining
    the extensive resources of a large organization with the ability
    to anticipate and react quickly to local market changes and
    challenges.

The Company is committed to developing global business leaders
    who can drive growth objectives. Businesses are managed for the
    long-term in order to sustain leadership positions and achieve
    growth that provides an enduring source of value to our
    shareholders.

Our Credo unifies the management team and the Company s
    dedicated employees in achieving these objectives, and provides
    a common set of values that serve as a constant reminder of the
    Company s responsibilities to its customers, employees,
    communities and shareholders. The Company believes that these
    basic principles, along with its overall mission of improving
    the quality of life for people everywhere, will enable
    Johnson   Johnson to continue to be among the leaders
    in the health care industry.

Results
    of Operations  

Analysis
    of Consolidated Sales   

In 2010, worldwide sales decreased 0.5% to $61.6 billion,
    compared to a decrease of 2.9% in 2009 and an increase of 4.3%
    in 2008. These sales changes consisted of the following:

Sales by U.S. companies were $29.5 billion in 2010,
    $30.9 billion in 2009 and $32.3 billion in 2008. This
    represents a decrease of 4.7% in 2010, a decrease of 4.4% in
    2009 and a decrease of 0.4% in 2008. Sales by international
    companies were $32.1 billion in 2010, $31.0 billion in
    2009 and $31.4 billion in 2008. This represents an increase
    of 3.6% in 2010, a decrease of 1.4% in 2009 and an increase of
    9.7% in 2008, respectively.

The five-year compound annual
    growth rates for worldwide, U.S. and international sales
    were 4.0%, 0.7% and 7.7%, respectively. The ten-year compound
    annual growth rates for worldwide, U.S. and international
    sales were 7.8%, 5.5% and 10.5%, respectively.

Sales in Europe experienced a
    decline of 2.7% including operational growth of 0.5% and a
    negative impact from currency of 3.2%. Sales in the Western
    Hemisphere (excluding the U.S.) achieved growth of 7.6%
    including an operational decline of 0.5% and an increase of 8.1%
    related to the positive impact of currency. Sales in the
     Asia-Pacific, 
    Africa region achieved growth of 11.7%, including operational
    growth of 5.5% and an increase of 6.2% related to the positive
    impact of currency.

In 2010, 2009 and 2008, the
    Company did not have a customer that represented 10% or more of
    total consolidated revenues.

2009 results benefited from
    the inclusion of a 53rd week. (See Note 1 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for Annual Closing Date
    details). The Company estimated that the fiscal year 2009 growth
    rate was enhanced by approximately 0.5% due to the
    53rd week.

U.S. Health Care
    Reform  

The Patient Protection and
    Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education
    Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law during March
    2010. The newly enacted health care reform legislation included
    an increase in the minimum Medicaid rebate rate from 15.1% to
    23.1% and also extended the rebate to drugs provided through
    Medicaid managed care organizations. The 2010 impact was an
    increase in sales rebates reducing sales revenue by
    approximately $400 million. The 2011 full year impact to
    sales of the legislation is estimated to be $400  
    $500 million.

Beginning in 2011, companies that
    sell branded prescription drugs to specified
    U.S. Government programs will pay an annual non-tax
    deductible fee based on an allocation of the company s
    market share of total branded prescription drug sales from the
    prior year. The estimate of the impact on the Company in 2011 is
    $150   $200 million. Beginning in 2013, the
    Company will be required to pay a tax deductible 2.3% excise tax
    imposed on the sale of certain medical devices.

Analysis
    of Sales by Business Segments  

Consumer
    Segment   

Consumer segment sales in 2010
    were $14.6 billion, a decrease of 7.7% from 2009, with 8.9%
    of this change due to an operational decline partially offset by
    positive currency impact of 1.2%. U.S. Consumer segment
    sales were $5.5 billion, a decrease of 19.3%. International
    sales were $9.1 billion, an increase of 1.2%, with an
    operational decline of 1.0% offset by positive currency impact
    of 2.2%.

The
     Over-the-Counter 
    (OTC) Pharmaceuticals and Nutritionals franchise sales were
    $4.5 billion, a decrease of 19.2% from 2009. Sales were
    negatively impacted by the voluntary recalls of certain OTC
    products announced earlier in the year and suspension of
    production at McNeil Consumer Healthcare s
    Fort Washington, Pennsylvania facility. McNeil s
    recalls of products manufactured at both Las Piedras and
    Fort Washington facilities impacted the total year sales by
    approximately $900 million.

Alternate supplies of products are
    planned to be available in the latter half of 2011. McNeil
    Consumer Healthcare submitted its Comprehensive Action Plan
    (CAP) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on
    July 15, 2010, which encompasses, among other items,
    training, resources and capital investments in quality and
    manufacturing systems across the McNeil organization. The

Major
    Consumer Franchise Sales:  

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
    CONDITION

31

Company continues to communicate with the FDA on remediation
    actions and is on schedule with the commitments made in the CAP.

The Skin Care franchise sales were $3.5 billion, a decline
    of 0.4% compared to the prior year due in part to a temporary
    reduction in shipments of Neutrogena products due to product
    supply constraints partially offset by growth in the
    AVEENO   ,

    JOHNSON s   

    Adult, LE PETIT
    MARSEILLAIS   

    and
    DABAO   

    skin care lines. The Baby Care franchise sales grew by 4.4% to
    $2.2 billion in 2010, primarily due to growth in the Asia
    Pacific region partially offset by the impact of the economic
    situation in Venezuela. The Women s Health franchise sales
    were $1.8 billion, a decrease of 2.7% primarily due to
    increased competitive pressures and the impact of the economic
    situation in Venezuela. The Oral Care franchise sales were
    $1.5 billion, a decrease of 2.7% primarily due to the
    divestiture of the
    EFFERDENT   /Effergrip   

    brands in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2009 and lower sales of
    mouth rinses and toothbrushes in the United
    States.   The Wound
    Care/Other franchise sales were $1.0 billion, a decrease of
    10.4% primarily due to private label competition and slower
    category growth.

Consumer segment sales in 2009 were $15.8 billion, a
    decrease of 1.6% from 2008, with 2.0% of this change due to
    operational growth and negative currency impact of 3.6%.
    U.S. Consumer segment sales were $6.8 billion, a
    decrease of 1.4%. International sales were $9.0 billion, a
    decrease of 1.7%, with growth of 4.7% achieved by operations and
    a decrease of 6.4% resulting from the negative impact of
    currency fluctuations.

Pharmaceutical
    Segment   

Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2010 were $22.4 billion, a
    decrease of 0.6% from 2009, with an operational decline of 1.0%
    and a positive currency impact of 0.4%. U.S. sales were
    $12.5 billion, a decrease of 4.0%. International sales were
    $9.9 billion, an increase of 4.2%, which included 3.4%
    operational growth and a positive currency impact of 0.8%.
    Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2010 were reduced by
    approximately $400 million as a result of U.S. health
    care reform legislation.

REMICADE   

    (infliximab), a biologic approved for the treatment of a number
    of immune mediated inflammatory diseases, achieved sales of
    $4.6 billion in 2010, with growth of 7.1% over the prior
    year. U.S. export sales grew 24.3% versus the prior year
    primarily driven by market growth.
    REMICADE   

    is competing in a market that is experiencing increased
    competition due to new entrants, including the successful
    launches of
    STELARA   

    (ustekinumab) and
    SIMPONI   

    (golimumab) and the expansion of indications for existing
    competitors.

PROCRIT   

    (Epoetin alfa) and
    EPREX   

    (Epoetin alfa) had combined sales of $1.9 billion in 2010,
    a decline of 13.9% compared to the prior year. Lower sales of
    PROCRIT   

    and
    EPREX   

    were primarily due to the declining markets for Erythropoiesis
    Stimulating Agents (ESAs).
    EPREX   

    also experienced increased competition.

RISPERDAL   

    CONSTA   

    (risperidone), a long-acting injectable antipsychotic, achieved
    sales of $1.5 billion in 2010, representing an increase of
    5.3% as compared to the prior year. Solid growth of 16.4% was
    achieved outside the U.S., with very strong growth in Japan. In
    the U.S. the successful launch of
    INVEGA   

    SUSTENNA  tm  

    (paliperidone palmitate) also increased the growth of the
    long-acting injectable antipsychotic market.

LEVAQUIN   

    (levofloxacin)/FLOXIN   

    (ofloxacin) sales were $1.4 billion, a decline of 12.5%
    versus the prior year primarily due to the decline in the market
    and increased penetration of generics. Market exclusivity in the
    U.S. expires in June 2011. The expiration of a
    product s market exclusivity is likely to result in a
    significant reduction in sales.

CONCERTA   

    (methylphenidate HCl), a product for the treatment of attention
    deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), achieved sales of
    $1.3 billion in 2010, a decrease of 0.5% compared to the
    prior year. Sales growth in the U.S. was impacted by lower
    market share and the health care reform legislation enacted in
    March 2010 resulting from changes to rebates to Medicaid managed
    care organizations. On November 1, 2010, the Company
    entered into a U.S. supply and distribution agreement with
    Watson Laboratories, Inc. to distribute an authorized generic
    version of
    CONCERTA   

    beginning May 1, 2011. This authorized generic launch is
    likely to result in a significant reduction in
    CONCERTA   sales.

VELCADE   

    (bortezomib), a product for the treatment for multiple myeloma,
    for which the Company has commercial rights in Europe and the
    rest of the world outside the U.S., achieved sales of
    $1.1 billion in 2010, representing an increase of 15.8% as
    compared to the prior year.

ACIPHEX   /PARIET   

    (rabeprazole sodium) sales were $1.0 billion, a decline of
    8.2% versus the prior year due to increased competition from
    generics in the category.

TOPAMAX   

    (topiramate), experienced a sales decline of 53.3% compared to
    the prior year. Market exclusivity for
    TOPAMAX   

    expired in March 2009 in the U.S. and in September 2009 in
    most European countries. Multiple generics have entered the
    market. Loss of market exclusivity for the
    TOPAMAX   

    patent has resulted in the significant reduction of sales in the
    U.S. and Europe.

In 2010, Other Pharmaceutical sales were $9.1 billion,
    representing a growth of 6.6% over the prior year. Contributors
    to the increase were sales of
    STELARA   

    (ustekinumab),
    SIMPONI   

    (golimumab),

Major
    Pharmaceutical Product Revenues*:  

*  
     
    Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current
    presentation.

PREZISTA   

    (darunavir),
    INTELENCE   

    (etravirine),
    NUCYNTA   

    (tapentadol) and INVEGA
    SUSTENNA   

    (paliperidone palmitate). This growth was partially offset by
    lower sales of
    DURAGESIC   /Fentanyl

    Transdermal (fentanyl transdermal system) and
    RISPERDAL   /risperidone

    oral due to continued generic competition.

During 2010, several new compounds were filed for regulatory
    approval. These included abiraterone acetate, an investigational
    agent for the treatment of metastatic, advanced prostate cancer
    which was granted priority review in the U.S. and accepted
    for accelerated assessment in Europe, and telaprevir, developed
    in collaboration with Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, for
    hepatitis C which was filed and accepted for accelerated
    assessment in Europe. TMC 278 (rilpivirine) for HIV in
    treatment-na ve patients was filed in both the
    U.S. and Europe. Rivaroxaban, an anti-coagulant
    co-developed with Bayer HealthCare, has been filed in the
    U.S. for the prevention of stroke in patients with atrial
    fibrulation. The Company also responded to the FDA complete
    response letter for its review of the rivaroxaban filing for
    preventing deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism following
    total knee and hip replacement surgery.

Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2009 were $22.5 billion, a
    decrease of 8.3% from 2008, with an operational decline of 6.1%
    and the remaining 2.2% due to the negative impact of currency
    fluctuations. U.S. sales were $13.0 billion, a
    decrease of 12.1%. International sales were $9.5 billion, a
    decrease of 2.6%, which included 3.0% operational growth and a
    decrease of 5.6% resulting from the negative impact of currency
    fluctuations.

Medical
    Devices and Diagnostics Segment   

The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment achieved sales of
    $24.6 billion in 2010, representing an increase of 4.4%
    over the prior year, with operational growth of 3.4% and a
    positive currency impact of 1.0%. U.S. sales were
    $11.4 billion, an increase of 3.6% over the prior year.
    International sales were $13.2 billion, an increase of 5.0%
    over the prior year, with growth of 3.0% from operations and a
    positive currency impact of 2.0%.

The DePuy franchise achieved sales of $5.6 billion in 2010,
    a 4.0% increase over the prior year. This growth was primarily
    due to an increase in the knee and Mitek sports medicine product
    lines, and outside the U.S., growth of the hip product line.
    Pressure on pricing continued as a result of economic trends,
    however new product launches and incremental sales of newly
    acquired products from Micrus Endovascular Corporation have
    mitigated some of the impact. In August 2010, DePuy
    Orthopaedics, Inc. (DePuy) announced a worldwide voluntary
    recall of its
    ASR  tm  

    XL Acetabular System and DePuy
    ASR  tm  

    Hip Resurfacing System used in hip replacement surgery,
    principally sold between 2003 and 2009.

The Ethicon Endo-Surgery franchise achieved sales of
    $4.8 billion in 2010, a 5.9% increase over the prior year.
    This was attributable to growth in the endoscopy, Advanced
    Sterilization,
    HARMONIC   ,

    SurgRx and
    ENSEAL   

    product lines. The growth was partially offset by the
    divestiture of the Breast Care business in the third quarter of
    2010.

The Ethicon
    franchise achieved sales of $4.5 billion in 2010, a 9.2%
    increase over the prior year. The growth was attributable to
    sales of newly acquired products from Acclarent, Inc. in
    addition to growth in the sutures, Mentor, biosurgical,
    Women s Health and Urology, and mesh product lines.

The Vision Care franchise achieved
    sales   of
    $2.7 billion in 2010, a 6.9%
    increase   over
    prior year primarily driven by
     1-DAY 
    ACUVUE   

    TruEye  tm  ,

    ACUVUE   

    OASYS  tm  

    for Astigmatism, and
     1-DAY  ACUVUE

MOIST   ,

    partially offset by lower sales of reusable lenses. During 2010,
    the Company and Novartis AG, CIBAVISION Corporation and CIBA
    VISION AG agreed to resolve all pending patent litigation on a
    worldwide basis enabling the Company to reenter the markets in
    France and the Netherlands.

Sales in the Cordis franchise were $2.6 billion, a decline
    of 4.7% versus the prior year. The decline reflects lower sales
    of the
    CYPHER   

    Sirolimus-eluting Coronary Stent due to increased global
    competition. The decline was partially offset by strong growth
    of the Biosense Webster business.

Sales in the Diabetes Care franchise were $2.5 billion in
    2010, a 1.2% increase over the prior year. This was primarily
    attributable to growth in the U.S. and Asia Pacific region
    partially offset by a sales decline in Europe.

The Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics franchise achieved sales of
    $2.1 billion in 2010, a 4.6% increase over the prior year.
    Growth was primarily attributable to sales of the
    VITROS   

    5600 and 3600 analyzers partially offset by lower sales in donor
    screening primarily due to more selective screening for Chagas
    testing in the U.S.

The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment achieved sales of
    $23.6 billion in 2009, representing an increase of 1.9%
    over the prior year, with operational growth of 4.2% and a
    negative currency impact of 2.3%. U.S. sales were
    $11.0 billion, an increase of 4.5% over the prior year.
    International sales were $12.6 billion, a decrease of 0.2%,
    with growth of 4.0% from operations and a decrease of 4.2%
    resulting from the negative impact of currency fluctuations.

Major
    Medical Devices and Diagnostics Franchise Sales:  

Analysis
    of Consolidated Earnings Before Provision for Taxes on
    Income  

Consolidated earnings before provision for taxes on income
    increased by $1.1 billion to $16.9 billion in 2010 as
    compared to the $15.8 billion earned in 2009, an increase
    of 7.6%. The increase was primarily related to lower selling,
    marketing and administrative expenses due to cost containment
    actions resulting from the restructuring plan initiated and
    implemented in 2009, income from litigation settlements and the
    gain on the divestiture of the Breast Care business of Ethicon
    Endo-Surgery, Inc. This was partially offset by costs associated
    with product liability expense and the impact of the OTC and
    DePuy
    ASR  tm  

    Hip recalls. Additional offsets were lower

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
    CONDITION

33

net selling prices in the Pharmaceutical business due to
    U.S. health care reform and price reductions in certain
    Medical Devices and Diagnostics businesses. The 2009 decrease of
    6.9% as compared to $16.9 billion in 2008 was primarily
    related to lower sales, the negative impact of product mix,
    lower interest income due to lower rates of interest earned and
    restructuring charges of $1.2 billion. This was partially
    offset by lower selling, marketing and administrative expenses
    due to cost containment efforts across all the businesses. The
    2008 earnings included purchased in-process research and
    development (IPR D) charges of $0.2 billion and
    increased investment spending in selling, marketing and
    administrative expenses utilized from the proceeds associated
    with the divestiture of the Professional Wound Care business of
    Ethicon, Inc. As a percent to sales, consolidated earnings
    before provision for taxes on income in 2010 was 27.5% versus
    25.4% in 2009.

The sections that follow highlight the significant components of
    the changes in consolidated earnings before provision for taxes
    on income.

Cost of Products Sold and Selling, Marketing and
    Administrative Expenses:   Cost of products sold
    and selling, marketing and administrative expenses as a percent
    to sales were as follows:

In 2010, cost of products sold as a percent to sales increased
    compared to the prior year primarily due to costs associated
    with the impact of the OTC recall and remediation efforts in the
    Consumer business, lower net selling prices in the
    Pharmaceutical business due to U.S. health care reform and
    price reductions in certain Medical Devices and Diagnostics
    businesses. Additionally, unfavorable product mix attributable
    to the loss of market exclusivity for
    TOPAMAX   

    contributed to the increase. There was a decrease in the percent
    to sales of selling, marketing and administrative expenses in
    2010 compared to the prior year primarily due to cost
    containment initiatives principally resulting from the
    restructuring plan implemented in 2009. The decrease was
    partially offset by lower net selling prices in the
    Pharmaceutical business due to U.S. health care reform and
    price reductions in certain Medical Devices and Diagnostics
    businesses.

In 2009, cost of products sold as a percent to sales increased
    compared to the prior year primarily due to the continued
    negative impact of product mix and inventory write-offs
    associated with the restructuring activity. Additionally, 2008
    included some non-recurring positive items. There was a decrease
    in the percent to sales of selling, marketing and administrative
    expenses in 2009 compared to the prior year primarily due to
    cost containment efforts across all the businesses and the
    annualized savings recognized from the 2007 restructuring
    program. In addition, in 2008 the Company utilized the proceeds
    associated with the divestiture of the Professional Wound Care
    business of Ethicon, Inc. to fund increased investment spending.

In 2008, cost of products sold as a percent to sales remained
    flat to the prior year. The change in the mix of businesses,
    with higher sales growth in the Consumer business and a slight
    sales decline in the Pharmaceutical business, had a negative
    impact on the cost of products sold as a percent to sales. In
    2008, this was offset by manufacturing efficiencies and
    non-recurring positive items in 2008 and negative items in 2007.
    There was an increase in the percent to sales of selling,
    marketing and administrative expenses in 2008 primarily due to
    the change in the mix of businesses, whereby a greater
    proportion of sales were attributable to the Consumer segment,
    which has higher selling, marketing and administrative spending.
    Additionally, in 2008 the Company utilized the gain associated
    with the divestiture of the Professional Wound Care business of
    Ethicon, Inc. to fund increased investment spending. This was
    partially offset by ongoing cost containment efforts.

Research and Development expense (excluding purchased in-process
    research and development charges) by segment of business was as
    follows:

*  
     
    As a percent to segment sales

Research and Development Expense:   Research and
    development activities represent a significant part of the
    Company s business. These expenditures relate to the
    development of new products, improvement of existing products,
    technical support of products and compliance with governmental
    regulations for the protection of consumers and patients. The
    Company remains committed to investing in research and
    development with the aim of delivering high quality and
    innovative products.

Restructuring:   In 2009, the Company announced
    global restructuring initiatives that are expected to generate
    pre-tax, annual cost savings of approximately $1.5 billion
    when fully implemented in 2011. The associated savings has
    provided additional resources to invest in new growth platforms;
    ensure the successful launch of the Company s many new
    products and continued growth of the core businesses; and
    provide flexibility to adjust to the changed and evolving global
    environment. In the fiscal fourth quarter of 2009, the Company
    recorded a pre-tax charge of $1.2 billion, of which
    $113 million was included in cost of products sold.

See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
    additional details related to the restructuring.

Purchased In-Process Research and
    Development:   Beginning in 2009, in accordance
    with U.S. GAAP for business combinations, purchased
    in-process research and development (IPR D) is no longer
    expensed but capitalized and tested for impairment. The Company
    capitalized approximately $0.2 billion of IPR D in
    2010, primarily associated with the acquisitions of Acclarent,
    Inc., RespiVert Ltd. and Micrus Endovascular Corporation. The
    Company capitalized $1.7 billion of IPR D in 2009,
    primarily associated with the acquisitions of Cougar
    Biotechnology, Inc. and substantially all of the assets and
    rights of Elan related to its Alzheimer s Immunotherapy
    Program.

In 2008, the Company recorded a
    charge for IPR D of $181 million before and after tax
    related to the acquisitions of Amic AB, SurgRx, Inc.,
    HealthMedia, Inc. and Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.
    HealthMedia, Inc., a privately held company that creates
    web-based behavior change interventions, accounted for
    $7 million before tax of the IPR D charges and was
    included in the operating profit of the Consumer segment. The
    IPR D charges for all of the following acquisitions were
    included in the operating profit of the Medical Devices and
    Diagnostics segment. Amic AB, a Swedish developer of
    in vitro diagnostic technologies for use in
     point-of-care 
    and near-patient settings (outside the physical facilities of
    the clinical laboratory), accounted for $40 million before
    tax of the IPR D charges. SurgRx, Inc., a privately held
    developer of the advanced bipolar tissue sealing system used in
    the
    ENSEAL   

    family of devices, accounted for $7 million before tax of
    the IPR D charges. Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., a fully
    integrated biopharmaceutical company that develops and markets
    biosurgical and immunotherapy products, accounted for
    $127 million before tax of the IPR D charges.

Other (Income) Expense,
    Net:     Other
    (income) expense, net includes royalty income; gains and losses
    related to the sale and write-down of certain investments in
    equity securities held by Johnson   Johnson
    Development Corporation; gains and losses on the disposal of
    property, plant and equipment; currency gains and losses;
    non-controlling interests; and litigation settlements. The
    favorable change of $0.2 billion in other (income) expense,
    net, in 2010 as compared to 2009, was primarily due to a net
    gain from litigation settlements and the gain on the divestiture
    of businesses partially offset by product liability expense.

In 2009, other (income) expense,
    net included net litigation settlements of $0.4 billion. In
    2008, other (income) expense, net included income from net
    litigation settlements and awards of $0.5 billion and a
    gain of $0.5 billion from the divestiture of the
    Professional Wound Care business of Ethicon, Inc.

Operating
    Profit by Segment   

Operating profits by segment of
    business were as follows:

(1)  

See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
    more details.

(2)  

Amounts not allocated to segments include interest (income)
    expense, non-controlling interests, and general corporate
    (income) expense.

Consumer
    Segment:     In
    2010, Consumer segment operating profit decreased 5.4% from
    2009. The primary reasons for the decrease in the operating
    profit were lower sales and higher costs associated with the
    recall of certain OTC products and the suspension of production
    at McNeil Consumer Healthcare s Fort Washington,
    Pennsylvania facility. In 2009, Consumer segment operating
    profit decreased 7.4% from 2008. The primary reasons for the
    decrease in operating profit were $369 million of
    restructuring charges, partially offset by cost containment
    initiatives in 2009.

Pharmaceutical
    Segment:     In
    2010, Pharmaceutical segment operating profit increased 10.5%
    from 2009. The primary reasons for the increase in operating
    profit were lower manufacturing costs, the gain on a
    divestiture, and benefits from cost improvement initiatives
    related to the restructuring plan implemented in 2009, partially
    offset by $333 million of expense related to litigation
    matters, increased product liability expense and the impact of
    the newly enacted U.S. health care reform legislation. In
    2009, Pharmaceutical segment operating profit decreased 15.7%
    from 2008. The primary reasons for the decrease in operating
    profit were $496 million of restructuring charges,
    $92 million of litigation expense and negative product mix
    due to the loss of market exclusivity for
    TOPAMAX   

    and
    RISPERDAL   

    oral.

Medical Devices and Diagnostics
    Segment:     In
    2010, Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment operating profit
    increased 7.5% from 2009. The improved operating profit was due
    to a gain of $1.3 billion from net litigation matters and
    the gain on the divestiture of the Breast Care business recorded
    in 2010. This was partially offset by increased product
    liability expense, $280 million of costs associated with
    the DePuy
    ASR  tm    

    Hip recall program and price reductions in certain Medical
    Devices and Diagnostics businesses. In 2009, the operating
    profit in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment increased
    6.5% from 2008. The improved operating profit was due to a
    $478 million gain from net litigation settlements,
    favorable product mix, manufacturing efficiencies and cost
    containment initiatives related to selling, marketing and
    administrative expenses. This was partially offset by
    $321 million in restructuring charges.

Interest (Income)
    Expense:     Interest
    income in 2010 increased by $17 million over the prior year
    due to higher average cash balances. Cash, cash equivalents and
    marketable securities totaled $27.7 billion at the end of
    2010, and averaged $23.6 billion as compared to the
    $15.6 billion average cash balance in 2009. The increase in
    the average cash balance was primarily due to cash generated
    from operating activities and net cash proceeds from litigation
    matters and divestitures.

Interest expense in 2010 was
    relatively flat as compared to 2009 due to a lower average rate
    despite a higher debt balance. The total debt balance at the end
    of 2010 was $16.8 billion as compared to $14.5 billion
    at the end of 2009. The higher average debt balance of
    $15.7 billion in 2010 versus $13.5 billion in 2009 was
    due to increased borrowings. The Company increased borrowings,
    capitalizing on favorable terms in the capital markets. The
    proceeds of the notes were used for general corporate purposes.

Interest income in 2009 decreased
    by $271 million as compared to 2008 due to lower rates of
    interest earned despite higher average cash balances. The cash
    balance, including marketable securities, was $19.4 billion
    at the end of 2009, and averaged $15.6 billion as compared
    to the $12.2 billion average cash balance in 2008. The
    increase in the average cash balance was primarily due to cash
    generated from operating activities.

Interest expense in 2009 increased
    by $16 million as compared to 2008 due to a higher debt
    balance. The net debt balance at the end of 2009 was
    $14.5 billion as compared to $11.9 billion at the end
    of 2008. The higher average debt balance of $13.5 billion
    in 2009

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
    CONDITION

35

versus $12.9 billion in 2008 was primarily related to
    funding acquisitions and investments and the purchase of the
    Company s Common Stock under the ongoing Common Stock
    repurchase program announced on July 9, 2007.

Interest income in 2008 decreased by $91 million as
    compared to 2007 due to lower rates of interest earned despite
    higher average cash balances. The cash balance, including
    marketable securities, was $12.8 billion at the end of
    2008, and averaged $12.2 billion as compared to the
    $6.6 billion average cash balance in 2007. The increase in
    the average cash balance was primarily due to cash generated
    from operating activities.

Interest expense in 2008 increased by $139 million as
    compared to 2007 due to a higher debt balance. In the second
    half of 2007, the Company converted some of its short-term debt
    to fixed long-term debt at higher interest rates. The net debt
    balance at the end of 2008 was $11.9 billion as compared to
    $9.5 billion at the end of 2007. The higher debt balance in
    2008 was primarily due to the purchase of the Company s
    Common Stock under the ongoing Common Stock repurchase program
    announced on July 9, 2007 and to fund acquisitions.

Provision for Taxes on Income:   The worldwide
    effective income tax rate was 21.3% in 2010, 22.1% in 2009 and
    23.5% in 2008. The 2010 tax rate decreased as compared to 2009
    due to decreases in taxable income in higher tax jurisdictions
    relative to taxable income in lower tax jurisdictions and
    certain U.S. tax adjustments. The 2009 tax rate decreased
    as compared to 2008 due to increases in taxable income in lower
    tax jurisdictions relative to taxable income in higher tax
    jurisdictions.

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  

Liquidity  
    Cash Flows   

Cash and cash equivalents were $19.4 billion at the end of
    2010 as compared with $15.8 billion at the end of 2009. The
    primary sources of cash that contributed to the
    $3.6 billion increase versus the prior year were
    $16.4 billion of cash generated from operating activities,
    $2.4 billion net proceeds from long and short-term debt and
    $0.5 billion proceeds from the disposal of assets. The
    major uses of cash were capital spending of $2.4 billion,
    acquisitions of $1.3 billion, net investment purchases of
    $4.7 billion, dividends to shareholders of
    $5.8 billion, and the repurchase of Common Stock, net of
    proceeds from the exercise of options, of $1.6 billion.

Cash flows from operations were $16.4 billion in 2010. The
    major sources of cash flow were net income of
    $13.3 billion, adjusted for non-cash charges for
    depreciation, amortization, stock based compensation and
    deferred tax provision of $3.9 billion. The remaining
    changes to operating cash flow were increases in accounts
    receivable, inventories and other assets.

In 2010, the Company continued to have access to liquidity
    through the commercial paper market. For additional details on
    borrowings, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

The Company anticipates that operating cash flows, existing
    credit facilities and access to the commercial paper markets
    will provide sufficient resources to fund operating needs in
    2011.

Financing
    and Market Risk   

The Company uses financial instruments to manage the impact of
    foreign exchange rate changes on cash flows. Accordingly, the
    Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to
    protect the value of certain foreign currency assets and
    liabilities and to hedge future foreign currency transactions
    primarily related to product costs. Gains or losses on these
    contracts are offset by the gains or losses on the underlying
    transactions. A 10% appreciation of the U.S. Dollar from
    the January 2, 2011 market rates would increase the
    unrealized value of the Company s forward contracts by
    $239 million. Conversely, a 10% depreciation of the
    U.S. Dollar from the January 2, 2011 market rates
    would decrease the unrealized value of the Company s
    forward contracts by $292 million. In either scenario, the
    gain or loss on the forward contract would be offset by the gain
    or loss on the underlying transaction, and therefore, would have
    no impact on future anticipated earnings and cash flows.

The Company hedges the exposure to fluctuations in currency
    exchange rates, and the effect on certain assets and liabilities
    in foreign currency, by entering into currency swap contracts. A
    1% change in the spread between U.S. and foreign interest
    rates on the Company s interest rate sensitive financial
    instruments would either increase or decrease the unrealized
    value of the Company s swap contracts by approximately
    $212 million. In either scenario, at maturity, the gain or
    loss on the swap contract would be offset by the gain or loss on
    the underlying transaction, and therefore, would have no impact
    on future anticipated cash flows.

The Company does not enter into financial instruments for
    trading or speculative purposes. Further, the Company has a
    policy of only entering into contracts with parties that have at
    least an  A  (or equivalent) credit rating. The
    counterparties to these contracts are major financial
    institutions and there is no significant concentration of
    exposure with any one counterparty. Management believes the risk
    of loss is remote.

The Company has access to substantial sources of funds at
    numerous banks worldwide. In September 2010, the Company secured
    a new
     364-day 
    Credit Facility. Total credit available to the Company
    approximates $10 billion, which expires September 22,
    2011. Interest charged on borrowings under the credit line
    agreement is based on either bids provided by banks, the prime
    rate or London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR), plus applicable
    margins. Commitment fees under the agreement are not material.

Total borrowings at the end of 2010 and 2009 were
    $16.8 billion and $14.5 billion, respectively. The
    increase in borrowings between 2010 and 2009 was a result of
    financing for general corporate purposes and the continuation of
    the Company s Common Stock repurchase program announced in
    2007. In 2010, net cash (cash and current marketable securities,
    net of debt) was $10.9 billion compared to net cash of
    $4.9 billion in 2009. Total debt represented 22.9% of total
    capital (shareholders  equity and total debt) in 2010 and
    22.3% of total capital in 2009. Shareholders  equity

per share at the end of 2010 was $20.66 compared with $18.37 at
    year-end 2009, an increase of 12.5%.

A summary of borrowings can be
    found in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Contractual
    Obligations and Commitments   

The Company s contractual
    obligations are primarily for leases, debt and unfunded
    retirement plans, with no other significant obligations. To
    satisfy these obligations, the Company will use cash from
    operations. The following table summarizes the Company s
    contractual obligations and their aggregate maturities as of
    January 2, 2011 (see Notes 7, 10 and 16 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for further details):

For tax matters, see Note 8
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Share
    Repurchase and Dividends   

On July 9, 2007, the Company
    announced that its Board of Directors approved a stock
    repurchase program authorizing the Company to buy back up to
    $10.0 billion of the Company s Common Stock. As of
    January 2, 2011, the current stock repurchase program has
    been completed. The Company repurchased an aggregate of
    158.3 million shares of Johnson   Johnson Common
    Stock at a cost of $10.0 billion. The Company funded the
    share repurchase program through a combination of available cash
    and debt. In addition, the Company has an annual program to
    repurchase shares for use in employee stock and incentive plans.

The Company increased its dividend
    in 2010 for the 48th consecutive year. Cash dividends paid
    were $2.110 per share in 2010, compared with dividends of $1.930
    per share in 2009 and $1.795 per share in 2008. The dividends
    were distributed as follows:

On January 3, 2011, the Board
    of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of
    $0.540 per share, payable on March 15, 2011, to
    shareholders of record as of March 1, 2011. The Company
    expects to continue the practice of paying regular cash
    dividends.

Other
    Information  

Critical
    Accounting Policies and Estimates   

Management s discussion and
    analysis of results of operations and financial condition are
    based on the Company s consolidated financial statements
    that have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles
    generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of
    these financial statements requires that management make
    estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for
    revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and other related
    disclosures. Actual results may or may not differ from these
    estimates. The Company believes that the understanding of
    certain key accounting policies and estimates are essential in
    achieving more insight into the Company s operating results
    and financial condition. These key accounting policies include
    revenue recognition, income taxes, legal and self-insurance
    contingencies, valuation of long-lived assets, assumptions used
    to determine the amounts recorded for pensions and other
    employee benefit plans and accounting for stock options.

Revenue
    Recognition:     The
    Company recognizes revenue from product sales when goods are
    shipped or delivered, and title and risk of loss pass to the
    customer. Provisions for certain rebates, sales incentives,
    trade promotions, coupons, product returns and discounts to
    customers are accounted for as reductions in sales in the same
    period the related sales are recorded.

Product discounts granted are
    based on the terms of arrangements with direct, indirect and
    other market participants, as well as market conditions,
    including prices charged by competitors. Rebates, the largest
    being the Medicaid rebate provision, are estimated based on
    contractual terms, historical experience, trend analysis and
    projected market conditions in the various markets served. The
    Company evaluates market conditions for products or groups of
    products primarily through the analysis of wholesaler and other
    third-party sell-through and market research data, as well as
    internally generated information.

Sales returns are generally estimated and recorded based on
    historical sales and returns information. Products that exhibit
    unusual sales or return patterns due to dating, competition or
    other marketing matters are specifically investigated and
    analyzed as part of the accounting for sales return accruals.

Sales returns allowances represent a reserve for products that
    may be returned due to expiration, destruction in the field, or
    in specific areas, product recall. The returns reserve is based
    on historical return trends by product and by market as a
    percent to gross sales. In accordance with the Company s
    accounting policies, the Company generally issues credit to
    customers for returned goods. The Company s sales return
    reserves are accounted for in accordance with the U.S. GAAP
    guidance for revenue recognition when right of return exists.
    Sales return reserves are recorded at full sales value. Sales
    returns in the Consumer and Pharmaceutical segments are almost
    exclusively not resalable. Sales returns for certain franchises
    in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment are typically
    resalable but are not material. The Company rarely exchanges
    products from inventory for returned products. The sales returns
    reserve for the total Company has ranged between 1.0% and 1.2%
    of annual net trade sales during the prior three fiscal
    reporting years 2008   2010.

Promotional programs, such as product listing allowances and
    cooperative advertising arrangements, are recorded in the year
    incurred. Continuing promotional programs include coupons and
    volume-based sales incentive programs. The redemption cost of
    consumer coupons is based on historical redemption experience by
    product and value. Volume-based incentive programs are based on
    estimated sales volumes for the incentive period and are
    recorded as products are sold. The Company also earns service
    revenue for co-promotion of certain products. For all years
    presented, service revenues were less than 2% of total revenues
    and are included in sales to customers. These arrangements are
    evaluated to determine the appropriate amounts to be deferred.

In addition, the Company enters into collaboration arrangements,
    which contain multiple revenue generating activities. The
    revenue for these arrangements is recognized as each activity is
    performed or delivered, based on the relative fair value.
    Upfront fees received as part of these arrangements are deferred
    and recognized as revenue earned over the obligation period. See
    Note 1 to

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
    CONDITION

37

the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosures
    on collaborations.

Reasonably likely changes to
    assumptions used to calculate the accruals for rebates, returns
    and promotions are not anticipated to have a material effect on
    the financial statements. The Company currently discloses the
    impact of changes to assumptions in the quarterly or annual
    filing in which there is a material financial statement impact.

Below are tables that show the
    progression of accrued rebates, returns, promotions, reserve for
    doubtful accounts and reserve for cash discounts by segment of
    business for the fiscal years ended January 2, 2011 and
    January 3, 2010.

Consumer
    Segment   

Pharmaceutical
    Segment   

(1)    

Includes reserve for customer
    rebates of $320 million at January 2, 2011 and
    $372 million at January 3, 2010, recorded as a contra
    asset.

(2)    

Includes additional sales rebates
    to Medicaid managed care organizations as a result of health
    care reform legislation.

Medical
    Devices and Diagnostics Segment   

Income Taxes:   Income taxes are recorded based
    on amounts refundable or payable for the current year and
    include the results of any difference between U.S. GAAP
    accounting and tax reporting, recorded as deferred tax assets or
    liabilities. The Company estimates deferred tax assets and
    liabilities based on current tax regulations and rates. Changes
    in tax laws and rates may affect recorded deferred tax assets
    and liabilities in the future. Management believes that changes
    in these estimates would not have a material effect on the
    Company s results of operations, cash flows or financial
    position.

In 2007, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company adopted
    the standard related to accounting for uncertainty in income
    taxes. The Codification prescribes a recognition threshold and
    measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition
    and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken
    in a tax return. The Codification also provides guidance on
    derecognition, classification and other matters. See Note 8
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information
    regarding income taxes.

At January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010, the cumulative
    amounts of undistributed international earnings were
    approximately $37.0 billion and $32.2 billion,
    respectively. The Company intends to continue to reinvest its
    undistributed international earnings to expand its international
    operations; therefore, no U.S. tax expense has been
    recorded with respect to the undistributed portion not intended
    for repatriation.

Legal and Self Insurance Contingencies:   The
    Company records accruals for various contingencies including
    legal proceedings and product liability cases as these arise in
    the normal course of business. The accruals are based on
    management s judgment as to the probability of losses and,
    where applicable, actuarially determined estimates.
    Additionally, the Company records insurance receivable amounts
    from third-party insurers when recovery is probable. As
    appropriate, reserves against these receivables are recorded for
    estimated amounts that may not be collected from third-party
    insurers.

The Company follows the provisions of U.S. GAAP when
    recording litigation related contingencies. A liability is
    recorded when a loss is probable and can be reasonably
    estimated. The best estimate of a loss within a range is
    accrued; however, if no estimate in the range is better than any
    other, the minimum amount is accrued.

Long-Lived and Intangible Assets:   The Company
    assesses changes in economic conditions and makes assumptions
    regarding estimated future cash flows in evaluating the value of
    the Company s property, plant and equipment, goodwill and
    intangible assets. As these assumptions and estimates may change
    over time, it may or may not be necessary for the Company to
    record impairment charges.

Employee Benefit Plans:   The Company sponsors
    various retirement and pension plans, including defined benefit,
    defined contribution and termination indemnity plans, which
    cover most employees worldwide. These plans are based on
    assumptions for the discount rate, expected return on plan
    assets, expected salary increases and health care cost trend
    rates. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
    for further details on these rates and the effect a rate change
    would have on the Company s results of operations.

Stock Based Compensation:   The Company
    recognizes compensation expense associated with the issuance of
    equity instruments to employees for their services. The fair
    value of each award is estimated on the date of grant using the
    Black-Scholes option valuation model and is expensed in the
    financial statements over the vesting period. The input
    assumptions used in determining fair value are the expected
    life, expected volatility, risk-free rate and the dividend
    yield. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
    for additional information.

New
    Accounting Pronouncements   

Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
    for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently
    issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of
    January 2, 2011.

Economic
    and Market Factors   

The Company is aware that its products are used in an
    environment where, for more than a decade, policymakers,
    consumers and businesses have expressed concerns about the
    rising cost of health care. In response to these concerns, the
    Company has a long-standing policy of pricing products
    responsibly. For the period 2000   2010, in the United
    States, the weighted average compound annual growth rate of the
    Company s net price increases for health care products
    (prescription and
     over-the-counter 
    drugs, hospital and professional products) was below the
    U.S. Consumer Price Index (CPI).

Inflation rates continue to have an effect on worldwide
    economies and, consequently, on the way companies operate. The
    Company accounted for operations in Venezuela as highly
    inflationary in 2010, as the prior three-year cumulative
    inflation rate has surpassed 100%. In the face of increasing
    costs, the Company strives to maintain its profit margins
    through cost reduction programs, productivity improvements and
    periodic price increases.

The Company is exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange
    rates. A 1% change in the value of the U.S. Dollar as
    compared to all foreign currencies in which the Company had
    sales, income or expense in 2010 would have increased or
    decreased the translation of foreign sales by approximately
    $300 million and income by $65 million.

The Company faces various worldwide health care changes that may
    continue to result in pricing pressures that include health care
    cost containment and government legislation relating to sales,
    promotions and reimbursement.

Changes in the behavior and spending patterns of purchasers of
    health care products and services, including delaying medical
    procedures, rationing prescription medications, reducing the
    frequency of physician visits and foregoing health care
    insurance coverage, as a result of the current global economic
    downturn, may continue to impact the Company s businesses.

The Company also operates in an environment which has become
    increasingly hostile to intellectual property rights. Generic
    drug firms have filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs)
    seeking to market generic forms of most of the Company s
    key pharmaceutical products, prior to expiration of the
    applicable patents covering those products. In the event the
    Company is not successful in defending the patent claims
    challenged in ANDA filings, the generic firms will then
    introduce generic versions of the product at issue, resulting in
    the potential for substantial market share and revenue losses
    for that product. For further information see the discussion on
     Litigation Against Filers of Abbreviated New Drug
    Applications  in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Legal
    Proceedings   

The Company is involved in numerous product liability cases in
    the United States, many of which concern alleged adverse
    reactions to drugs and medical devices. The damages claimed are
    substantial, and while the Company is confident of the adequacy
    of the warnings and instructions for use that accompany such
    products, it is not feasible to predict the ultimate outcome of
    litigation. However, the Company believes that in most cases
    product liability will be substantially covered by existing
    amounts accrued in the Company s balance sheet under its
    self-insurance program.

The Company is also involved in a number of patent, trademark
    and other lawsuits, as well as investigations, incidental to its
    business. The ultimate legal and financial liability of the
    Company in respect to all claims, lawsuits and proceedings
    referred to above cannot be reasonably estimated. However, in
    the Company s opinion, based on its examination of these
    matters, its experience to date, and discussions with counsel,
    the ultimate outcome of legal proceedings, net of liabilities
    already accrued in the Company s balance sheet, is not
    expected to be material to the Company s financial
    position, although the resolution in any reporting period of one
    or more of these matters could have a material impact on the
    Company s results of operations and cash flows for that
    period.

See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
    further information regarding legal proceedings.

Common
    Stock Market Prices   

The Company s Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock
    Exchange under the symbol JNJ. The composite market price ranges
    for Johnson   Johnson Common Stock during 2010 and
    2009 were:

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
    CONDITION

39

Cautionary
    Factors That May Affect Future Results  

This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements.
    Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical
    or current facts and anticipate results based on
    management s plans that are subject to uncertainty.
    Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words
    such as  plans,   expects, 
     will,   anticipates,   estimates 
    and other words of similar meaning in conjunction with, among
    other things, discussions of future operations, financial
    performance, the Company s strategy for growth, product
    development, regulatory approval, market position and
    expenditures.

Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations of
    future events. The Company cannot guarantee that any
    forward-looking statement will be accurate, although the Company
    believes that it has been reasonable in its expectations and
    assumptions. Investors should realize that if underlying
    assumptions prove inaccurate or that unknown risks or
    uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially
    from the Company s expectations and projections. Investors
    are therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on any
    forward-looking statements. The Company does not undertake to
    update any forward-looking statements as a result of new
    information or future events or developments.

Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general
    industry conditions and competition; economic factors, such as
    interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations;
    technological advances, new products and patents attained by
    competitors; challenges inherent in new product development,
    including obtaining regulatory approvals; challenges to patents;
    significant litigation adverse to the Company; impact of
    business combinations; financial distress and bankruptcies
    experienced by significant customers and suppliers; changes to
    governmental laws and regulations and U.S. and foreign
    health care reforms; trends toward healthcare cost containment;
    increased scrutiny of the healthcare industry by government
    agencies; changes in behavior and spending patterns of
    purchasers of healthcare products and services; manufacturing
    difficulties or delays; product efficacy or safety concerns
    resulting in product recalls or regulatory action.

The Company s report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended January 2, 2011 includes, in
    Exhibit 99, a discussion of additional factors that could
    cause actual results to differ from expectations. The Company
    notes these factors as permitted by the Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

JOHNSON  
    JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES 
     
     CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
      
    At January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010  
    (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Data)
    (Note 1)  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

41

JOHNSON  
    JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS  

(Dollars
    in Millions Except Per Share Figures) (Note 1)  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

JOHNSON  
    JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF EQUITY  

(Dollars
    in Millions) (Note 1)  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

43

JOHNSON
      JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES 
       
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   
    (Dollars in Millions) (Note 1)  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

JOHNSON  
    JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1.    

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies  

Principles
    of Consolidation   

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    Johnson   Johnson and subsidiaries (the
     Company ). Intercompany accounts and transactions are
    eliminated.

Description
    of the Company And Business Segments   

The Company has approximately 114,000 employees worldwide
    engaged in the research and development, manufacture and sale of
    a broad range of products in the health care field. The Company
    conducts business in virtually all countries of the world and
    its primary focus is on products related to human health and
    well-being.

The Company is organized into three business segments: Consumer,
    Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics. The Consumer
    segment manufactures and markets a broad range of products used
    in the baby care, skin care, oral care, wound care and
    women s health care fields, as well as nutritional and
     over-the-counter 
    pharmaceutical products and wellness and prevention platforms.
    These products are marketed to the general public and sold both
    to retail outlets and distributors throughout the world. The
    Pharmaceutical segment includes products in the following areas:
    anti-infective, antipsychotic, contraceptive, dermatology,
    gastrointestinal, hematology, immunology, neurology, oncology,
    pain management and virology. These products are distributed
    directly to retailers, wholesalers and health care professionals
    for prescription use. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics
    segment includes a broad range of products distributed to
    wholesalers, hospitals and retailers used principally in the
    professional fields by physicians, nurses, therapists,
    hospitals, diagnostic laboratories and clinics. These products
    include Biosense Webster s electrophysiology products;
    Cordis  circulatory disease management products;
    DePuy s orthopaedic joint reconstruction, spinal care,
    neurological and sports medicine products; Ethicon s
    surgical care, aesthetics and women s health products;
    Ethicon Endo-Surgery s minimally invasive surgical products
    and advanced sterilization products; LifeScan s blood
    glucose monitoring and insulin delivery products; Ortho-Clinical
    Diagnostics  professional diagnostic products and
    Vistakon s disposable contact lenses.

New
    Accounting Pronouncements   

Recently
    Adopted Accounting Pronouncements   

During the fiscal first quarter of 2010 the Company adopted the
    Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) guidance and
    amendments related to the criteria for separating consideration
    in multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. The guidance
    (a) provides principles and application guidance on whether
    multiple deliverables exist, how the arrangement should be
    separated, and the consideration allocated; (b) requires an
    entity to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated
    selling prices of deliverables if a vendor does not have
    vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence of
    selling price; and (c) eliminates the use of the residual
    method and requires an entity to allocate the revenue using the
    relative selling price method. The adoption did not have a
    material impact on the Company s results of operations,
    cash flows or financial position; however it expanded the
    disclosures for multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements.

During the fiscal first quarter of 2010, the Company adopted the
    FASB standard related to variable interest entities. The
    adoption of this standard did not have an impact on the
    Company s results of operations, cash flows or financial
    position.

During the fiscal first quarter of 2010, the Company adopted the
    new accounting guidance on fair value measurements and
    disclosures. This guidance requires the Company to disclose the
    amount of significant transfers between Level 1 and
    Level 2 inputs and the reasons for these transfers as well
    as the reasons for any transfers in or out of Level 3 of
    the fair value hierarchy. In addition, the guidance clarifies
    certain existing disclosure requirements. The adoption of this
    standard did not have a material impact on the Company s
    results of operations, cash flows or financial position.

Recently
    Issued Accounting Standards,   

Not
    Adopted as of January 2, 2011   

During the fiscal second quarter of 2010 the FASB issued an
    accounting standard update related to revenue recognition under
    the milestone method. The objective of the accounting standard
    update is to provide guidance on defining a milestone and
    determining when it may be appropriate to apply the milestone
    method of revenue recognition for research or development
    transactions. This guidance was effective on a prospective basis
    for milestones achieved in fiscal years, and interim periods
    within those years, beginning on or after June 15, 2010.
    The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material
    impact on the Company s results of operations, cash flows
    or financial position.

Cash
    Equivalents   

The Company considers securities with maturities of three months
    or less, when purchased, to be cash equivalents.

Investments   

Short-term marketable securities are carried at cost, which
    approximates fair value. Investments classified as
     available-for-sale 
    are carried at estimated fair value with unrealized gains and
    losses recorded as a component of accumulated other
    comprehensive income. Long-term debt securities that the Company
    has the ability and intent to hold until maturity are carried at
    amortized cost. Management determines the appropriate
    classification of its investment in debt and equity securities
    at the time of purchase and re-evaluates such determination at
    each balance sheet date. The Company periodically reviews its
    investments in equity securities for impairment and adjusts
    these investments to their fair value when a decline in market
    value is deemed to be other than temporary. If losses on these
    securities are considered to be other than temporary, the loss
    is recognized in earnings.

NOTES
    TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

45

Property,
    Plant and Equipment and Depreciation   

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. The Company
    utilizes the straight-line method of depreciation over the
    estimated useful lives of the assets:

The Company capitalizes certain computer software and
    development costs, included in machinery and equipment, when
    incurred in connection with developing or obtaining computer
    software for internal use. Capitalized software costs are
    amortized over the estimated useful lives of the software, which
    generally range from 3 to 8 years.

The Company reviews long-lived assets to assess recoverability
    using undiscounted cash flows. When certain events or changes in
    operating or economic conditions occur, an impairment assessment
    may be performed on the recoverability of the carrying value of
    these assets. If the asset is determined to be impaired, the
    loss is measured based on the difference between the
    asset s fair value and its carrying value. If quoted market
    prices are not available, the Company will estimate fair value
    using a discounted value of estimated future cash flows.

Revenue
    Recognition   

The Company recognizes revenue from product sales when the goods
    are shipped or delivered and title and risk of loss pass to the
    customer. Provisions for certain rebates, sales incentives,
    trade promotions, coupons, product returns and discounts to
    customers are accounted for as reductions in sales in the same
    period the related sales are recorded.

Product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements
    with direct, indirect and other market participants, as well as
    market conditions, including prices charged by competitors.
    Rebates, the largest being the Medicaid rebate provision, are
    estimated based on contractual terms, historical experience,
    trend analysis and projected market conditions in the various
    markets served. The Company evaluates market conditions for
    products or groups of products primarily through the analysis of
    wholesaler and other third-party sell-through and market
    research data, as well as internally generated information.

Sales returns are generally estimated and recorded based on
    historical sales and returns information. Products that exhibit
    unusual sales or return patterns due to dating, competition or
    other marketing matters are specifically investigated and
    analyzed as part of the accounting for sales return accruals.
    Sales returns allowances represent a reserve for products that
    may be returned due to expiration, destruction in the field, or
    in specific areas, product recall. The returns reserve is based
    on historical return trends by product and by market as a
    percent to gross sales. In accordance with the Company s
    accounting policies, the Company generally issues credit to
    customers for returned goods. The Company s sales return
    reserves are accounted for in accordance with U.S. GAAP
    guidance for revenue recognition when right of return exists.
    Sales return reserves are recorded at full sales value. Sales
    returns in the Consumer and Pharmaceutical segments are almost
    exclusively not resalable. Sales returns for certain franchises
    in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment are typically
    resalable but are not material. The Company rarely exchanges
    products from inventory for returned products. The sales returns
    reserve for the total Company has ranged between 1.0% and 1.2%
    of annual sales to customers during the prior three fiscal
    reporting years 2008   2010.

Promotional programs, such as product listing allowances and
    cooperative advertising arrangements, are recorded in the year
    incurred. Continuing promotional programs include coupons and
    volume-based sales incentive programs. The redemption cost of
    consumer coupons is based on historical redemption experience by
    product and value. Volume-based incentive programs are based on
    the estimated sales volumes for the incentive period and are
    recorded as products are sold. The Company also earns service
    revenue for co-promotion of certain products and includes it in
    sales to customers. These arrangements are evaluated to
    determine the appropriate amounts to be deferred.

Shipping
    and Handling   

Shipping and handling costs incurred were $945 million,
    $964 million and $1,017 million in 2010, 2009 and
    2008, respectively, and are included in selling, marketing and
    administrative expense. The amount of revenue received for
    shipping and handling is less than 0.5% of sales to customers
    for all periods presented.

Inventories   

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market determined
    by the
     first-in, 
    first-out method.

Intangible
    Assets and Goodwill   

The authoritative literature on U.S. GAAP requires that
    goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives be assessed
    annually for impairment. The Company completed the annual
    impairment test for 2010 in the fiscal fourth quarter and no
    impairment was determined. Future impairment tests will be
    performed annually in the fiscal fourth quarter, or sooner if a
    triggering event occurs.

Intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be
    amortized over their useful lives, and are reviewed for
    impairment when warranted by economic conditions. See
    Note 5 for further details on Intangible Assets and
    Goodwill.

Financial
    Instruments   

As required by U.S. GAAP, all derivative instruments are
    recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair
    value of derivatives are recorded each period in current
    earnings or other comprehensive income, depending on whether the
    derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction, and if
    so, the type of hedge transaction.

The Company documents all relationships between hedged items and
    derivatives. The overall risk management strategy includes
    reasons for undertaking hedge transactions and entering into
    derivatives. The objectives of this strategy are:
    (1) minimize foreign currency exposure s impact on the
    Company s financial performance; (2) protect the
    Company s cash flow from adverse movements in foreign
    exchange rates; (3) ensure the appropriateness of financial
    instruments; and (4) manage the enterprise risk associated
    with financial institutions. See Note 6 for additional
    information on Financial Instruments.

Product
    Liability   

Accruals for product liability claims are recorded, on an
    undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a liability has
    been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably
    estimated based on existing information. The accruals are
    adjusted periodically as additional information becomes
    available. As a result of cost and availability factors,
    effective November 1, 2005, the Company ceased purchasing
    third-party product liability insurance. Based on the
    availability of prior coverage, receivables for insurance
    recoveries related to product liability claims are recorded on
    an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a recovery will
    be realized.

Research
    and Development   

Research and development expenses are expensed as incurred.
    Upfront and milestone payments made to third-parties in
    connection with research and development collaborations are
    expensed as incurred up to the point of regulatory approval.
    Payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval
    are capitalized and amortized over the remaining useful life of
    the related product. Amounts capitalized for such payments are
    included in other intangibles, net of accumulated amortization.

The Company enters into collaborative arrangements, typically
    with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, to develop
    and commercialize drug candidates or intellectual property.
    These arrangements typically involve two (or more) parties who
    are active participants in the collaboration and are exposed to
    significant risks and rewards dependent on the commercial
    success of the activities. These collaborations usually involve
    various activities by one or more parties, including research
    and development, marketing and selling and distribution. Often,
    these collaborations require upfront, milestone and royalty or
    profit share payments, contingent upon the occurrence of certain
    future events linked to the success of the asset in development.
    Amounts due from collaborative partners related to development
    activities are generally reflected as a reduction of research
    and development expense because the performance of contract
    development services is not central to the Company s
    operations. In general, the income statement presentation for
    these collaborations is as follows:

Nature/Type of Collaboration 

Statement of Earnings Presentation 

Third-party sale of product

Sales to customers

Royalties/milestones paid to collaborative partner
    (post-regulatory approval)*

Cost of goods sold

Royalties received from collaborative partner

Other income (expense), net

Upfront payments   milestones paid to collaborative
    partner (pre-regulatory approval)

Research and development expense

Research and development payments to collaborative partner

Research and development expense

Research and development payments received from collaborative
    partner

Reduction of Research and development expense

*  
     
    Milestones are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized to
    cost of goods sold over the useful life.

Advertising   

Costs associated with advertising are expensed in the year
    incurred and are included in the selling, marketing and
    administrative expenses. Advertising expenses worldwide, which
    are comprised of television, radio, print media and Internet
    advertising, were $2.5 billion, $2.4 billion and
    $2.9 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Income
    Taxes   

The Company intends to continue to reinvest its undistributed
    international earnings to expand its international operations;
    therefore, no U.S. tax expense has been recorded with
    respect to the undistributed portion not intended for
    repatriation. At January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010,
    the cumulative amount of undistributed international earnings
    was approximately $37.0 billion and $32.2 billion,
    respectively.

Deferred income taxes are recognized for tax consequences of
    temporary differences by applying enacted statutory tax rates,
    applicable to future years, to differences between the financial
    reporting and the tax basis of existing assets and liabilities.

Net
    Earnings Per Share   

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings
    available to common shareholders by the weighted average number
    of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings
    per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if
    securities were exercised or converted into common stock using
    the treasury stock method.

NOTES
    TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

47

Use of
    Estimates   

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions
    that affect the amounts reported. Estimates are used when
    accounting for sales discounts, rebates, allowances and
    incentives, product liabilities, income taxes, depreciation,
    amortization, employee benefits, contingencies and intangible
    asset and liability valuations. For instance, in determining
    annual pension and post-employment benefit costs, the Company
    estimates the rate of return on plan assets, and the cost of
    future health care benefits. Actual results may or may not
    differ from those estimates.

The Company follows the provisions of U.S. GAAP when
    recording litigation related contingencies. A liability is
    recorded when a loss is probable and can be reasonably
    estimated. The best estimate of a loss within a range is
    accrued; however, if no estimate in the range is better than any
    other, the minimum amount is accrued.

Annual
    Closing Date   

The Company follows the concept of a fiscal year, which ends on
    the Sunday nearest to the end of the month of December. Normally
    each fiscal year consists of 52 weeks, but every five or
    six years the fiscal year consists of 53 weeks, as was the
    case in 2009 and will be the case again in 2014.

Reclassification   

Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform
    to current year presentation.

2.    

Cash,
    Cash Equivalents and Current Marketable Securities  

At the end of 2010 and 2009, the amortized cost of cash, cash
    equivalents and current marketable securities were comprised of:

The estimated fair value was the same as the amortized cost as
    of January 2, 2011. The estimated fair value was
    $19,426 million as of January 3, 2010 reflecting a
    $1 million unrealized gain in Government securities and
    obligations.

As of January 2, 2011, current marketable securities
    consisted of $8,153 million and $150 million of
    government securities and obligations and corporate debt
    securities, respectively.

As of January 3, 2010, current marketable securities
    consisted of $3,434 million and $181 million of
    government securities and obligations and corporate debt
    securities, respectively.

Fair value of government securities and obligations and
    corporate debt securities were estimated using quoted broker
    prices in active markets.

The Company invests its excess cash in both deposits with major
    banks throughout the world and other high-quality money market
    instruments. The Company has a policy of making investments only
    with commercial institutions that have at least an A (or
    equivalent) credit rating.

3.    

Inventories  

At the end of 2010 and 2009, inventories were comprised of:

4.    

Property,
    Plant and Equipment  

At the end of 2010 and 2009, property, plant and equipment at
    cost and accumulated depreciation were:

The Company capitalizes interest expense as part of the cost of
    construction of facilities and equipment. Interest expense
    capitalized in 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $73 million,
    $101 million and $147 million, respectively.

Depreciation expense, including the amortization of capitalized
    interest in 2010, 2009 and 2008, was $2.2 billion,
    $2.1 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively.

Upon retirement or other disposal of property, plant and
    equipment, the costs and related amounts of accumulated
    depreciation or amortization are eliminated from the asset and
    accumulated depreciation accounts, respectively. The difference,
    if any, between the net asset value and the proceeds are
    recorded in earnings.

5.    

Intangible
    Assets and Goodwill  

At the end of 2010 and 2009, the
    gross and net amounts of intangible assets were:

* 

Purchased in-process research and
    development will be accounted for as an indefinite-lived
    intangible asset until the underlying project is completed or
    abandoned.

Goodwill as of January 2,
    2011 and January 3, 2010, as allocated by segment of
    business is as follows:

* 

Includes reclassification between
    segments.

The weighted average amortization
    periods for patents and trademarks and other intangible assets
    are 17 years and 28 years, respectively. The
    amortization expense of amortizable assets was
    $748 million, $675 million and $788 million
    before tax, for the fiscal years ended January 2, 2011,
    January 3, 2010 and December 28, 2008, respectively.
    Certain patents and intangible assets were written down to fair
    value during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, with the
    resulting charge included in amortization expense. These write
    downs did not have a material impact on the Company s
    results of operations, cash flows or financial position.

The estimated amortization expense
    for the five succeeding years approximates $730 million
    before tax, per year. Substantially all of the amortization
    expense is included in cost of products sold.

6.    

Fair
    Value Measurements  

The Company uses forward exchange
    contracts to manage its exposure to the variability of cash
    flows, primarily related to the foreign exchange rate changes of
    future intercompany product and third-party purchases of raw
    materials denominated in foreign currency. The Company also uses
    cross currency interest rate swaps to manage currency risk
    primarily related to borrowings. Both types of derivatives are
    designated as cash flow hedges. The Company also uses forward
    exchange contracts to manage its exposure to the variability of
    cash flows for repatriation of foreign dividends. These
    contracts are designated as net investment hedges. Additionally,
    the Company uses forward exchange contracts to offset its
    exposure to certain foreign currency assets and liabilities.
    These forward exchange contracts are not designated as hedges
    and therefore, changes in the fair values of these derivatives
    are recognized in earnings, thereby offsetting the current
    earnings effect of the related foreign currency assets and
    liabilities. The Company does not enter into derivative
    financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes, or
    contain credit risk related contingent features or requirements
    to post collateral. On an ongoing basis, the Company monitors
    counterparty credit ratings. The Company considers credit
    non-performance risk to be low, because the Company enters into
    agreements with commercial institutions that have at least an A
    (or equivalent) credit rating. As of January 2, 2011, the
    Company had notional amounts outstanding for forward foreign
    exchange contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps of
    $21 billion and $3 billion, respectively.

All derivative instruments are to
    be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the
    fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in current
    earnings or other comprehensive income, depending on whether the
    derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction, and if
    so, the type of hedge transaction.

The designation as a cash flow
    hedge is made at the entrance date into the derivative contract.
    At inception, all derivatives are expected to be highly
    effective. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is
    designated as a cash flow hedge and is highly effective are
    recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income until the
    underlying transaction affects earnings, and are then
    reclassified to earnings in the same account as the hedged
    transaction. Gains/losses on net investment hedges are accounted
    for through the currency translation account and are
    insignificant. On an ongoing basis, the Company assesses whether
    each derivative continues to be highly effective in offsetting
    changes in the cash flows of hedged items. If and when a
    derivative is no longer expected to be highly effective, hedge
    accounting is discontinued. Hedge ineffectiveness, if any, is
    included in current period earnings in other (income) and
    expense, net, and was not material for the fiscal years ended
    January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010. Refer to
    Note 13 for disclosures of movements in Accumulated Other
    Comprehensive Income.

As of January 2, 2011, the
    balance of deferred net gains on derivatives included in
    accumulated other comprehensive income was $100 million
    after-tax. For additional information, see Note 13. The
    Company expects that substantially all of the amount related to
    foreign exchange contracts will be reclassified into earnings
    over the next 12 months as a result of transactions that
    are expected to occur over that period. The maximum length of
    time over which the Company is hedging transaction exposure is
    18 months, excluding interest rate swaps. The amount
    ultimately realized in earnings will differ as foreign exchange
    rates change. Realized gains and losses are ultimately
    determined by actual exchange rates at maturity of the
    derivative.

NOTES
    TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

49

The following table is a summary of the activity related to
    designated derivatives for the fiscal years ended
    January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010:

All amounts shown in the table above are net of tax.

(1)   

Effective portion

(2)   

Ineffective portion

(A)  

Included in Sales to customer

(B)  

Included in Cost of products sold

(C)  

Included in Research and development expense

(D)  

Included in Interest (income)/Interest expense, net

(E)  

Included in Other (income)/expense, net

For the fiscal years ended January 2, 2011 and
    January 3, 2010, a loss of $31 million and a gain of
    $21 million, respectively, was recognized in Other
    (income)/expense, net, relating to foreign exchange contracts
    not designated as hedging instruments.

Fair value is the exit price that would be received to sell an
    asset or paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a
    market-based measurement that should be determined using
    assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an
    asset or liability. The authoritative literature establishes a
    three-level hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in measuring
    fair value. The levels within the hierarchy are described below
    with Level 1 having the highest priority and Level 3
    having the lowest.

The fair value of a derivative financial instrument (i.e.
    forward exchange contract, currency swap) is the aggregation by
    currency of all future cash flows discounted to its present
    value at the prevailing market interest rates and subsequently
    converted to the U.S. dollar at the current spot foreign
    exchange rate. The Company does not believe that fair values of
    these derivative instruments materially differ from the amounts
    that could be realized upon settlement or maturity, or that the
    changes in fair value will have a material effect on the
    Company s results of operations, cash flows or financial
    position. The Company also holds equity investments that are
    classified as Level 1 as they are traded in an active
    exchange market.

The following three levels of inputs are used to measure fair
    value:

Level 1   Quoted prices in active markets for
    identical assets and liabilities.

Level 2   Significant other observable inputs.

Level 3   Significant unobservable inputs.

The Company s significant
    financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value as of
    January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010 were as follows:

See Notes 2 and 7 for
    financial assets and liabilities held at carrying amount on the
    Consolidated Balance Sheet.

7.    

Borrowings  

The components of long-term debt
    are as follows:

Fair value of the non-current debt
    was estimated using market prices, which were corroborated by
    quoted broker prices in active markets.

The Company has access to
    substantial sources of funds at numerous banks worldwide. In
    September 2010, the Company secured a new
     364-day 
    Credit Facility. Total credit available to the Company
    approximates $10 billion, which expires September 22,
    2011. Interest charged on borrowings under the credit line
    agreements is based on either bids provided by banks, the prime
    rate or London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR), plus applicable
    margins. Commitment fees under the agreements are not material.

Throughout 2010 the Company
    continued to have access to liquidity through the commercial
    paper market. Short-term borrowings and the current portion of
    long-term debt amounted to approximately $7.6 billion at
    the end of 2010, of which $7.4 billion was borrowed under
    the Commercial Paper Program. The remainder represents
    principally local borrowing by international subsidiaries.

The Company has a shelf
    registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission that
    enables the Company to issue on a timely basis debt securities
    and warrants to purchase debt securities.

Aggregate maturities of long-term
    obligations commencing in 2010 are:

(Dollars
    in Millions)  

NOTES
    TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

51

8.    

Income
    Taxes  

The provision for taxes on income
    consists of:

A comparison of income tax expense
    at the U.S. statutory rate of 35% in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    to the Company s effective tax rate is as follows:

The Company has subsidiaries
    manufacturing in Ireland under an incentive tax rate. In
    addition, the Company has subsidiaries operating in Puerto Rico
    under various tax incentive grants. The decrease in the 2010 tax
    rate was primarily due to decreases in taxable income in higher
    tax jurisdictions relative to taxable income in lower tax
    jurisdictions and certain U.S. tax adjustments. The
    decrease in the 2009 tax rate was primarily due to increases in
    taxable income in lower tax jurisdictions relative to taxable
    income in higher tax jurisdictions.

Temporary differences and carry
    forwards for 2010 and 2009 are as follows:

The difference between the net
    deferred tax on income per the balance sheet and the net
    deferred tax above is included in taxes on income on the balance
    sheet. The 2009 deferred tax Miscellaneous U.S. includes
    current year tax receivables. The Company has a wholly-owned
    international subsidiary that has cumulative net losses. The
    Company believes that it is more likely than not that this
    subsidiary will realize future taxable income sufficient to
    utilize these deferred tax assets.

The following table summarizes the
    activity related to unrecognized tax benefits:

The Company had $2.3 billion,
    $2.4 billion and $2.0 billion of unrecognized tax
    benefits as of January 2, 2011, January 3, 2010 and
    December 28, 2008, respectively. All of the unrecognized
    tax benefits of $2.3 billion at January 2, 2011, if
    recognized, would affect the Company s annual effective tax
    rate. The Company conducts business and files tax returns in
    numerous countries and currently has tax audits in progress with
    a number of tax authorities. The U.S. Internal Revenue
    Service (IRS) has completed its audit for the tax years through
    2005; however, there are a limited number of issues remaining
    open for prior tax years going back to 1999. In other major
    jurisdictions where the Company conducts business, the years
    remain open generally back to the year 2003. The Company does
    not expect that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits
    will significantly change over the next twelve months. The
    Company is not able to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of
    the timing of any other future tax payments relating to
    uncertain tax positions.

The Company classifies liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits
    and related interest and penalties as long-term liabilities.
    Interest expense and penalties related to unrecognized tax
    benefits are classified as income tax expense. The Company
    recognized after tax interest of $34 million income,
    $36 million expense and $69 million expense in 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. The total amount of accrued
    interest was $264 million and $309 million in 2010 and
    2009, respectively.

9.    

Employee
    Related Obligations  

At the end of 2010 and 2009, employee related obligations
    recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet were:

Prepaid employee related obligations of $615 million and
    $266 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively, are included
    in other assets on the consolidated balance sheet.

10.    

Pensions
    and Other Benefit Plans  

The Company sponsors various retirement and pension plans,
    including defined benefit, defined contribution and termination
    indemnity plans, which cover most employees worldwide. The
    Company also provides postretirement benefits, primarily health
    care, to all U.S. retired employees and their dependents.

Many international employees are covered by government-sponsored
    programs and the cost to the Company is not significant.

Retirement plan benefits are primarily based on the
    employee s compensation during the last three to five years
    before retirement and the number of years of service.
    International subsidiaries have plans under which funds are
    deposited with trustees, annuities are purchased under group
    contracts, or reserves are provided.

The Company does not fund retiree health care benefits in
    advance and has the right to modify these plans in the future.

The Company uses the date of its consolidated financial
    statements (January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010,
    respectively) as the measurement date for all U.S. and
    international retirement and other benefit plans.

In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company has adopted the
    recent standards related to employers  accounting for
    defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.

Net periodic benefit costs for the Company s defined
    benefit retirement plans and other benefit plans for 2010, 2009
    and 2008 include the following components:

The net periodic benefit cost attributable to
    U.S. retirement plans was $294 million,
    $286 million and $220 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

NOTES
    TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

53

Amounts expected to be recognized in net periodic benefit cost
    in the coming year for the Company s defined benefit
    retirement plans and other postretirement plans:

(Dollars in Millions) 

Amortization of net transition obligation

$

1

Amortization of net actuarial losses

402

Amortization of prior service cost

5

Unrecognized gains and losses for the U.S. pension plans
    are amortized over the average remaining future service for each
    plan. For plans with no active employees, they are amortized
    over the average life expectancy. The amortization of gains and
    losses for the other U.S. benefit plans is determined by
    using a 10% corridor of the greater of the market value of
    assets or the projected benefit obligation. Total unamortized
    gains and losses in excess of the corridor are amortized over
    the average remaining future service.

Prior service costs/benefits for the U.S. pension plans are
    amortized over the remaining future service of plan participants
    at the time of the plan amendment. Prior service cost/benefit
    for the other U.S. benefit plans is amortized over the
    average remaining service to full eligibility age of plan
    participants at the time of the plan amendment.

The weighted-average assumptions in the following table
    represent the rates used to develop the actuarial present value
    of projected benefit obligation for the year listed and also the
    net periodic benefit cost for the following year.

The Company s discount rates are determined by considering
    current yield curves representing high quality, long-term fixed
    income instruments. The resulting discount rates are consistent
    with the duration of plan liabilities.

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption
    is determined using a building block approach, considering
    historical averages and real returns of each asset class. In
    certain countries, where historical returns are not meaningful,
    consideration is given to local market expectations of long-term
    returns.

The following table displays the assumed health care cost trend
    rates, for all individuals:

A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend
    rates would have the following effect:

One-Percentage- 

One-Percentage- 

(Dollars in Millions) 

Point Increase 

Point Decrease 

Health Care Plans 

Total interest and service cost

$

36

$

(28

)

Postretirement benefit obligation

377

(302

)

The following table sets forth information related to the
    benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets at year-end
    2010 and 2009 for the Company s defined benefit retirement
    plans and other postretirement plans:

*  
     
    The Company does not fund certain plans, as funding is not
    required. $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion of the 2010
    and 2009 projected benefit obligation and $1.3 billion and
    $1.2 billion of the underfunded status for each of the
    fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively, relates to the
    unfunded pension plans. $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion
    of the accumulated benefit obligation for the fiscal years 2010
    and 2009, respectively, relate to these unfunded pension plans.

Plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan
    assets consist of the following:

NOTES
    TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

55

The following table displays the projected future benefit
    payments from the Company s retirement and other benefit
    plans:

The 2011 other benefit plan future projected benefit payments
    exclude $345 million of severance payments associated with
    the 2009 worldwide restructuring program.

In 2010, the Company contributed $1,236 million and
    $375 million to its U.S. and international pension
    plans, respectively.

The Company plans to continue to fund its U.S. defined
    benefit plans to comply with the Pension Protection Act of 2006.

International plans are funded in accordance with local
    regulations. Additional discretionary contributions are made
    when deemed appropriate to meet the long-term obligations of the
    plans. For certain plans, funding is not a common practice, as
    funding provides no economic benefit. Consequently the Company
    has several pension plans that are not funded.

The following table displays the projected future minimum
    contributions to the Company s U.S. and international
    unfunded retirement plans. These amounts do not include any
    discretionary contributions that the Company may elect to make
    in the future.

Each pension plan is overseen by a local committee or board that
    is responsible for the overall administration and investment of
    the pension plans. In determining investment policies,
    strategies and goals, each committee or board considers factors
    including, local pension rules and regulations; local tax
    regulations; availability of investment vehicles (separate
    accounts, commingled accounts, insurance funds, etc.); funded
    status of the plans; ratio of actives to retirees; duration of
    liabilities; and other relevant factors including,
    diversification, liquidity of local markets and liquidity of
    base currency. A majority of the Company s pension funds
    are open to new entrants and are expected to be on-going plans.
    Permitted investments are primarily liquid
     and/or 
    listed, with little reliance on illiquid and non-traditional
    investments such as hedge funds. An asset allocation of 75%
    equities and 25% fixed income is generally pursued unless local
    regulations and illiquidity require otherwise.

The Company s retirement plan asset allocation at the end
    of 2010 and 2009 and target allocations for 2011 are as follows:

The Company s other benefit plans are unfunded except for
    U.S. life insurance contract assets of $14 million and
    $16 million at January 2, 2011 and January 3,
    2010, respectively.

The fair value of Johnson   Johnson Common Stock
    directly held in plan assets was $453 million (3.4% of
    total plan assets) at January 2, 2011 and $469 million
    (4.3% of total plan assets) at January 3, 2010.

Determination
    of Fair Value   

The Plan has an established and well-documented process for
    determining fair values. Fair value is based upon quoted market
    prices, where available. If listed prices or quotes are not
    available, fair value is based upon models that primarily use,
    as inputs, market-based or independently sourced market
    parameters, including yield curves, interest rates,
    volatilities, equity or debt prices, foreign exchange rates and
    credit curves.

While the Plan believes its valuation methods are appropriate
    and consistent with other market participants, the use of
    different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair
    value of certain financial instruments could result in a
    different estimate of fair value at the reporting date.

Valuation
    Hierarchy   

The authoritative literature establishes a three-level hierarchy
    to prioritize the inputs used in measuring fair value. The
    levels within the hierarchy are described in the table below
    with Level 1 having the highest priority and Level 3
    having the lowest.

A financial instrument s categorization within the
    valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that
    is significant to the fair value measurement.

Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used
    for the investments measured at fair value.

Short-term investments    Cash and quoted
    short-term instruments are valued at the closing price or the
    amount held on deposit by the custodian bank. Other investments
    are through investment vehicles valued using the Net Asset Value
    (NAV) provided by the administrator of the fund. The NAV is
    based on the value of the underlying assets owned by the fund,
    minus its liabilities, and then divided by the number of shares
    outstanding. The NAV is a quoted price in a market that is not
    active and classified as Level 2.

Government and agency securities    A limited
    number of these investments are valued at the closing price
    reported on the major market on which the individual securities
    are traded. Where quoted prices are available in an active
    market, the investments are classified within Level 1 of
    the valuation hierarchy. If quoted market prices are not
    available for the specific security, then fair values are
    estimated by using pricing models, quoted prices of securities
    with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows. When
    quoted market prices for a security are not available in an
    active market, they are classified as Level 2.

Debt instruments    A limited number of these
    investments are valued at the closing price reported on the
    major market on which the individual securities are traded.
    Where quoted prices are available in an active market, the
    investments are classified as Level 1. If quoted market
    prices are not available for the specific security, then fair
    values are estimated by using pricing models, quoted prices of
    securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows
    and are classified as Level 2. Level 3 debt
    instruments are priced based on unobservable inputs.

Equity securities    Common stocks are valued at
    the closing price reported on the major market on which the
    individual securities are traded. Substantially all common stock
    is classified within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy.

Commingled funds    The investments are public
    investment vehicles valued using the NAV provided by the fund
    administrator. The NAV is based on the value of the underlying
    assets owned by the fund, minus its liabilities, and then
    divided by the number of shares outstanding. Assets in the
    Level 2 category have a quoted market price in a market
    that is not active.

Insurance contracts    The instruments are
    issued by insurance companies. The fair value is based on
    negotiated value and the underlying investments held in separate
    account portfolios as well as considering the credit worthiness
    of the issuer. The underlying investments are government,
    asset-backed and fixed income securities. In general, insurance
    contracts are classified as Level 3 as there are no quoted
    prices nor other observable inputs for pricing.

Other assets    Other assets are represented
    primarily by limited partnerships and real estate investments,
    as well as commercial loans and commercial mortgages that are
    not classified as corporate debt. Other assets that are exchange
    listed and actively traded are classified as Level 1, while
    inactively traded assets are classified as Level 2. Most
    limited partnerships represent investments in private equity and
    similar funds that are valued by the general partners. These, as
    well as any other assets valued using unobservable inputs, are
    classified as Level 3.

The following table sets forth the trust investments measured at
    fair value as of January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010:

NOTES
    TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

57

Level 3
    Gains and Losses   

The table below sets forth a
    summary of changes in the fair value of the Plan s
    Level 3 assets for the years ended January 2, 2011 and
    January 3, 2010:

The Company has voluntary 401(k)
    savings plans designed to enhance the existing retirement
    programs covering eligible employees. The Company matches a
    percentage of each employee s contributions consistent with
    the provisions of the plan for which
     he/she  is
    eligible. Total Company matching contributions to the plans were
    $157 million, $163 million and $166 million in
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

12.    

Capital
    and Treasury Stock  

Changes in treasury stock were:

Aggregate shares of Common Stock
    issued were approximately 3,119,843,000 shares at the end
    of 2010, 2009 and 2008.

Cash dividends paid were $2.110
    per share in 2010, compared with dividends of $1.930 per share
    in 2009, and $1.795 per share in 2008.

13.    

Accumulated
    Other Comprehensive Income  

Components of other comprehensive
    income/(loss) consist of the following:

The tax effect on the unrealized
    gains/(losses) on the equity securities was expense of
    $13 million in 2010, income of $14 million in 2009 and
    expense of $14 million in 2008. The tax effect related to
    employee benefit plans was $11 million, $302 million
    and $1,090 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
    The tax effect on the gains/(losses) on derivatives and hedges
    was expense of $54 million, $78 million and
    $70 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. See
    Note 6 for additional information relating to derivatives
    and hedging.

The currency translation adjustments are not adjusted for income
    taxes as they relate to permanent investments in international
    subsidiaries.

14.    

International
    Currency Translation  

For translation of its
    subsidiaries operating in
     non-U.S. Dollar 
    currencies, the Company has determined that the local currencies
    of its international subsidiaries are the functional currencies
    except those in highly inflationary economies, which are defined
    as those which have had compound cumulative rates of inflation
    of 100% or more during the past three years, or where a
    substantial portion of its cash flows are not in the local
    currency.

In consolidating international
    subsidiaries, balance sheet currency effects are recorded as a
    component of accumulated other comprehensive income. This equity
    account includes the results of translating all balance sheet
    assets and liabilities at current exchange rates, except for
    those located in highly inflationary economies. The translation
    of balance sheet accounts for highly inflationary economies are
    reflected in the operating results.

An analysis of the changes during
    2010, 2009 and 2008 for foreign currency translation adjustments
    is included in Note 13.

Net currency transaction gains and
    losses included in other (income) expense were losses of
    $130 million, $210 million and $31 million in
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

The following is a reconciliation
    of basic net earnings per share to diluted net earnings per
    share for the fiscal years ended January 2, 2011,
    January 3, 2010 and December 28, 2008:

The diluted net earnings per share
    calculation includes the dilutive effect of convertible debt
    that is offset by the related reduction in interest expense of
    $4 million after-tax for years 2010, 2009 and 2008.

Diluted net earnings per share
    excludes 66 million, 121 million and 59 million
    shares underlying stock options for 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, as the exercise price of these options was greater
    than their average market value, which would result in an
    anti-dilutive effect on diluted earnings per share.

16.    

Rental
    Expense and Lease Commitments  

Rentals of space, vehicles,
    manufacturing equipment and office and data processing equipment
    under operating leases were approximately $299 million,
    $322 million and $309 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

The approximate minimum rental
    payments required under operating leases that have initial or
    remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year at
    January 2, 2011 are:

(Dollars
    in Millions)  

Commitments under capital leases are not significant.

17.    

Common
    Stock, Stock Option Plans and Stock Compensation
    Agreements  

At January 2, 2011, the
    Company had 7 stock-based compensation plans. The shares
    outstanding are for contracts under the Company s 2000
    Stock Option Plan, the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the 1997
    Non-Employee Director s Plan and the ALZA Corporation,
    Inverness Medical Technology, Inc., and Scios Inc. Stock Option
    Plans. During 2010, no options or restricted shares were granted
    under any of these plans except under the 2005 Long-Term
    Incentive Plan.

The compensation cost that has
    been charged against income for these plans was
    $614 million, $628 million and $627 million for
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The total income tax benefit
    recognized in the income statement for share-based compensation
    costs was $205 million, $210 million and
    $210 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The
    total unrecognized compensation cost was $613 million as of
    January 2, 2011, $612 million as of January 3,
    2010 and $632 million as of December 28, 2008. The
    weighted average period for this cost to be recognized was
    1.05 years, 1.16 years and 1.06 years for 2010,
    2009, and 2008, respectively. Share-based compensation costs
    capitalized as part of inventory were insignificant in all
    periods.

Stock
    Options   

Stock options expire 10 years
    from the date of grant and vest over service periods that range
    from six months to four years. All options are granted at the
    average of the high and low prices of the Company s Common
    Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of grant. Under
    the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Company may issue up to
    260 million shares of common stock. Shares available for
    future grants under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan were
    121.3 million at the end of 2010.

The Company settles employee stock
    option exercises with treasury shares. Treasury shares are
    replenished throughout the year for the number of shares used to
    settle employee stock option exercises.

The fair value of each option
    award was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
    option valuation model that uses the assumptions noted in the
    following table. Expected volatility represents a blended rate
    of  4-year 
    daily historical average volatility rate, and a 5-week average
    implied volatility rate based on
     at-the-money 
    traded Johnson   Johnson options with a life of
    2 years. Historical data is used to determine the expected
    life of the option. The risk-free rate was based on the
    U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.

The average fair value of options
    granted was $8.03, $8.35 and $7.66, in 2010, 2009, and 2008,
    respectively. The fair value was estimated based on the weighted
    average assumptions of:

NOTES
    TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

59

A summary of option activity under the Plan as of
    January 2, 2011, January 3, 2010 and December 28,
    2008 and changes during the years ending on those dates is
    presented below:

The total intrinsic value of options exercised was
    $278 million, $184 million and $506 million in
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

The following table summarizes stock options outstanding and
    exercisable at January 2, 2011:

(1)  

Average contractual life remaining in years. 

Stock options exercisable at January 3, 2010 and
    December 28, 2008 were 148,349 at an average price of
    $57.26 and an average life of 5.0 years and 144,962 at an
    average price of $56.25 and an average life of 5.3 years,
    respectively.

Restricted
    Share Units   

The Company grants restricted share units with a vesting period
    of three years. The Company settles employee stock issuances
    with treasury shares. Treasury shares are replenished throughout
    the year for the number of shares used for employee stock
    issuances.

A summary of share activity under the Plan as of January 2,
    2011:

The average fair value of the restricted share units granted was
    $56.69, $52.79 and $56.70 in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively,
    using the fair market value at the date of grant. The fair value
    of restricted share units was discounted for dividends, which
    are not paid on the restricted share units during the vesting
    period. The fair value of restricted share units settled was
    $375.0 million, $308.4 million and $2.5 million
    in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

18.    

Segments
    of
    Business (1) 

    and Geographic Areas  

(1)    

See Note 1 for a description
    of the segments in which the Company operates.

.  

.  

(3)    

Amounts not allocated to segments
    include interest (income) expense, non-controlling interests and
    general corporate (income) expense.

(4)    

General corporate includes cash
    and marketable securities.

(5)    

Includes $966 million of net
    litigation gain, comprised of a $333 million expense in the
    Pharmaceutical segment and a gain of $1,299 million in the
    Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment. Includes
    $569 million of product liability expense, comprised of
    $114 million in the Pharmaceutical segment and
    $455 million in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics
    segment. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment also
    includes $280 million expense for the cost associated with
    the DePuy
    ASR  TM

      Hip recall program.

(6)    

Includes $1,186 million of
    restructuring expense, comprised of $369 million,
    $496 million, and $321 million for the Consumer,
    Pharmaceutical, and Medical Devices and Diagnostics segments,
    respectively. Includes $386 million of fourth quarter net
    litigation gain, comprised of a $92 million expense in the
    Pharmaceutical segment and a gain of $478 million in the
    Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment.

(7)    

Includes $7 million and
    $174 million of IPR D for the Consumer and Medical
    Devices and Diagnostics segments, respectively. Includes
    $379 million of fourth quarter net litigation gain,
    comprised of a $50 million expense in the Consumer segment
    and a gain of $429 million in the Medical Devices and
    Diagnostics segment. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment
    also includes a $536 million gain on the divestiture of the
    Professional Wound Care business of Ethicon, Inc.

.  

NOTES
    TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

61

19.    

Selected
    Quarterly Financial Data  
    (unaudited)  

Selected unaudited quarterly
    financial data for the years 2010 and 2009 are summarized below:

(1)  

The first quarter of 2010 includes $910 million after-tax
    of income from net litigation.

(2)  

The second quarter of 2010 includes $67 million after-tax
    of income from net litigation.

(3)  

The fourth quarter of 2010 includes an after-tax charge of
    $279 million from net litigation settlements, an after-tax
    charge of $404 million for product liability expense and an
    after-tax charge of $239 million for the cost associated
    with the DePuy
    ASR  tm  

    Hip recall program.

(4)  

The fourth quarter of 2009 includes an after-tax charge of
    $852 million for restructuring and $212 million
    after-tax of income from net litigation.

20.    

Business
    Combinations and Divestitures  

Certain businesses were acquired
    for $1,269 million in cash and $52 million of
    liabilities assumed during 2010. These acquisitions were
    accounted for by the purchase method and, accordingly, results
    of operations have been included in the financial statements
    from their respective dates of acquisition.

The 2010 acquisitions included:
    Acclarent, Inc., a privately held medical technology company
    dedicated to designing, developing and commercializing devices
    that address conditions affecting the ear, nose and throat
    (ENT); RespiVert Ltd., a privately held drug discovery company
    focused on developing small-molecule, inhaled therapies for the
    treatment of pulmonary diseases and Micrus Endovascular
    Corporation, a global developer and manufacturer of minimally
    invasive devices for hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke.

The excess of purchase price over
    the estimated fair value of tangible assets acquired amounted to
    $1,185 million and has been assigned to identifiable
    intangible assets, with any residual recorded to goodwill. Of
    this amount, approximately $213 million has been identified
    as the value of IPR D associated with the acquisitions of
    Acclarent, Inc., RespiVert Ltd. and Micrus Endovascular
    Corporation.

The IPR D related to the
    acquisition of Acclarent, Inc. was $75 million and is
    associated with novel, endoscopic, catheter-based devices to
    meet the needs of ENT patients. The value of the IPR D was
    calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk
    inherent in such projects. Probability of success factors
    ranging from
     50-53%  were
    used to reflect inherent clinical and regulatory risk. The
    discount rate applied was 16%.

The IPR D related to the
    acquisition of RespiVert Ltd., was $100 million and is
    associated with narrow spectrum kinase inhibitors with a unique
    profile of anti-inflammatory activities as treatments for
    moderate to severe asthma, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
    (COPD) and Cystic Fibrosis (CF). The value of the IPR D was
    calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk
    inherent in such projects. Probability of success factors
    ranging from
     10-12%  were
    used to reflect inherent clinical and regulatory risk. The
    discount rate applied was 17%.

The IPR D related to the
    acquisition of Micrus Endovascular Corporation was
    $38 million and is associated with ischemic and flow
    diverter technologies. The value of the IPR D was
    calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk
    inherent in such projects. Probability of success factors
    ranging from
     50-75%  were
    used to reflect inherent clinical and regulatory risk. The
    discount rate applied was 14%.

During 2010, the Company announced
    an agreement to acquire all outstanding equity of Crucell N.V.
    that it does not already own for approximately $2.3 billion
    in a cash tender offer. As of January 2, 2011 the Company
    held approximately 18% of Crucell s outstanding ordinary
    shares. Crucell is a global biopharmaceutical company focused on
    the research   development, production and marketing
    of vaccines and antibodies against infectious disease worldwide.
    On February 22, 2011, the Company announced that the tender
    offer for Crucell has been completed and has declared the offer
    unconditional.

Certain businesses were acquired
    for $2,470 million in cash and $875 million of
    liabilities assumed and
     non-controlling 
    interests during 2009. These acquisitions were accounted for by
    the purchase method and, accordingly, results of operations have
    been included in the financial statements from their respective
    dates of acquisition.

The 2009 acquisitions included:
    Mentor Corporation, a leading supplier of medical products for
    the global aesthetics market; Cougar Biotechnology, Inc., a
    development stage biopharmaceutical company with a specific
    focus on oncology; Finsbury Orthopaedics Limited, a privately
    held UK-based manufacturer and global distributor of orthopaedic
    implants; Gloster Europe, a privately held developer of
    innovative disinfection processes and technologies to prevent
    healthcare-acquired infections and substantially all of the
    assets and rights of Elan s Alzheimer s Immunotherapy
    Program through a newly formed company, of which the Company
    owns 50.1% and Elan owns 49.9%.

The excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of
    tangible assets acquired amounted to $2,940 million and has
    been assigned to identifiable intangible assets, with any
    residual recorded to goodwill. Of this amount, approximately
    $1,737 million has been identified as the value of
    IPR D primarily associated with the acquisitions of Cougar
    Biotechnology, Inc. and substantially all of the assets and
    rights of Elan s Alzheimer s Immunotherapy Program.
    Additionally, approximately $1,107 million has been
    identified as the value of other intangible assets, including
    patents   technology and customer relationships
    primarily associated with the acquisition of Mentor Corporation.

The IPR D related to the acquisition of Cougar
    Biotechnology, Inc. was $971 million and is associated with
    abiraterone acetate, a late stage,
     first-in-class 
    compound for the treatment of prostate cancer. The value of the
    IPR D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted
    for the risk inherent in such projects. Probability of success
    factors ranging from 60   85% were used to reflect
    inherent clinical and regulatory risk. The discount rate applied
    was 23.5%.

During 2009, the Company acquired substantially all of the
    assets and rights of Elan s Alzheimer s Immunotherapy
    Program through a newly formed company, Janssen Alzheimer
    Immunotherapy (JAI), of which the Company owns 50.1% and Elan
    owns 49.9%. In addition, the Company purchased approximately
    107 million newly issued American Depositary Receipts
    (ADRs) of Elan, representing 18.4% of Elan s outstanding
    ordinary shares. As part of this transaction, the Company paid
    $885 million to Elan and committed to fund up to
    $250 million of Elan s share of research and
    development spending by JAI. Of this total consideration of
    $1,135 million, $793 million represents the fair value
    of the 18.4% investment in Elan based on Elan s share price
    in an actively traded market as of the date of this transaction.
    The IPR D related to this transaction was $679 million
    and is associated with bapineuzumab, a potential
     first-in-class 
    treatment that is being evaluated for slowing the progression of
    Alzheimer s Disease. The value of the IPR D was
    calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk
    inherent in such projects. Probability of success factors
    ranging from 40   50% were used to reflect inherent
    clinical and regulatory risk. The discount rate applied was 26%.
    The non-controlling interest related to this transaction was
    $590 million, which the Company has recorded in other
    non-current liabilities.

Certain businesses were acquired for $1,214 million in cash
    and $114 million of liabilities assumed during 2008. These
    acquisitions were accounted for by the purchase method and,
    accordingly, results of operations have been included in the
    financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition.

The 2008 acquisitions included: Amic AB, a privately held
    Swedish developer of in vitro diagnostic technologies for
    use in
     point-of-care 
    and near-patient settings; Beijing Dabao Cosmetics Co., Ltd., a
    company that sells personal care brands in China; SurgRx, Inc.,
    a privately held developer of the advanced bipolar tissue
    sealing system used in the
    ENSEAL   

    family of devices; HealthMedia, Inc., a privately held company
    that creates web-based behavior change interventions; LGE
    Performance Systems, Inc., a privately held company known as
    Human Performance
    Institute  tm  ,

    which develops science-based training programs to improve
    employee engagement and productivity and Omrix
    Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., a fully integrated biopharmaceutical
    company that develops and markets biosurgical and immunotherapy
    products.

The excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of
    tangible assets acquired amounted to $891 million and has
    been assigned to identifiable intangible assets, with any
    residual recorded to goodwill. Approximately $181 million
    has been identified as the value of IPR D associated with
    the acquisitions of Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., Amic AB,
    SurgRx, Inc. and HealthMedia, Inc.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of Omrix
    Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. was $127 million and is associated
    with stand-alone and combination biosurgical technologies used
    to achieve hemostasis. The value of the IPR D was
    calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk
    inherent in such projects. Probability of success factors
    ranging from 60   90% were used to reflect inherent
    clinical and regulatory risk. The discount rate applied was 14%.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of Amic AB was
    $40 million and is associated with
     point-of-care 
    device and 4CAST Chip technologies. The value of the IPR D
    was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the
    risk inherent in such projects. The discount rate applied was
    20%.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of SurgRx, Inc.
    was $7 million and is associated with vessel cutting and
    sealing surgical devices. The value of the IPR D was
    calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk
    inherent in such projects. Probability of success factors
    ranging from 90   95% were used to reflect inherent
    clinical and regulatory risk. The discount rate applied was 18%.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of HealthMedia,
    Inc. was $7 million and is associated primarily with
    process enhancements to software technology. The value of the
    IPR D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted
    for the risk inherent in such projects. A probability of success
    factor of 90% was used to reflect inherent risk. The discount
    rate applied was 14%.

Supplemental pro forma information for 2010, 2009 and 2008 in
    accordance with U.S. GAAP standards related to business
    combinations, and goodwill and other intangible assets, is not
    provided, as the impact of the aforementioned acquisitions did
    not have a material effect on the Company s results of
    operations, cash flows or financial position.

With the exception of the divestiture of the Breast Care
    Business of Ethicon Endo-Surgery Inc., for which the gain is
    recorded in other (income) expense in 2010, and the divestiture
    of the Professional Wound Care business of Ethicon, Inc., which
    resulted in a gain of $536 million before tax, and is
    recorded in other (income) expense, net, in 2008, divestitures
    in 2010, 2009 and 2008 did not have a material effect on the
    Company s results of operations, cash flows or financial
    position.

NOTES
    TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

63

Product
    Liability   

The Company s subsidiaries are involved in numerous product
    liability cases in the United States, many of which concern
    alleged adverse reactions to drugs and medical devices. The
    damages claimed are substantial, and while the Company is
    confident of the adequacy of the warnings and instructions for
    use that accompany such products, it is not feasible to predict
    the ultimate outcome of litigation. The Company has established
    product liability reserves based on currently available
    information, which in some cases may be limited and changes to
    the reserves may be required in the future as additional
    information becomes available.

Multiple products of Johnson   Johnson subsidiaries
    are subject to numerous product liability claims and lawsuits.
    There are a significant number of claimants who have pending
    lawsuits or claims regarding injuries allegedly due to ORTHO
    EVRA   ,

    RISPERDAL   ,

    LEVAQUIN   ,

    DURAGESIC   ,

    the
    CHARIT   tm  

    Artificial Disc,
    CYPHER   

    Stent, and
    ASR  tm  

    Hip. These claimants seek substantial compensatory and, where
    available, punitive damages.

With respect to
    RISPERDAL   ,

    the Attorneys General of multiple states and the Office of
    General Counsel of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania have filed
    actions seeking reimbursement of Medicaid or other public funds
    for
    RISPERDAL   

    prescriptions written for off-label use, compensation for
    treating their citizens for alleged adverse reactions to
    RISPERDAL   ,

    civil fines or penalties, damages for  overpayments 
    by the state and others, punitive damages, or other relief. The
    Attorney General of Texas has joined a qui tam action in that
    state seeking similar relief. Certain of these actions also seek
    injunctive relief relating to the promotion of
    RISPERDAL   .

    The Attorneys General of approximately 40 other states have
    indicated a potential interest in pursuing similar litigation
    against the Company s subsidiary, Janssen Pharmaceutica
    Inc. (Janssen) (now Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc.
    (OMJPI)), and have obtained a tolling agreement staying the
    running of the statute of limitations while they pursue a
    coordinated civil investigation of OMJPI regarding potential
    consumer fraud actions in connection with the marketing of
    RISPERDAL   .

    In addition, there are six cases filed by union health plans
    seeking damages for alleged overpayments for
    RISPERDAL   ,

    several of which seek certification as class actions. One of
    these has been dismissed on Summary Judgment. In the case
    brought by the Attorney General of West Virginia, based on
    claims for alleged consumer fraud as to
    DURAGESIC   

    as well as
    RISPERDAL   ,

    Janssen (now OMJPI) was found liable and damages were assessed
    at $4.5 million. OMJPI filed an appeal. The West Virginia
    Supreme Court accepted Janssen s appeal from that Judgment
    and the appeal was argued in September 2010. In October 2010,
    the West Virginia Supreme Court unanimously reversed the
    trial court s decision. In December 2010, the Attorney
    General dismissed the case as it related to
    RISPERDAL   

    without any payment. Thereafter, the Company settled the case
    insofar as it related to
    DURAGESIC   .

    In September and October 2010, a false claim suit brought under
    a Louisiana statute was tried. The jury returned a verdict of
    $257.7 million in favor of that State s Attorney
    General and against Janssen and the Company. Post-trial motions
    challenging the verdict will be filed, and if unsuccessful, will
    be followed by an appeal. The Company believes that it has
    strong arguments supporting an appeal. The Company believes that
    the potential for an unfavorable outcome is not probable,
    therefore, it has not established a reserve with respect to the
    verdict. In the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania suit against
    Janssen, trial commenced in June 2010. The Judge dismissed the
    case after the close of the plaintiff s evidence. The
    Commonwealth has filed post-trial motions which are pending.
    Other cases scheduled for trial are in South Carolina, currently
    scheduled in March 2011, and Texas scheduled in June 2011.

In August 2010, DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (DePuy) announced a
    worldwide voluntary recall of its
    ASR  tm  

    XL Acetabular System and DePuy
    ASR  tm  

    Hip Resurfacing System used in hip replacement surgery. Claims
    for personal injury have been made against the Company. The
    Company has received limited information to date with respect to
    potential claims and other costs associated with this recall.
    The Company s product liability reserve has been increased
    in part due to anticipated product liability expense, and costs
    associated with the DePuy
    ASR  tm  

    Hip recall. However, at this point in time, the Company cannot
    estimate the range of reasonably possible losses with respect to
    this matter and changes to the reserve may be required in the
    future as additional information becomes available.

Patent
    Litigation   

The products of various Johnson   Johnson subsidiaries
    are the subject of various patent lawsuits, the outcomes of
    which could potentially adversely affect the ability of those
    subsidiaries to sell those products, or require the payment of
    past damages and future royalties.

On January 29, 2010, Cordis Corporation (Cordis) settled a
    patent infringement action against Boston Scientific Corporation
    (Boston Scientific) in Delaware Federal District Court accusing
    its
    Express2  tm  ,

    Taxus   

    and
    Liberte   

    stents of infringing the Palmaz and Gray patents. Under the
    terms of the settlement, Boston Scientific dropped its lawsuit
    in which Cordis 
    CYPHER   

    stent was found to have infringed their Jang patent and paid
    Cordis $1.0 billion on February 1, 2010. Boston
    Scientific also agreed to pay Cordis an additional
    $725 million plus interest by January 3, 2011. On
    August 2, 2010, Boston Scientific paid the full
    $725 million plus interest. The Company recorded the
    $1.7 billion in the fiscal first quarter of 2010. Cordis
    granted Boston Scientific a worldwide license under the Palmaz
    and Gray patents and Boston Scientific granted Cordis a
    worldwide license under the Jang patents for all stents sold by
    Cordis except the 2.25mm size
    CYPHER   .

Cordis has several pending lawsuits in the New Jersey and
    Delaware Federal District Courts, against Guidant Corporation
    (Guidant), Abbott Laboratories, Inc. (Abbott), Boston Scientific
    and Medtronic Ave, Inc. (Medtronic) alleging that the Xience
    V  tm  

    (Abbott),
    Promus  tm  

    (Boston Scientific) and
    Endeavor   

    (Medtronic) drug eluting stents infringe several patents owned
    by or licensed to Cordis. On January 20, 2010, in one of
    the cases against Boston Scientific, alleging that sales of
    their
    Promus  tm  

    stent infringed

Wright and Falotico patents, the District Court in Delaware
    found the Wright/Falotico patent invalid for lack of written
    description
     and/or  lack
    of enablement. Cordis has appealed this ruling.

In January 2011, a jury in the Eastern District of Texas
    returned a verdict finding that Cordis  sales of its
    CYPHER   

    stent willfully infringed a patent issued to plaintiff, Bruce
    Saffran: Saffran v. Cordis (E.D. Tx.). The jury awarded
    plaintiff $482 million. Cordis has alleged that
    plaintiff s patent is invalid or unenforceable under the
    doctrine of inequitable conduct. A bench trial on this issue is
    expected to take place in March 2011. If unsuccessful on this
    defense, the Company will seek to overturn the verdict through
    post-trial motions, and on appeal if necessary. Since the
    Company believes that the potential for an unfavorable outcome
    is not probable, it has not established a reserve with respect
    to the case.

In October 2004, Tyco Healthcare Group, LP, (Tyco) and
    U.S. Surgical Corporation sued Ethicon
     Endo-Surgery, 
    Inc. (EES) alleging that several features of EES s harmonic
    scalpel infringed four Tyco patents. In October 2007, the court
    granted in part and denied in part cross-motions for summary
    judgment. As a result of the opinion, a number of claims have
    been found invalid and a number have been found infringed. No
    claim has been found valid and infringed. Trial commenced in
    December 2007, and the court dismissed the case without
    prejudice on grounds that Tyco did not own the patents in suit.
    The dismissal without prejudice was affirmed on appeal. In
    January 2010, Tyco filed another complaint in the District of
    Connecticut asserting three of the four patents from the
    previous suit and adding new products. This case is scheduled to
    be tried in October 2011.

In May 2008, Centocor, Inc. (now Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc.
    (COBI)) filed a lawsuit against Genentech, Inc. (Genentech) in
    U.S. District Court for the Central District of California
    seeking to invalidate the Cabilly II patent. Prior to
    filing suit, COBI had a sublicense under this patent from
    Celltech (who was licensed by Genentech) for
    REMICADE   

    and had been paying royalties to Celltech. COBI has terminated
    that sublicense and stopped paying royalties. Genentech has
    filed a counterclaim alleging that
    REMICADE   

    infringes its Cabilly II patents. Genentech has dropped all
    its other claims that the manufacture of
    REMICADE   ,

    STELARA   ,

    SIMPONI   

    and
    ReoPro   

    also infringes one of its other patents relating to the
    purification of antibodies made through recombinant DNA
    techniques. The court conducted a hearing on Summary Judgment
    Motions in August 2010. Shortly thereafter the parties settled
    this case with COBI receiving license under the Cabilly II
    patent.

In January 2011, Genentech initiated an arbitration against
    Celltech seeking damages for allegedly cooperating with COBI to
    improperly terminate a prior agreement in which COBI was
    sublicensed under the Cabilly patents. COBI has an indemnity
    agreement with Celltech, and Celltech has asserted that COBI is
    liable for any damages Celltech may be required to pay
    Genentech, in that arbitration.

In April 2009, a bench trial was held before the Federal
    District Court for the Middle District of Florida on the
    liability phase of CIBA VISION Corporation s (CIBA) patent
    infringement lawsuit alleging that Johnson   Johnson
    Vision Care, Inc. s (JJVC)
    ACUVUE   

    OASYS  tm  

    lenses infringe three of their Nicholson patents. In August
    2009, the District Court found two of these patents valid and
    infringed and entered judgment against JJVC. JJVC appealed that
    judgment to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On
    April 27, 2010, the District Court denied CIBA s
    motion to permanently enjoin the infringing lenses. CIBA
    appealed this ruling and its appeal was consolidated with
    JJVC s appeal on the merits. CIBA brought suit against JJVC
    under its counterparts to the Nicholson patents in various
    European countries. In the Netherlands and France the patents
    were found valid and infringed and JJVC was enjoined from
    selling
    OASYS  tm  .

    Both those decisions were appealed. In France the appeal was
    denied. In the Netherlands the appeal was pending. CIBA s
    patents were found to be invalid in Germany, the UK and Austria
    and CIBA appealed those decisions. In January 2011 the parties
    settled all pending lawsuits and appeals in the contact lens
    field worldwide and entered in cross-licenses of various patents
    pertinent to the contact lens field including the Nicholson
    patents. The injunctions in France and the Netherlands have been
    lifted.

In May 2009, Abbott Biotechnology Ltd. (Abbott) filed a patent
    infringement lawsuit against Centocor (now COBI) in the United
    States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The
    suit alleges that Centocor s
    SIMPONI   

    product, a human anti-TNF alpha antibody, infringes
    Abbott s  394 patent (the Salfeld patent). The case
    was stayed pending the resolution of an arbitration filed by
    Centocor directed to its claim that it is licensed under the
     394 patent. In June 2010, the Arbitrator ruled that
    Centocor did not have a license to the
     patents-in-suit. 
    The matter will proceed before the District Court of
    Massachusetts on the issues of infringement and validity of the
    Abbott patents.

In August 2009, Abbott GmbH   Co. (Abbott GmbH) and
    Abbott Bioresearch Center filed a patent infringement lawsuit
    against Centocor (now COBI) in the United States District Court
    for the District of Massachusetts. The suit alleges that
    COBI s
    STELARA   

    product infringes two U.S. patents assigned to Abbott GmbH.
    In August 2009, COBI filed a complaint for a declaratory
    judgment of non-infringement and invalidity of the Abbott GmbH
    patents in the United States District Court for the District of
    Columbia. On the same date, also in the United States District
    Court for the District of Columbia, COBI filed a Complaint for
    Review of a Patent Interference Decision granting priority of
    invention on one of the two asserted patents to Abbott GmbH. In
    August 2009, Abbott GmbH and Abbott Laboratories Limited brought
    a patent infringement suit in The Federal Court of Canada
    alleging that
    STELARA   

    infringes Abbott GmbH s Canadian patent. The Canadian case
    is scheduled to be tried in October 2012. The cases filed by
    COBI in the District of Columbia have been transferred to the
    District of Massachusetts. Discovery in this case is ongoing.

In August 2009, Bayer HealthCare LLC (Bayer) filed suit against
    COBI in Massachusetts District Court alleging infringement by
    COBI s
    SIMPONI   

    product of its patent relating to human anti-TNF antibodies. On
    January 28, 2011, the court issued judgment dismissing
    Bayer s infringement claims. Bayer may appeal this ruling.
    In November 2009, Bayer also filed suit under its European
    counterpart to these patents in Germany and the Netherlands. The
    court in the Netherlands held the Dutch patent invalid in a
    parallel case Bayer brought against Abbott. The Dutch court
    subsequently entered judgment in favor of the European Centocor
    affiliate and Bayer appealed that judgment in the Netherlands.
    The infringement trial in Germany is scheduled to begin in
    August of 2011.

NOTES
    TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

65

In June 2009, Centocor s (now COBI) lawsuit alleging that
    Abbott s
    HUMIRA   

    anti-TNF alpha product infringes Centocor s  775
    patent went to trial in Federal District Court in the Eastern
    District of Texas. On June 28, 2009 a jury returned a
    verdict finding the patent valid and willfully infringed, and
    awarded Centocor damages of approximately $1.7 billion. A
    bench trial on Abbott s defenses, of inequitable conduct
    and prosecution laches, was held in August 2009, and the
    District Court decided these issues in favor of Centocor. All of
    Abbott s post trial motions have been denied except that
    the District Court granted Abbott s motion to overturn the
    jury finding of willfulness. Judgment in the amount of
    approximately $1.9 billion, inclusive of interest was
    entered in favor of Centocor in December 2009, and Abbott filed
    an appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit;
    therefore the Company has not reflected any of the
    $1.9 billion in its consolidated financial statements. The
    oral argument on appeal was held on November 2, 2010. In
    December 2009, Centocor also filed a new lawsuit in the Eastern
    District of Texas seeking damages for infringement of the
     775 patent attributable to sales of
    HUMIRA   

    subsequent to the jury verdict in June 2009. On
    February 23, 2011, the Court of Appeals reversed the
    June 2009 decision and the $1.9 billion judgment of
    the District Court.

The following chart summarizes various patent lawsuits
    concerning products of the Company s subsidiaries that have
    yet to proceed to trial:

Plaintiff/ 

Trial 

Date 

J J Product 

Company 

Patents 

Patent Holder 

Court 

Date** 

Filed 

CYPHER   

    Stent

Cordis

Wall

Wall

E.D. TX

Q2/11

11/07

CYPHER   

    Stent

Cordis

Saffran

Saffran

E.D. TX

*Trial 
    conc- 
    luded

10/07

Blood Glucose Meters and Strips

LifeScan

Wilsey

Roche Diagnostics

D. DE

*

11/07

SIMPONI   

Centocor/COBI

Salfeld

Abbott Laboratories

MA

*

05/09

SIMPONI   

Centocor/COBI

Boyle

Bayer Healthcare

MA

***

08/09

STELARA   

Centocor/COBI

Salfeld

Abbott GmbH

MA

*

08/09

*  

Trial date to be scheduled. 

**  

Q reflects the Company s fiscal quarter. 

***  

Summary judgment granted. 

Litigation
    Against Filers of Abbreviated New Drug Applications
    (ANDAs)   

The following chart indicates lawsuits pending against generic
    firms that filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs)
    seeking to market generic forms of products sold by various
    subsidiaries of the Company prior to expiration of the
    applicable patents covering those products. These ANDAs
    typically include allegations of non-infringement, invalidity
    and unenforceability of these patents. In the event the
    subsidiary of the Company involved is not successful in these
    actions, or the statutory
     30-month 
    stay expires before a ruling from the District Court is
    obtained, the firms involved will have the ability, upon FDA
    approval, to introduce generic versions of the product at issue
    resulting in very substantial market share and revenue losses
    for the product of the Company s subsidiary.

As noted in the following chart,
     30-month 
    stays expired during 2009, 2010, and will expire in 2011, 2012
    and 2013 with respect to ANDA challenges regarding various
    products:

*  

Trial date to be scheduled. 

**  

Q reflects the Company s fiscal quarter. 

In October 2008, the
    Company s subsidiary Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals,
    Inc. (OMJPI) filed suit in Federal District Court in New Jersey
    against Watson Laboratories, Inc. (Watson) in response to
    Watson s ANDA regarding ORTHO
    TRI-CYCLEN   

    LO. In June 2009, OMJPI filed suit in Federal District Court in
    New Jersey against Sandoz Laboratories, Inc. (Sandoz) in
    response to Sandoz s ANDA regarding ORTHO
    TRI-CYCLEN   

    LO. The Sandoz and Watson cases have been consolidated. In
    September 2010, OMJPI entered into a settlement agreement with
    Sandoz.

In January 2010, the
    Company s subsidiary OMJPI filed suit in Federal District
    Court in New Jersey against Lupin Ltd. and Lupin
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (collectively Lupin) in response to
    Lupin s ANDA regarding ORTHO
    TRI-CYCLEN   

    LO. The Lupin case has been consolidated with the Watson case
    (discussed above). In November 2010, the Company s
    subsidiary OMJPI filed suit in Federal District Court in New
    Jersey against Mylan Inc. and Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
    (collectively Mylan), and Famy Care, Ltd., in response to Famy
    Care s ANDA regarding ORTHO
    TRI-CYCLEN   

    LO.

In the action by McNEIL-PPC, Inc.
    (McNeil-PPC) and ALZA Corporation (ALZA) against Andrx
    Corporation (Andrx) with respect to its ANDA challenge to the
    CONCERTA   

    patents, a
     five-day 
    non-jury trial was held in the Federal District Court in
    Delaware in December 2007. In March 2009, the court ruled that
    one
    CONCERTA   

    patent would not be infringed by Andrx s proposed generic
    product and that the patent was invalid because it was not
    enabled. The court dismissed without prejudice Andrx s
    declaratory judgment suit on a second patent for lack of
    jurisdiction. McNeil-PPC and ALZA filed an appeal in May 2009.
    The appeals court heard argument on February 3, 2010. On
    April 26, 2010, the court of appeals affirmed the judgment
    of the district court that the patent is invalid because it is
    not enabled. The court did not reach the issue of infringement.

In January 2010, ALZA and OMJPI
    filed suit in Federal District Court in Delaware against
    Kremers-Urban, LLC and KUDCO Ireland, Ltd. (KUDCO) in response
    to KUDCO s ANDA challenge regarding
    CONCERTA   

    tablets. In its notice letter, KUDCO contends that two ALZA
    patents for
    CONCERTA   

    are invalid and not infringed by a KUDCO generic. One patent has
    since been dropped from the case.

In November 2010, ALZA and OMJPI
    filed suit in Federal District Court in Delaware against Impax
    Laboratories, Inc., Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva
    Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd. in response to notice from Impax
    that it made a major amendment to its ANDA with respect to its
    56 mg dose generic version of
    CONCERTA   .

    In its notice letter describing its major amendment, Impax
    contends that a
    CONCERTA   

    patent is invalid and not infringed by its proposed generic
    version.

In the action against Lupin
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Lupin) regarding its ANDA concerning
    LEVAQUIN   ,

    Lupin contended that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
    improperly granted a patent term extension to the patent that
    Ortho-McNeil, Inc. (now Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals,
    Inc. (OMJPI)) licenses from Daiichi Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
    (Daiichi). Lupin alleged that the active ingredient in
    LEVAQUIN   

    was the subject of prior marketing, and therefore was not
    eligible for the patent term extension. Lupin conceded validity
    and that its product would violate the patent if marketed prior
    to the expiration of the original patent term. Summary judgment
    against Lupin was granted in May 2009 and Lupin appealed. Oral
    argument was held in September 2009. In May 2010, the Court of
    Appeals affirmed the judgment of the trial court in favor of
    Ortho-McNeil (now OMJPI) and Daiichi that the patent term
    extension covering
    LEVAQUIN   

    (levofloxacin) is valid. Thereafter, Lupin requested rehearing
    en banc, which was denied.

In the
    ULTRAM   

    ER actions, Ortho-McNeil, Inc. (now OMJPI), filed lawsuits (each
    for different dosages) in the U.S. District Court of
    Delaware against Par Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Par
    Pharmaceuticals Companies, Inc. (Par) in May, June and October
    2007, on two Tramadol ER formulation patents owned by Purdue
    Pharma Products L.P. (Purdue) and Napp Pharmaceutical Group Ltd.
    (Napp). OMJPI also filed lawsuits (each for different dosages)
    against Impax Laboratories, Inc. (Impax) on a Tramadol ER
    formulation patent owned by Purdue and Napp in August and
    November 2008. Purdue, Napp and Biovail Laboratories
    International SRL (Biovail) (the NDA holder) joined as
    co-plaintiffs in the lawsuits against Par and Impax, but Biovail
    and OMJPI were subsequently dismissed for lack of standing. The
    trial against Par took place in April 2009. In August 2009, the
    Court issued a decision finding the
     patents-in-suit 
    invalid. Purdue has appealed that decision. In November 2009,
    the case against Impax was stayed with the consent of all
    parties. In September and October 2009, respectively, Purdue
    filed suits against Paddock Laboratories, Inc. (Paddock) and
    Cipher Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Cipher) on its Tramadol ER
    formulation patents. In June 2010, the Federal Circuit Court
    affirmed the District Court s decision in the Par case. The
    case against Cipher, Impax and Paddock were dismissed based on
    the collateral estoppel effect of the Par decision.

In January 2010, Purdue filed a suit against Lupin Ltd. on its
    Tramadol ER formulation patents.

In November 2010, the Company s subsidiary Tibotec, Inc.
    (Tibotec) filed suit in Federal District Court in New Jersey
    against Lupin, Ltd., Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (collectively
    Lupin), Mylan, Inc. and Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
    (collectively Mylan) in response to Lupin s and
    Mylan s respective ANDA s regarding
    PREZISTA   .

In January 2011, Tibotec, Inc. (Tibotec) received a
    Paragraph IV Notification from Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
    advising that Teva has filed an ANDA seeking approval to market
    a generic
    PREZISTA   

    product before the expiration of certain patents owned or
    licensed by Tibotec. Tibotec is evaluating this Notification.

General
    Litigation   

In September 2004, plaintiffs in an employment discrimination
    litigation initiated against the Company in 2001 in Federal
    District Court in New Jersey moved to certify a class of all
    African American and Hispanic salaried employees of the Company
    and its affiliates in the U.S., who were employed at any time
    from November 1997 to the present. Plaintiffs seek monetary
    damages for the period 1997 through the present (including
    punitive damages) and equitable relief. The Court denied
    plaintiffs  class certification motion in December 2006 and
    their motion for reconsideration in April 2007. Plaintiffs
    sought to appeal these decisions and, in April 2008, the Court
    of Appeals ruled that plaintiffs  appeal of the denial of
    class certification was untimely. In July 2009, plaintiffs filed
    a motion for certification of a modified class, which the
    Company opposed. The district court denied plaintiffs 
    motion in July 2010, and the Court of Appeals denied
    plaintiffs  request for leave to appeal the denial of
    certification of the modified class. The Company will continue
    to defend against the plaintiffs  individual claims of
    discrimination.

In September 2009, Centocor Ortho Biotech Products, L.P. (COBLP)
    intervened in an inventorship dispute between Kansas University
    Center for Research (KUCR) involving certain
    U.S. Government-owned
    VELCADE   

    formulation patents. KUCR brought this action against the
    U.S. Government in the District of Kansas seeking to add
    two Kansas University scientists to the patents. The
    U.S. Government licensed the patents (and their foreign
    counterparts) to Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (MPI) , who in
    turn sublicensed

NOTES
    TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

67

the patents (and their foreign counterparts) to COBI for
    commercial marketing outside the U.S. If KUCR succeeds in
    its co-inventorship claim and establishes co-ownership in the
    U.S. VELCADE   

    formulation patents, there is a potential for the same issue to
    arise with respect to the foreign counterparts of the patents.
    If KUCR is successful, this may adversely affect COBI s
    license rights in those countries. In May 2010, the parties
    reached an agreement to resolve the disputes in this case and
    will submit the inventorship issue to arbitration, and the case
    has been stayed pending the arbitration. If KUCR wins the
    arbitration, the parties will request that the Court issue an
    order to correct inventorship on the relevant patents; if the
    U.S. Government, COBI, and MPI prevail, the case will be
    dismissed with prejudice.

In February 2009, Basilea Pharmaceutica AG (Basilea) brought an
    arbitration against Johnson   Johnson,
    Johnson   Johnson Pharmaceutical Research  
    Development, L.L.C., and Cilag GmbH International alleging that
    the Company breached the 2005 License Agreement for Ceftobiprole
    by, among other things, failing to secure FDA approval of the
    cSSSI (skin) indication and allegedly failing to properly
    develop the pneumonia indication. In November 2010, the
    arbitration panel issued its decision and the Company has
    satisfied the damages award.

In May 2009, COBI commenced an arbitration proceeding before the
    American Arbitration Association against Schering-Plough
    Corporation and its subsidiary Schering-Plough (Ireland) Company
    (collectively, Schering-Plough). COBI and Schering-Plough are
    parties to a series of agreements (Distribution Agreements) that
    grant Schering-Plough the exclusive right to distribute the
    drugs
    REMICADE   

    and
    SIMPONI   

    worldwide, except within the United States, Japan, Taiwan,
    Indonesia, and the People s Republic of China (including
    Hong Kong) (the Territory). COBI distributes
    REMICADE   

    and
    SIMPONI   

    the next generation treatment, within the United States. In
    the arbitration, COBI seeks a declaration that the agreement and
    merger between Merck   Co., Inc. (Merck) and
    Schering-Plough constitutes a change of control under the terms
    of the Distribution Agreements that permits COBI to terminate
    the Agreements. The termination of the Distribution Agreements
    would return to COBI the right to distribute
    REMICADE   

    and
    SIMPONI   

    within the Territory. Schering-Plough has filed a response to
    COBI s arbitration demand that denies that it has undergone
    a change of control. The arbitrators were selected and the
    evidentiary portion of the hearing was concluded in October
    2010. Oral argument was held in late 2010. A decision is
    expected during the first half of 2011.

In December 2009, the State of Israel (Sheba Medical Center)
    filed suit in the District Court in Tel Aviv Jaffa against
    various Omrix affiliates. In the lawsuit, the State claims that
    an employee of a government-owned hospital was the inventor on
    several patents related to fibrin glue technology, that he
    developed while he was a government employee. The State claims
    that he had no right to transfer any intellectual property to
    Omrix because it belongs to the State. The State is seeking
    damages plus royalty on
    QUIXIL  tm  

    and
    EVICEL  tm  

    or, alternatively, transfer of the patents to the State.

Average
    Wholesale Price (AWP) Litigation  

The Company and several of its pharmaceutical subsidiaries,
    along with numerous other pharmaceutical companies, are
    defendants in a series of lawsuits in state and federal courts
    involving allegations that the pricing and marketing of certain
    pharmaceutical products amounted to fraudulent and otherwise
    actionable conduct because, among other things, the companies
    allegedly reported an inflated Average Wholesale Price (AWP) for
    the drugs at issue. Many of these cases, both federal actions
    and state actions removed to federal court, have been
    consolidated for pre-trial purposes in a Multi-District
    Litigation (MDL) in Federal District Court in Boston,
    Massachusetts. The plaintiffs in these cases include classes of
    private persons or entities that paid for any portion of the
    purchase of the drugs at issue based on AWP, and state
    government entities that made Medicaid payments for the drugs at
    issue based on AWP.

The MDL Court identified classes of Massachusetts-only private
    insurers providing  Medi-gap  insurance coverage and
    private payers for physician-administered drugs where payments
    were based on AWP (Class 2 and Class 3), and a
    national class of individuals who made co-payments for
    physician-administered drugs covered by Medicare (Class 1).
    A trial of the two Massachusetts-only class actions concluded
    before the MDL Court in December 2006. In June 2007, the MDL
    Court issued post-trial rulings, dismissing the
    Johnson   Johnson defendants from the case regarding
    all claims of Classes 2 and 3, and subsequently of
    Class 1 as well. Plaintiffs appealed the Class 1
    judgment and, in September 2009, the Court of Appeals vacated
    the judgment and remanded for further proceedings in the
    District Court. . The Johnson   Johnson defendants
    then filed a motion for summary judgment with regard to
    Class 1, which the District Court granted in part and
    denied in part. Subsequently, the Johnson   Johnson
    defendants filed a motion challenging the adequacy of
    Plaintiffs  proposed class representative, which is pending.

AWP cases brought by various Attorneys General have proceeded to
    trial against other manufacturers. Three state cases against
    certain of the Company s subsidiaries have been set for
    trial: Idaho in October 2011, Kentucky in January 2012 and
    Kansas in March 2013. Other state cases are likely to be set for
    trial in the coming year. In addition, an AWP case against the
    Johnson   Johnson defendants brought by the state of
    Pennsylvania was tried in Commonwealth Court in October and
    November 2010. The Court found in the State s favor with
    regard to certain of its claims under the Pennsylvania Unfair
    Trade Practices and Consumer Protection Law, entered an
    injunction, and awarded $45 million in restitution and
    $6.5 million in civil penalties. The Court found in the
    Johnson   Johnson defendants favor on the State s
    claims of Unjust Enrichment, Misrepresentation/Fraud, Civil
    Conspiracy, and on certain of the State s claims under the
    Pennsylvania Unfair Trade Practices and Consumer Protection Law.
    The parties are currently engaged in post trial briefing, which
    will be followed by an appeal to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court
    if necessary. The Company believes that it has strong arguments
    supporting an appeal. The Company believes that the potential
    for an unfavorable outcome is not probable, therefore, it has
    not established a reserve with respect to the verdict.

In April 2010, a lawsuit was filed in the United States District
    Court for the Northern District of California against the
    Company, Omnicare, Inc., and other unidentified companies or
    individuals. The Company filed a motion to dismiss. Plaintiffs
    then filed an amended complaint. The amended complaint asserts
    that defendants engaged in an unlawful trying arrangement in
    violation of the Sherman Act and the California Business and
    Professions Code. The amended complaint also asserted claims of
    unjust enrichment and civil conspiracy. The Company moved to
    dismiss the amended complaint. On January 13, 2011, the
    court granted the Company s motion to dismiss as to all
    causes of action in the amended complaint, and granted
    plaintiffs  leave to file an amended complaint.

Johnson   Johnson has been named the nominal defendant
    in six shareholder derivative lawsuits in the U.S. District
    Court for the District of New Jersey on behalf of Company
    shareholders against certain current and former directors and
    officers of the Company

derivatively on behalf of the Company: Calamore v. Coleman
    et. al., filed April 21, 2010; Carpenters Pension Fund of
    West Virginia v. Weldon, et. al., filed May 5, 2010;
    Feldman v. Coleman, et. al., filed May 6, 2010; Hawaii
    Laborers Pension Fund v. Weldon, et. al., filed
    May 14, 2010; Ryan v. Weldon, et. al., filed
    June 18, 2010; and Minneapolis Firefighters  Relief
    Association, NECA-IBEW Pension Trust Fund, and NECA-IBEW
    Welfare Trust Fund v. Weldon, et. al., filed
    June 24, 2010. These actions were consolidated on
    August 17, 2010 into one lawsuit: In re Johnson  
    Johnson Shareholder Derivative Litigation. An amended
    consolidated complaint was filed on December 17, 2010. An
    additional derivative suit was filed in the U.S. District
    Court for the District of New Jersey on December 1, 2010:
    Copeland v. Mulcahy, et al. That lawsuit has been
    consolidated into the In re Johnson   Johnson
    Shareholder Derivative Litigation. Additionally,
    Johnson   Johnson has been named the nominal defendant
    in a shareholder derivative lawsuit in New Jersey Superior Court
    on behalf of Company shareholders against certain current and
    former directors and officers of the Company derivatively on
    behalf of the Company: Wolin v. Johnson  
    Johnson, filed September 23, 2010. The parties to the Wolin
    action have stipulated that the Wolin action shall be stayed
    until the In re Johnson   Johnson Shareholder
    Derivative Litigation is completely resolved. Each of these
    shareholder derivative actions is similar in its claims and
    collectively they assert a variety of alleged breaches of
    fiduciary duties, including, among other things, that the
    defendants allegedly engaged in, approved of, or failed to
    remedy or prevent defective medical devices, improper
    pharmaceutical rebates, improper off-label marketing of
    pharmaceutical and medical device products, violations of
    current good manufacturing practice regulations that resulted in
    product recalls, and failed to disclose the aforementioned
    alleged misconduct in the Company s filings under the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Each complaint seeks a variety
    of relief, including monetary damages and corporate governance
    reforms.

On July 27, 2010, a complaint was filed by a shareholder of
    the Company in New Jersey Superior Court, Chancery Division,
    Middlesex County (Lipschutz v. Johnson   Johnson)
    seeking to compel inspection of Company books and records with
    respect to certain product recalls and various manufacturing
    plants. This lawsuit was dismissed on October 7, 2010.

Other   

In July 2003, Centocor (now COBI), received a request that it
    voluntarily provide documents and information to the criminal
    division of the U.S. Attorney s Office, District of
    New Jersey, in connection with its investigation into various
    Centocor marketing practices. Subsequent requests for documents
    have been received from the U.S. Attorney s Office.
    Both the Company and Centocor have responded to these requests
    for documents and information.

In December 2003, Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc. (now OMJPI)
    received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney s Office in
    Boston, Massachusetts seeking documents relating to the
    marketing, including alleged off-label marketing, of the drug
    TOPAMAX   

    (topiramate). In the fiscal second quarter of 2010, OMJPI
    entered into a settlement agreement resolving the federal
    government s investigation. As one part of the settlement,
     Ortho-McNeil 
    Pharmaceutical, LLC, a subsidiary of OMJPI, pled guilty to a
    single misdemeanor violation of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act
    and paid a criminal fine. OMJPI denies it engaged in any
    wrongful conduct, beyond acknowledging the limited conduct of
    Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, LLC, that is the basis of the
    misdemeanor plea. In addition the total settlement included a
    civil payment, part of which was paid to the federal government
    and part of which was paid or set aside for payment to states
    for their Medicaid programs.

In January 2004, Janssen Pharmaceutica, Inc. (now OMJPI)
    received a subpoena from the Office of the Inspector General of
    the U.S. Office of Personnel Management seeking documents
    concerning sales and marketing of, any and all payments to
    physicians in connection with sales and marketing of, and
    clinical trials for,
    RISPERDAL   

    (risperidone) from 1997 to 2002. Documents subsequent to 2002
    have also been requested. An additional subpoena seeking
    information about marketing of and adverse reactions to
    RISPERDAL   

    was received from the U.S. Attorney s Office for the
    Eastern District of Pennsylvania in November 2005. Subpoenas
    seeking testimony from various witnesses before a grand jury
    have also been received. Janssen is cooperating in responding to
    ongoing requests for documents and witnesses. The government is
    continuing to actively investigate this matter. In February
    2010, the government served Civil Investigative Demands seeking
    additional information relating to sales and marketing of
    RISPERDAL   

    and sales and marketing of
    INVEGA   .

    The focus of these matters is the alleged promotion of
    RISPERDAL   

    and
    INVEGA   

    for off-label uses. The government has notified the Company that
    there are pending qui tam actions alleging off-label promotion
    of
    RISPERDAL   .

    Discussions are ongoing in an effort to resolve potential
    criminal and civil claims arising from these matters. Whether a
    resolution can be reached and on what terms is uncertain. While
    a loss is probable with respect to this matter, the Company is
    unable to estimate a potential loss at this time. The ultimate
    resolution of these matters is not expected to have a material
    adverse effect on the Company s financial position,
    although the resolution in any reporting period could have a
    material impact on the Company s results of operations and
    cash flows for that period.

In September 2004, Ortho Biotech Inc. (now COBI), received a
    subpoena from the U.S. Office of Inspector General s
    Denver, Colorado field office seeking documents directed to the
    sales and marketing of
    PROCRIT   

    (Epoetin alfa) from 1997 to the present, as well as to dealings
    with U.S. Oncology Inc., a healthcare services network for
    oncologists. COBI has responded to the subpoena.

In November 2007, the Attorney General of the Commonwealth of
    Massachusetts issued a Civil Investigative Demand to DePuy
    Orthopaedics, Inc. (DePuy) seeking information regarding
    financial relationships between a number of Massachusetts-based
    orthopedic surgeons and providers, and DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc.
    DePuy has responded to Massachusetts  additional requests.

In July 2005, Scios Inc. (Scios), received a subpoena from the
    U.S. Attorney s Office, District of Massachusetts,
    seeking documents related to the sales and marketing of
    NATRECOR   .

    Scios responded to the subpoena. In early August 2005, Scios was
    advised that the investigation would be handled by the
    U.S. Attorney s Office for the Northern District of
    California in San Francisco. Additional requests for
    documents have been received and responded to and former Scios
    employees have testified before a grand jury in
    San Francisco. The qui tam complaints were unsealed on
    February 19, 2009. The U.S. government has intervened
    in one of the qui tam actions, and filed a complaint against
    Scios and the Company in June 2009. Scios and
    Johnson   Johnson filed a motion to dismiss the qui
    tam complaint filed by the government, and that motion was
    denied. The criminal investigation is continuing and discussions
    are underway in an effort to settle this matter. Whether a
    settlement can be reached and on what terms is uncertain.

NOTES
    TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

69

In September 2005, the Company received a subpoena from the
    U.S. Attorney s Office, District of Massachusetts,
    seeking documents related to sales and marketing of eight drugs
    to Omnicare, Inc., (Omnicare) a manager of pharmaceutical
    benefits for long-term care facilities. The Company s
    subsidiaries involved responded to the subpoena. Several
    employees of the Company s pharmaceutical subsidiaries were
    subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury in connection with
    this investigation. In April 2009, the Company was served with
    the complaints in two civil qui tam cases related to marketing
    of prescription drugs to Omnicare. On January 15, 2010, the
    government filed a complaint intervening in the cases. The
    complaint asserts claims under the federal False Claims Act and
    a related state law claim in connection with the marketing of
    several drugs to Omnicare. The complaints allege that
    Johnson   Johnson provided Omnicare with rebates and
    other alleged kickbacks, and in so doing, caused Omnicare to
    file false claims with Medicaid and other government programs.
    Subsequently, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Virginia, and
    Kentucky, and the States of California and Indiana intervened in
    the action. The Company s motion to dismiss the
    government s and relators complaints, the
    government s and relators  oppositions, and the
    Company s reply brief have been filed. A hearing on the
    Company s motion to dismiss was held on October 7,
    2010. The court has not ruled on the motion.

In November 2005, a lawsuit was filed under seal against the
    Company, along with codefendants McKesson Corporation and
    Omnicare, Inc., by a former employee in the United States
    District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, United
    States ex rel. Scott Bartz v. Ortho McNeil Pharmaceutical,
    Inc., et al. After investigation, the United States declined to
    intervene. The case was subsequently unsealed, and the Company
    was served with the operative complaint on January 3, 2011.
    The complaint alleges that Defendants engaged in various
    improper transactions that were allegedly designed to report
    false prescription drug prices to the federal government in
    order to reduce the Company s Medicaid rebate obligations.
    The complaint further alleges that the Company improperly
    retaliated against the Plaintiff for having raised these
    allegations internally. The complaint alleges a variety of
    causes of action under the federal False Claims Act and
    corresponding state and local statutes. The Company has not yet
    responded to the complaint, but anticipates filing a motion to
    dismiss.

In February 2006, the Company received a subpoena from the
    U.S. Securities   Exchange Commission (SEC)
    requesting documents relating to the participation by several
    Johnson   Johnson subsidiaries in the United Nations
    Iraq Oil for Food Program. The subsidiaries are cooperating with
    the SEC and U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ).

In February 2007, the Company voluntarily disclosed to the DOJ
    and the SEC that subsidiaries outside the United States are
    believed to have made improper payments in connection with the
    sale of medical devices in two small-market countries, which
    payments may fall within the jurisdiction of the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act (FCPA). In the course of continuing dialogues with
    the agencies, other issues potentially rising to the level of
    FCPA violations in additional markets have been brought to the
    attention of the agencies by the Company. The Company has
    provided and will continue to provide additional information to
    the DOJ and SEC, and will cooperate with the agencies 
    reviews of these matters. Law enforcement agencies of a number
    of other countries are also pursuing investigations of matters
    voluntarily disclosed by the Company to the DOJ and SEC.
    Discussions are underway in an effort to resolve these matters,
    and the Iraq Oil for Food matter referenced above, but whether
    agreement can be reached, and on what terms, is uncertain.

In May 2007, the New York State Attorney General issued a
    subpoena seeking information relating to the marketing and
    safety of
    PROCRIT   .

    The Company has responded to these requests.

In April 2007, the Company received two subpoenas from the
    Office of the Attorney General of the State of Delaware. The
    subpoenas seek documents and information relating to nominal
    pricing agreements. For purposes of the subpoenas, nominal
    pricing agreements are defined as agreements under which the
    Company agreed to provide a pharmaceutical product for less than
    ten percent of the Average Manufacturer Price for the product.
    The Company responded to these requests.

In March 2008, the Company received a letter request from the
    Attorney General of the State of Michigan. The request seeks
    documents and information relating to nominal price
    transactions. The Company responded to the request.

In June 2008, the Company received a subpoena from the United
    States Attorney s Office for the District of Massachusetts
    relating to the marketing of biliary stents by the
    Company s Cordis subsidiary. Cordis is cooperating in
    responding to the subpoena. A False Claims Act complaint was
    filed in Dallas relating to similar issues. The
    U.S. Department of Justice and several states have declined
    to intervene at this time. A motion to dismiss the Texas qui tam
    case is pending.

In April 2009, the Company received a HIPPA subpoena from the
    U.S. Attorney s Office for the District of
    Massachusetts (Boston) seeking information regarding the
    Company s financial relationship with several
    psychiatrists. The Company has responded to this request.

In April 2009, Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. (OCD) received a
    grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice,
    Antitrust Division, requesting documents and information for the
    period beginning September 1, 2000 through the present,
    pertaining to an investigation of alleged violations of the
    antitrust laws in the blood reagents industry. The Company
    complied with the subpoena. In November 2010, the Antitrust
    Division provided notice that it has closed its investigation.
    In the weeks following the public announcement that OCD had
    received a subpoena from the Antitrust Division, multiple class
    action complaints were filed. The various cases were
    consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the Eastern District of
    Pennsylvania.

In May 2009, the New Jersey Attorney General issued a subpoena
    to DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc., seeking information regarding the
    financial interest of clinical investigators who performed
    clinical studies for DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. and DePuy Spine,
    Inc. DePuy Orthopaedics has responded to these requests.

In May 2010, the Company received a letter from the United
    States House of Representatives  Committee on Oversight and
    Government Reform (Committee) requesting information and
    documents regarding the April 2010 recall of various
    infants  and children s liquid products by McNeil
    Consumer Healthcare Division of McNEIL-PPC, Inc. (McNeil
    Consumer Healthcare). The Company produced documents and other
    information in response to these requests. In May 2010, the
    Committee conducted a public hearing. Thereafter, the Company
    received additional information requests from the Committee,
    including requests regarding the recall of certain Motrin
    products by McNeil Consumer Healthcare. The Company produced
    documents and other information in response to these requests.
    The Committee held another public hearing on September 30,
    2010, and the Company continues to cooperate fully with the
    Committee s ongoing information requests.

In addition, McNeil Consumer Healthcare, and certain affiliates
    including Johnson   Johnson ( the
    Companies ), received grand jury subpoenas from the United
    States Attorney s Office for the Eastern District of
    Pennsylvania requesting documents broadly relating to recent
    recalls of various products of McNeil Consumer Healthcare, and
    the FDA inspections of the Fort Washington, Pennsylvania
    and Lancaster, Pennsylvania manufacturing facilities. In
    addition, the government has served McNEIL-PPC Inc. with a Civil
    Investigative Demand seeking records relevant to its
    investigation to determine if there was a violation of the False
    Claims Act. The Companies are cooperating with the United States
    Attorney s Office in responding to these subpoenas.

The Companies have also received Civil Investigative Demands
    (CIDs) from multiple State Attorneys General Offices broadly
    relating to the McNeil recall issues. The Companies continue to
    produce documents in response to these CIDs and otherwise
    cooperate with these inquiries. On January 12, 2011, the
    Oregon Attorney General filed a civil complaint against
    Johnson   Johnson, McNEIL-PPC, Inc, and McNeil
    Healthcare, LLC in state court alleging civil violations of the
    Oregon unlawful trade practices act relating to an earlier
    recall of a McNeil OTC product. The defendants intend to seek
    dismissal of this civil complaint.

Furthermore, a lawsuit was filed in September 2010 by a
    shareholder in the United States District Court for the District
    of New Jersey: Monk v. Johnson   Johnson. The
    complaint seeks class certification based upon the anti-fraud
    provisions of the federal securities laws related to the McNeil
    manufacturing facilities. More specifically, this complaint
    alleges that the Companies and certain individuals, including
    officers and employees, failed to disclose that a number of
    manufacturing facilities were failing to maintain current good
    manufacturing practices (cGMPs) and, that as a result, the price
    of the Company s stock has declined significantly.

Multiple complaints seeking class action certification related
    to the McNeil recalls have been filed in the United States
    District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, the
    Northern District of Illinois, the Central District of
    California, and the Southern District of Ohio. These consumer
    complaints allege generally that purchasers of various McNeil
    medicines are owed monetary damages and penalties because they
    paid premium prices for defective medications rather than less
    expensive alternative medications. Each complaint seeks
    certification of a nation-wide class of purchasers of these
    medicines. On October 8, 2010, the Judicial Panel on
    Multidistrict Litigation consolidated these consumer complaints:
    Haviland v. McNeil (E.D. Pa.); Smith v. McNeil (N.D.
    Ill.); Burrell v. McNeil (N.D. Ill.); DeGroot v.
    McNeil (N.D. Ill.); Michaud v. McNeil, (N.D. Ill.);
    Nguyen v. McNeil (N.D. Ill.); Roberson v. McNeil (N.D.
    Ill.); Rivera v. Johnson   Johnson (C.D. Cal.),
    and Coleman v. McNeil (S.D. Ohio) for pretrial proceedings
    in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
    Pennsylvania. Plaintiffs filed a  Consolidated Amended
    Civil Consumer Class Action Complaint  (CAC) naming
    additional parties and claims on January 12, 2011.
    Defendants  currently intend to file a motion to dismiss
    the CAC, which motion will be filed on March 2, 2011, and
    is scheduled to be heard on May 10, 2011.

In recent years the Company has received numerous requests from
    a variety of United States Congressional Committees to produce
    information relevant to ongoing congressional inquiries. It is
    the Company s policy to cooperate with these inquiries by
    producing the requested information.

With respect to all the above matters, the Company and its
    subsidiaries are vigorously contesting the allegations asserted
    against them and otherwise pursuing defenses to maximize the
    prospect of success. The Company and its subsidiaries involved
    in these matters continually evaluate their strategies in
    managing these matters and, where appropriate, pursue
    settlements and other resolutions where those are in the best
    interest of the Company.

The Company is also involved in a number of patent, trademark
    and other lawsuits incidental to its business.

The ultimate legal and financial liability of the Company in
    respect to all claims, lawsuits and proceedings referred to
    above cannot be reasonably estimated. However, in the
    Company s opinion, based on its examination of these
    matters, its experience to date and discussions with counsel,
    the ultimate outcome of legal proceedings, net of liabilities
    accrued in the Company s balance sheet, is not expected to
    have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial
    position, although the resolution in any reporting period of one
    or more of these matters could have a material impact on the
    Company s results of operations and cash flows for that
    period.

In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company announced global
    restructuring initiatives designed to strengthen the
    Company s position as one of the world s leading
    global health care companies. This program will allow the
    Company to invest in new growth platforms; ensure the successful
    launch of its many new products and continued growth of its core
    businesses; and provide flexibility to adjust to the changed and
    evolving global environment.

During the fiscal fourth quarter of 2009, the Company recorded
    $1.2 billion in related pre-tax charges, of which
    approximately $830 million of the pre-tax restructuring
    charges are expected to require cash payments. The
    $1.2 billion of restructuring charges consists of severance
    costs of $748 million, asset write-offs of
    $362 million and $76 million related to leasehold and
    contract obligations. The $362 million of asset write-offs
    relate to inventory of $113 million (recorded in cost of
    products sold), property, plant and equipment of
    $107 million, intangible assets of $81 million and
    other assets of $61 million. Additionally, as part of this
    program the Company plans to eliminate approximately 7,500
    positions, of which approximately 5,000 have been eliminated
    since the restructuring was announced.

The following table summarizes the severance charges and the
    associated spending for the fiscal year ended 2010:

*  

Cash outlays for severance are expected to be substantially paid
    out over the next 12 months in accordance with the
    Company s plans and local laws. 

For additional information on the restructuring as it relates to
    the segments, see Note 18.

NOTES
    TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

71

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the
    Shareholders and Board of Directors of Johnson  
    Johnson:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and
    the related consolidated statements of earnings, statements of
    equity, and statements of cash flows present fairly, in all
    material respects, the financial position of Johnson  
    Johnson and its subsidiaries ( the Company ) at
    January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010, and the results
    of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended January 2, 2011 in conformity
    with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
    States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained,
    in all material respects, effective internal control over
    financial reporting as of January 2, 2011, based on
    criteria established in  Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The
    Company s management is responsible for these financial
    statements, for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
    accompanying  Management s Report on Internal Control
    over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express
    opinions on these financial statements and on the Company s
    internal control over financial reporting based on our
    integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with
    the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
    perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
    the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
    whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
    maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial
    statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence
    supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
    statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
    significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
    overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal
    control over financial reporting included obtaining an
    understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
    assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
    and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
    internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
    included performing such other procedures as we considered
    necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
    provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

As discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts
    for business combinations in 2009.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

February 24, 2011

72

Management s
    Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
    management is required to assess the effectiveness of the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
    the end of each fiscal year and report, based on that
    assessment, whether the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting is effective.

Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and
    maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
    The Company s internal control over financial reporting is
    designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability
    of the Company s financial reporting and the preparation of
    external financial statements in accordance with generally
    accepted accounting principles.

Internal controls over financial reporting, no matter how well
    designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, internal control
    over financial reporting determined to be effective can provide
    only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement
    preparation and may not prevent or detect all misstatements.
    Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
    future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Company s management has assessed the effectiveness of
    the Company s internal control over financial reporting as
    of January 2, 2011. In making this assessment, the Company
    used the criteria established by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in
     Internal Control-Integrated Framework.  These
    criteria are in the areas of control environment, risk
    assessment, control activities, information and communication,
    and monitoring. The Company s assessment included extensive
    documenting, evaluating and testing the design and operating
    effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting.

Based on the Company s processes and assessment, as
    described above, management has concluded that, as of
    January 2, 2011, the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting was effective.

The effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting as of January 2, 2011 has been audited
    by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, as stated in their report, which appears herein.

William C. Weldon

Dominic J. Caruso

Chairman, Board of Directors,

Vice President, Finance,

and Chief Executive Officer

and Chief Financial Officer

73

Summary
    of Operations and Statistical Data
     2000-2010   

(1)  

Also included in cost of materials and services category.

(2)   

Includes taxes on income, payroll, property and other business
    taxes.

74

SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS AND STATISTICAL DATA

Set forth below are line graphs comparing the cumulative total
    shareholder return on the Company s Common Stock for
    periods of five years and ten years ending December 31,
    2010, against the cumulative total return of the
    Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index, the
    Standard   Poor s Pharmaceutical Index and the
    Standard   Poor s Health Care Equipment Index.
    The graphs and tables assume that $100 was invested on
    December 31,2005 and December 31, 2000 in each of the
    Company s Common Stock, the Standard  
    Poor s 500 Stock Index, the Standard  
    Poor s Pharmaceutical Index and the Standard  
    Poor s Health Care Equipment Index and that all dividends
    were reinvested.

SHAREHOLDER
    RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPHS

75

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 5
 y86310kexv21.htm
 EX-21

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21  

SUBSIDIARIES  

Johnson   Johnson, a New Jersey corporation, had the
    domestic and international subsidiaries shown below as of
    January 2, 2011. Certain U.S. subsidiaries and
    international subsidiaries are not named because they were not
    significant in the aggregate. Johnson   Johnson has no
    parent.

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

U.S. Subsidiaries: 

Acclarent, Inc. 

Delaware

Advanced Sterilization Products Services Inc. 

New Jersey

Advanced Technologies and Regenerative Medicine, LLC

Delaware

ALZA Corporation

Delaware

ALZA Development Corporation

California

ALZA Land Management, Inc. 

Delaware

Animas Corporation

Delaware

Biosense Webster, Inc. 

California

Centocor Biologics, LLC

Pennsylvania

Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc. 

Pennsylvania

Centocor Ortho Biotech Products, L.P. 

New Jersey

Centocor Ortho Biotech Services LLC

New Jersey

Centocor Research   Development, Inc. 

Pennsylvania

CNA Development LLC

Delaware

Codman   Shurtleff, Inc. 

New Jersey

Conor Medsystems, LLC

Delaware

Cordis Corporation

Florida

Cordis International Corporation

Delaware

Cordis LLC

Delaware

Cougar Biotechnology, Inc. 

Delaware

Crescendo Pharmaceuticals Corporation

Delaware

DePuy, Inc. 

Delaware

DePuy Mitek, Inc. 

Massachusetts

DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. 

Indiana

DePuy Products, Inc. 

Indiana

DePuy Spine, Inc. 

Ohio

DePuy Spine Sales Limited Partnership

Massachusetts

Diabetes Diagnostics, Inc. 

Delaware

Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. 

Ohio

Ethicon Endo-Surgery, LLC

Delaware

Ethicon Endo-Surgery Services, L.P. 

Texas

Ethicon, Inc. 

New Jersey

Ethicon LLC

Delaware

GUH Corporation

Delaware

HealthMedia, Inc. 

Michigan

Human Performance Institute, Inc. 

Florida

Innovational Holdings, LLC

Delaware

ISO Holding Corp. 

Delaware

J J Holdings (Nevada), Inc. 

Nevada

Janssen Alzheimer Immunotherapy Research  
    Development, LLC

Delaware

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

Janssen Global Services, LLC

New Jersey

Janssen Ortho LLC

Delaware

Janssen Supply Group, LLC

Pennsylvania

JJHC, LLC

Delaware

JNJ International Investment LLC

Delaware

Johnson   Johnson Consumer Companies, Inc. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Development Corporation

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Finance Corporation

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Health Care Systems Inc. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson International

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Japan Inc. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson   Merck Consumer
    Pharmaceuticals Co. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson (Middle East) Inc. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Pharmaceutical Research  
    Development, L.L.C. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Sales and Logistics Company, LLC

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Services, Inc. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Urban Renewal Associates

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Vision Care, Inc. 

Florida

Joint Medical Products Corporation

Delaware

JOM Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. 

Delaware

LifeScan, Inc. 

California

LifeScan LLC

Delaware

LifeScan Products, LLC

Delaware

LuMend, Inc. 

Delaware

McNeil Consumer Healthcare Latin America LLC

Delaware

McNeil Healthcare LLC

Delaware

McNeil LA LLC

Delaware

McNeil Nutritionals, LLC

Delaware

McNEIL-PPC, Inc. 

New Jersey

Mentor Minnesota Inc. 

Delaware

Mentor Texas L.P. 

Delaware

Micrus Endovascular Corporation

Delaware

Middlesex Assurance Company Limited

Vermont

Neutrogena Corporation

Delaware

Nitinol Development Corporation

California

Noramco, Inc. 

Georgia

OMJ Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

Delaware

Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. 

Delaware

Ortho Biologics LLC

Delaware

Ortho Biotech Holding LLC

Delaware

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. 

New York

Ortho-McNeil Finance Co. 

Florida

Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

Pennsylvania

Patriot Pharmaceuticals, LLC

Pennsylvania

Rutan Realty LLC

New Jersey

Scios Inc. 

Delaware

SurgRx, Inc. 

Delaware

TERAMed Corporation

Delaware

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

Therakos, Inc. 

Florida

Therapeutic Discovery Corporation

Delaware

The Tylenol Company

New Jersey

Veridex, LLC

Delaware

International Subsidiaries: 

Apsis

France

Beijing Dabao Cosmetics Co., Ltd. 

China

Biosense Webster (Israel) Ltd. 

Israel

Cilag Advanced Technologies GmbH

Switzerland

Cilag AG

Switzerland

Cilag GmbH International

Switzerland

Cilag Holding AG

Switzerland

Cilag Pharmaceuticals GmbH

Switzerland

Cordis

France

Cordis Cashel

Ireland

Cordis de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Cordis Europa N.V. 

Netherlands

Cordis Medizinische Apparate GmbH

Germany

DePuy France

France

DePuy International Limited

United Kingdom

DePuy International (Holdings) Limited

United Kingdom

DePuy (Ireland)

Ireland

DePuy Mitek Sarl

Switzerland

DePuy Motion Sarl

Switzerland

DePuy Orthopadie GmbH

Germany

DePuy Spine Sarl

Switzerland

DePuy UK Holdings Limited

United Kingdom

EES Holdings de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico

Ethicon

France

Ethicon Ireland

Ireland

Ethicon PR Holdings

Ireland

Ethicon Sarl

Switzerland

Ethicon Women s Health   Urology Sarl

Switzerland

Ethnor del Istmo S.A. 

Panama

Ethnor Farmaceutica, S.A. 

Venezuela

FMS Future Medical System SA

Switzerland

GMED Healthcare BVBA

Belgium

High Wycombe Property Management Limited

United Kingdom

Janssen Alzheimer Immunotherapy

Ireland

Janssen Alzheimer Immunotherapy (Holding) Limited

Ireland

Janssen Biologics B.V. 

Netherlands

Janssen Biologics (Ireland)

Ireland

Janssen Cilag Farmaceutica S.A. 

Argentina

Janssen-Cilag

France

Janssen-Cilag AB

Sweden

Janssen-Cilag AG

Switzerland

Janssen-Cilag A/S

Denmark

Janssen-Cilag B.V. 

Netherlands

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

Janssen-Cilag de Mexico S de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico

Janssen-Cilag Farmaceutica, Lda. 

Portugal

Janssen-Cilag Farmaceutica Ltda. 

Brazil

Janssen-Cilag GmbH

Germany

Janssen-Cilag Ltd. 

Thailand

Janssen-Cilag Limited

United Kingdom

Janssen-Cilag NV

Belgium

Janssen-Cilag OY

Finland

Janssen-Cilag Pharmaceutical S.A.C.I. 

Greece

Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH

Austria

Janssen-Cilag Pty. Ltd. 

Australia

Janssen-Cilag, S.A. 

Spain

Janssen-Cilag, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Janssen-Cilag S.p.A. 

Italy

Janssen-Cilag s.r.o

Czech Republic

Janssen de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico

Janssen Inc. 

Canada

Janssen Korea Ltd. 

Korea

Janssen Pharmaceutica NV

Belgium

Janssen Pharmaceutica (Pty) Limited

South Africa

Janssen Pharmaceutical

Ireland

Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K. 

Japan

J.C. General Services CVBA

Belgium

J-C HealthCare Ltd. 

Israel

JHC Nederland B.V. 

Netherlands

Johnson   Johnson AB

Sweden

Johnson   Johnson AG

Switzerland

Johnson   Johnson (China) Investment Ltd. 

China

Johnson   Johnson (China) Ltd. 

China

Johnson   Johnson Consumer B.V. 

Netherlands

Johnson   Johnson Consumer Holdings France

France

Johnson   Johnson Consumer Services EAME Ltd. 

United Kingdom

Johnson   Johnson de Argentina S.A.C.e I. 

Argentina

Johnson   Johnson de Colombia S.A. 

Colombia

Johnson   Johnson de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Johnson   Johnson de Venezuela, S.A. 

Venezuela

Johnson   Johnson del Ecuador S.A. 

Ecuador

Johnson   Johnson del Peru S.A. 

Peru

Johnson   Johnson do Brasil Industria E Comercio de
    Produtos Para Saude Ltda. 

Brazil

Johnson   Johnson European Treasury Company

Ireland

Johnson   Johnson Finance Limited

United Kingdom

Johnson   Johnson Financial Services GmbH

Germany

Johnson   Johnson Gesellschaft m.b.H. 

Austria

Johnson   Johnson GmbH

Germany

Johnson   Johnson Group Holdings GmbH

Germany

Johnson   Johnson Hellas S.A. 

Greece

Johnson   Johnson Hemisferica S.A. 

Puerto Rico

Johnson   Johnson Holding GmbH

Germany

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

Johnson   Johnson (Hong Kong) Limited

Hong Kong

Johnson   Johnson Inc. 

Canada

Johnson   Johnson Industrial Ltda. 

Brazil

Johnson   Johnson International Financial Services
    Company

Ireland

Johnson   Johnson Kft. 

Hungary

Johnson   Johnson K. K. 

Japan

Johnson   Johnson Korea, Ltd. 

Korea

Johnson   Johnson Limited

India

Johnson   Johnson Limited

United Kingdom

Johnson   Johnson Limitada

Portugal

Johnson   Johnson LLC

Russia

Johnson   Johnson Luxembourg Finance Company Sarl

Luxembourg

Johnson   Johnson Management Limited

United Kingdom

Johnson   Johnson Medical (2004) Limited

United Kingdom

Johnson   Johnson Medical B.V. 

Netherlands

Johnson   Johnson Medical (China) Ltd. 

China

Johnson   Johnson Medical GmbH

Germany

Johnson   Johnson Medical Korea Limited

Korea

Johnson   Johnson Medical Limited

United Kingdom

Johnson   Johnson Medical Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Johnson   Johnson Medical NV

Belgium

Johnson   Johnson Medical Products GmbH

Austria

Johnson   Johnson Medical (Pty) Limited

South Africa

Johnson   Johnson Medical Pty Ltd. 

Australia

Johnson   Johnson Medical (Shanghai) Ltd. 

China

Johnson   Johnson Medical S.p.A. 

Italy

Johnson   Johnson Medical (Suzhou) Ltd. 

China

Johnson   Johnson Medikal Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited
    Sirketi

Turkey

Johnson   Johnson (New Zealand) Limited

New Zealand

Johnson   Johnson Nordic AB

Sweden

Johnson   Johnson Pacific Pty. Limited

Australia

Johnson   Johnson Pakistan (Private) Limited

Pakistan

Johnson   Johnson (Philippines), Inc. 

Philippines

Johnson   Johnson Poland Sp. z o.o

Poland

Johnson   Johnson, Prodaja medicinskih in
    farmacevtskih izdelkov, d.o.o

Slovenia

Johnson   Johnson (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa

Johnson   Johnson Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore

Johnson   Johnson Pty. Limited

Australia

Johnson   Johnson S.A. 

Spain

Johnson   Johnson, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Johnson   Johnson Sante Beaute France

France

Johnson   Johnson SDN. BHD. 

Malaysia

Johnson   Johnson S.E. d.o.o. 

Croatia

Johnson   Johnson S.p.A. 

Italy

Johnson   Johnson, s.r.o. 

Czech Republic

Johnson   Johnson, s.r.o. 

Slovakia

Johnson   Johnson Swiss Finance Company Limited

United Kingdom

Johnson   Johnson Taiwan Ltd. 

Taiwan

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

Johnson   Johnson (Thailand) Ltd. 

Thailand

Johnson   Johnson Vision Care (Ireland)

Ireland

Johnson and Johnson Sihhi Malzeme Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited
    Sirkett

Turkey

Laboratoires Polive

France

Latam International Investment Company

Ireland

Latam Properties Holdings

Ireland

Lifescan Canada Ltd. 

Canada

Lifescan Scotland Limited

United Kingdom

McNeil AB

Sweden

McNeil Consumer Healthcare GmbH

Germany

McNeil Denmark ApS

Denmark

McNeil Esbjerg ApS

Denmark

McNeil GmbH   Co. oHG

Germany

McNeil Healthcare (UK) Limited

United Kingdom

McNeil Manufacturing Pty Ltd. 

Australia

McNeil Products Limited

United Kingdom

McNeil Sweden AB

Sweden

Medos International Sarl

Switzerland

Medos Sarl

Switzerland

Mentor Medical Systems C.V. 

Netherlands

Micrus Endovascular SA

Switzerland

OBTECH Medical Sarl

Switzerland

OMJ Ireland

Ireland

OMJ Manufacturing

Ireland

OMJ PR Holdings

Ireland

Omrix Biopharmaceuticals Ltd. 

Israel

Omrix Biopharmaceuticals S.A. 

Belgium

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics

France

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics

United Kingdom

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics GmbH

Germany

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics K.K. 

Japan

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics NV

Belgium

P.T. Johnson   Johnson Indonesia

Indonesia

RespiVert Ltd. 

United Kingdom

Shanghai Johnson   Johnson Limited

China

Shanghai Johnson   Johnson Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. 

China

Tasmanian Alkaloids Pty. Ltd. 

Australia

Tibotec Pharmaceuticals

Ireland

Tibotec-Virco Comm. VA

Belgium

Tibotec-Virco Virology BVBA

Belgium

Turnbuckle Investment Company

Ireland

Vania Expansion

France

Xian-Janssen Pharmaceutical Ltd. 

China

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 6
 y86310kexv23.htm
 EX-23

exv23 

EXHIBIT 23  

CONSENT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
    Registration Statements on
     Form S-8 
     (No. 333-163857, 
     333-129542, 
     333-124785, 
     333-106007, 
     333-104828, 
     333-96541, 
     333-87736, 
     333-67370, 
     333-59380, 
     333-39238, 
     333-26979, 
     33-57583, 
     33-52252, 
     33-40294, 
     33-32875) 
    and
     Form S-3 
     (No. 333-149632, 
     333-67020, 
     333-91349) 
    of Johnson   Johnson of our report dated
    February 24, 2011 relating to the financial statements and
    the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
    which appears in the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is
    incorporated in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report
    dated February 24, 2011 relating to the financial statement
    schedule, which appears in this
     Form 10-K. 

/s/   PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP 

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

February 24, 2011

</EX-23>

<EX-31.A>
 7
 y86310kexv31wa.htm
 EX-31.A

exv31wa 

EXHIBIT 31(a)  

CERTIFICATION
    OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
    PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT  

I, William C. Weldon, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2011 (the
     report ) of Johnson   Johnson (the
     Company 

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not
    contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state
    a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
    of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements,
    and other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and
    for, the periods presented in this report;

4.  The Company s other certifying officer(s) and
    I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act Rules
     13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the Company and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the Company, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting,
    or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the Company s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the Company s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control
    over financial reporting; and

5.  The Company s other certifying officer(s) and
    I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
    internal control over financial reporting, to the Company s
    auditors and the audit committee of the Company s board of
    directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    Company s ability to record, process, summarize and report
    financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   William
    C. Weldon 

William C. Weldon

Chief Executive Officer 

Date: February 22, 2011

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 8
 y86310kexv31wb.htm
 EX-31.B

exv31wb 

EXHIBIT 31(b)  

CERTIFICATION
    OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
    PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT  

I, Dominic J. Caruso, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2011 (the
     report ) of Johnson   Johnson (the
     Company 

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not
    contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state
    a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
    of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements,
    and other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and
    for, the periods presented in this report;

4.  The Company s other certifying officer(s) and
    I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act Rules
     13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the Company and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the Company, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting,
    or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the Company s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the Company s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control
    over financial reporting; and

5.  The Company s other certifying officer(s) and
    I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
    internal control over financial reporting, to the Company s
    auditors and the audit committee of the Company s board of
    directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    Company s ability to record, process, summarize and report
    financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   Dominic
    J. Caruso 

Dominic J. Caruso

Chief Financial Officer 

Date: February 17, 2011

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32.A>
 9
 y86310kexv32wa.htm
 EX-32.A

exv32wa 

EXHIBIT 32(a)  

CERTIFICATION
    OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
    PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT  

The undersigned, William C. Weldon, the Chief Executive Officer
    of Johnson   Johnson, a New Jersey corporation (the
     Company ), pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as
    adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002, hereby certifies that, to the best of my knowledge:

(1) the Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2011 (the
     Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934; and

(2) the information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company.

/s/   William
    C. Weldon 

William C. Weldon

Chief Executive Officer 

Dated: February 22, 2011

This certification is being furnished to the SEC with this
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
    and shall not, except to the extent required by such Act, be
    deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise
    subject to the liability of that section.

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 10
 y86310kexv32wb.htm
 EX-32.B

exv32wb 

EXHIBIT 32(b)  

CERTIFICATION
    OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
    PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT  

The undersigned, Dominic J. Caruso, the Chief Financial Officer
    of Johnson   Johnson, a New Jersey corporation (the
     Company ), pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as
    adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002, hereby certifies that, to the best of my knowledge:

(1) the Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2011 (the
     Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934; and

(2) the information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company.

/s/   Dominic
    J. Caruso 

Dominic J. Caruso

Chief Financial Officer 

Dated: February 17, 2011

This certification is being furnished to the SEC with this
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
    and shall not, except to the extent required by such Act, be
    deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise
    subject to the liability of that section.

</EX-32.B>

<EX-99>
 11
 y86310kexv99.htm
 EX-99

exv99 

EXHIBIT 99  

CAUTIONARY
    STATEMENT PURSUANT TO PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM 
    ACT OF 1995    SAFE HARBOR  FOR
    FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

The Company may from time to time make certain forward-looking
    statements in publicly-released materials, both written and
    oral. Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to
    historical or current facts and anticipate results based on
    management s plans that are subject to uncertainty.
    Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words
    such as  plans,   expects, 
     will,   anticipates,   estimates 
    and other words of similar meaning in conjunction with, among
    other things, discussions of future operations, financial
    performance, the Company s strategy for growth, product
    development, regulatory approvals, market position and
    expenditures.

Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations of
    future events. The Company cannot guarantee that any
    forward-looking statement will be accurate, although the Company
    believes that it has been reasonable in its expectations and
    assumptions. Investors should realize that if underlying
    assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties
    materialize, actual results could vary materially from the
    Company s expectations and projections. Investors are
    therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on any
    forward-looking statements. Furthermore, the Company does not
    undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result
    of new information or future events or developments.

Some important factors that could cause the Company s
    actual results to differ from the Company s expectations in
    any forward-looking statements are as follows:

Economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in
    interest rates and currency exchange rates and the potential
    effect of such fluctuations on revenues, expenses and resulting
    margins;

Competitive factors, including technological advances achieved
    and patents attained by competitors as well as new products
    introduced by competitors;

Challenges to the Company s patents by competitors or
    allegations that the Company s products infringe the
    patents of third parties, which could potentially affect the
    Company s competitive position and ability to sell the
    products in question and require the payment of past damages and
    future royalties. In particular, generic drug firms have filed
    Abbreviated New Drug Applications seeking to market generic
    forms of most of the Company s key pharmaceutical products,
    prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering those
    products. In the event that the Company is not successful in
    defending the resulting lawsuits, generic versions of the
    product at issue will be introduced, resulting in very
    substantial market share and revenue losses;

Financial distress and bankruptcies experienced by significant
    customers and suppliers that could impair their ability, as the
    case may be, to purchase the Company s products, pay for
    products previously purchased or meet their obligations to the
    Company under supply arrangements;

Changes in the behavior and spending patterns of purchasers of
    health care products and services, including delaying medical
    procedures, rationing prescription medications, reducing the
    frequency of physician visits and foregoing health care
    insurance coverage, as a result of a prolonged global economic
    downturn.

The impact on political and economic conditions due to terrorist
    attacks in the U.S. and other parts of the world or
    U.S. military action overseas, as well as instability in
    the financial markets which could result from such terrorism or
    military actions;

Interruptions of computer and communication systems, including
    computer viruses, that could impair the Company s ability
    to conduct business and communicate internally and with its
    customers;

Health care changes in the U.S. and other countries
    resulting in pricing pressures, including the continued
    consolidation among health care providers, trends toward managed
    care and health care cost containment, the shift towards
    governments becoming the primary payers of health care expenses
    and government laws and regulations relating to sales and
    promotion, reimbursement and pricing generally;

Government laws and regulations, affecting U.S. and
    international operations, including those relating to securities
    laws compliance, trade, monetary and fiscal policies, taxes,
    price controls, regulatory approval of

new products, licensing and patent rights, environmental
    protection, and possible drug reimportation legislation;

Competition in research, involving the development and the
    improvement of new and existing products and processes, is
    particularly significant and results from time to time in
    product and process obsolescence. The development of new and
    improved products is important to the Company s success in
    all areas of its business;

Challenges and difficulties inherent in product development,
    including the potential inability to successfully continue
    technological innovation, complete clinical trials, obtain
    regulatory approvals in the United States and
    internationally, gain and maintain market approval of products
    and the possibility of encountering infringement claims by
    competitors with respect to patent or other intellectual
    property rights which can preclude or delay commercialization of
    a product;

Significant litigation adverse to the Company including product
    liability claims, patent infringement claims and antitrust
    claims;

Increased scrutiny of the health care industry by government
    agencies and state attorneys general resulting in investigations
    and prosecutions carry the risk of significant civil and
    criminal penalties, including, but not limited to, debarment
    from government business;

Difficulties and delays in manufacturing that cause voluntary or
    involuntary business interruptions or shutdowns, product
    shortages, substantial modifications to our business practices
    and operations, withdrawals or suspensions of current products
    from the market, or possible civil penalties and criminal
    prosecution;

Product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost
    prohibitive or unavailable;

Product efficacy or safety concerns, whether or not based on
    scientific evidence, resulting in product withdrawals, recalls,
    regulatory action on the part of the FDA (or international
    counterparts) or declining sales;

The impact of business combinations, including acquisitions and
    divestitures, both by and for the Company, as well as externally
    in the pharmaceutical, medical devices and diagnostics and
    consumer industries;

The potential impact of climate change concerns on the design,
    manufacturing, marketing and sale of health care
    products; and

Issuance of new or revised accounting standards by the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange
    Commission.

The foregoing list sets forth many, but not all, of the factors
    that could impact upon the Company s ability to achieve
    results described in any forward-looking statements. Investors
    should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify
    all such factors and should not consider this list to be a
    complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. The
    Company has identified the factors on this list as permitted by
    the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

</EX-99>

<EX-101.INS>
 12
 jnj-20110102.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 13
 jnj-20110102.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 jnj-20110102_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 jnj-20110102_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 jnj-20110102_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 17
 jnj-20110102_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

