<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20101103_10-K_edgar_data_804328_0000950123-10-100207_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>18692757</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>341647</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4246492</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>402987</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5692062</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>7757237</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>55</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-10-100207.hdr.sgml : 20101103
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20101103171830
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-10-100207
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20100926
FILED AS OF DATE:		20101103
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20101103

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			QUALCOMM INC/DE
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000804328
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RADIO & TV BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT [3663]
		IRS NUMBER:				953685934
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-19528
		FILM NUMBER:		101162321

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5775 MOREHOUSE DR
		CITY:			SAN DIEGO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92121
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8585871121

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5775 MOREHOUSE DR
		CITY:			SAN DIEGO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92121

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 QSb8s/8WJVXiVkLNzkC9MQQ9iqyzHf0EON/DKaGhW2yXYK+6hzTiXhMRxDRSBUMz
 +L7XhMtZjVYHhU0WG43Y7Q==

 0000950123-10-100207.txt : 20101103

10-K
 1
 a57478e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

(Mark One)

For the fiscal year ended September 26, 2010 

OR 

For the transition period from                        to                        . 

Commission file number 0-19528 

QUALCOMM Incorporated 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (858) 587-1121 

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title of Each Class 

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered  

Common stock, $0.0001 par value

NASDAQ Stock Market LLC 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. YES     NO    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. YES     NO    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES     NO    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large
accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large Accelerated Filer    

Accelerated Filer    

Non-Accelerated Filer    

Smaller Reporting Company     

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act). YES     NO    

Table of Contents   

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates
of the registrant at March 28, 2010 was $67,115,795,559. * 

The
number of shares outstanding of the registrant s common stock
was 1,617,713,293 at
November 1, 2010.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

Portions of the registrant s Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A in connection with the registrant s 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders,
to be filed subsequent to the date hereof, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this
Report. Such Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
not later than 120 days after the conclusion of the registrant s fiscal year ended September 26,
2010.

*   
       
      Excludes the Common Stock held by executive
officers, directors and stockholders whose ownership exceeds 5% of the Common
Stock outstanding at March 28, 2010. This calculation does not reflect a
determination that such persons are affiliates for any other purposes. 

QUALCOMM INCORPORATED 
Form 10-K 
For the Fiscal Year Ended September 26, 2010 
Index 

Page  

PART I  

Item 1. Business  

1 

Overview 

1 

Wireless Telecommunications Market 

3 

Wireless Technologies 

4 

Operating Segments 

6 

Research and Development 

11 

Sales and Marketing 

11 

Competition 

11 

Patents, Trademarks and Trade Secrets 

11 

Corporate Responsibility 

12 

Employees 

13 

Available Information 

13 

Executive Officers 

13 

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

14 

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 

24 

Item 2. Properties 

25 

Item 3. Legal Proceedings 

26 

Item 4. (Removed and Reserved) 

27 

PART II  

Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities 

28 

Item 6. Selected Financial Data 

31 

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations 

32 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

44 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

46 

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure 

46 

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 

46 

Item 9B. Other Information 

47 

PART III  

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 

48 

Item 11. Executive Compensation 

48 

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters 

48 

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 

48 

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

48 

PART IV  

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

49 

EX-10.90    
     EX-21    
     EX-23.1    
     EX-31.1    
     EX-31.2    
     EX-32.1    
     EX-32.2    
     EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    

Table of Contents   

TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES 

QUALCOMM   , QCT-   , MSM , Snapdragon , Wireless Reach   Design ,
gpsOne   , Brew   , MediaFLO   , FLO , FLO TV , QPoint   ,
Gobi , Plaza , Xiam and QChat    are trademarks and/or service marks of QUALCOMM
Incorporated. QUALCOMM, QUALCOMM Enterprise Services , QES , QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies, QCT,
QUALCOMM Technology Licensing, QTL, QUALCOMM Wireless   Internet, QUALCOMM Wireless   Internet
Group, QWI, QUALCOMM Internet Services, QIS, QUALCOMM Government Technologies, QGOV, QUALCOMM MEMS
Technologies, QMT, QUALCOMM Technologies   Ventures, QUALCOMM MediaFLO Technologies, MFT, QUALCOMM
Global Trading, QGT, QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives, QSI, FLO TV and Spike are trade names of
QUALCOMM Incorporated. SWAGG  is a trademark of Firethorn Holdings, LLC. Firethorn    is a
registered trademark of Firethorn Holdings, LLC. Mirasol    is a registered trademark of
QUALCOMM MEMS Technologies, Inc.

cdmaOne  is a trademark of the CDMA Development Group, Inc. CDMA2000    is a
registered service mark and certification mark of the Telecommunications Industry Association.
Java    is a registered trademark and service mark of Sun Microsystems, Inc. Windows
Mobile    is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation. Web OS    is a
registered trademark of Palm Inc. Linux    is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds.
Android  and Google Chrome  are trademarks of Google Inc. Bluetooth      is a registered
trademark of Bluetooth SIG, Inc. iPhone      is a registered trademark of Apple, Inc.

All other trademarks, service marks and/or trade names appearing in this document are the
property of their respective holders.

Table of Contents   

In this document, the words  Qualcomm,   we,   our,   ours  and  us  refer only to QUALCOMM
Incorporated and its subsidiaries and not any other person or entity.

PART I 

Item 1. Business 

This Annual Report (including, but not limited to, the following section regarding
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) contains
forward-looking statements regarding our business, financial condition, results of operations and
prospects. Words such as  expects,   anticipates,   intends,   plans,   believes,   seeks, 
 estimates  and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify
forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking
statements in this Annual Report. Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the
development of new products, enhancements or technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other
statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements.

Although forward-looking statements in this Annual Report reflect our good faith judgment,
such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently,
forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results and
outcomes may differ materially from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the
forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in results
and outcomes include without limitation those discussed under the heading  Risk Factors  below, as
well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report. Readers are urged not to place undue
reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual
Report. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to
reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Annual Report. Readers are
urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Annual Report, which
attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business,
financial condition, results of operations and prospects.

We incorporated in 1985 under the laws of the state of California. In 1991, we reincorporated
in the state of Delaware. We operate and report using a 52-53 week fiscal year ending the last
Sunday in September. Our 52-week fiscal years consist of four equal quarters of 13 weeks each, and
our 53-week fiscal years consist of three 13-week fiscal quarters and one 14-week fiscal quarter.
The financial results for our 53-week fiscal years and our 14-week fiscal quarters will not be
exactly comparable to our 52-week fiscal years and our 13-week fiscal quarters. The fiscal years
ended September 26, 2010, September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008 all included 52 weeks.

Overview 

In 1989, we publicly introduced the concept that a digital communication technique called CDMA
could be commercially successful in cellular wireless communication applications. CDMA stands for
Code Division Multiple Access and is one of the main technologies currently used in digital
wireless communications networks (also known as wireless networks). CDMA and TDMA (Time Division
Multiple Access), of which Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) is the primary commercial
form, are the primary digital technologies currently used to transmit a wireless device user s
voice or data over radio waves using a public cellular wireless network. Because we led, and
continue to lead, the development and commercialization of CDMA technology, we own significant
intellectual property, including patents, patent applications and trade secrets, which applies to
all versions of CDMA, portions of which we license to other companies and implement in our own
products. The wireless communications industry generally recognizes that a company seeking to
develop, manufacture and/or sell products that use CDMA technology will require a patent license
from us.

We also continue our leading role in the development and commercialization of Orthogonal
Frequency Division Multiplexing Access (OFDMA)-based technologies for which we have substantial
intellectual property. Our CDMA licensees  sales of multimode CDMA and OFDMA devices are covered by
their existing CDMA license agreements with us. We have begun to license companies to make and sell
OFDMA products that do not also implement CDMA, and nine companies have royalty-bearing licenses
under our patent portfolio for use in such OFDMA products.

Our Revenues   .  We generate revenues by licensing portions of our intellectual property to
manufacturers of wireless products (such as mobile devices, also known as subscriber units, which
include handsets, other consumer devices and modem cards, and the infrastructure required to
establish and operate a wireless network). We receive licensing fees and royalties on products sold
by our licensees that incorporate our patented technologies. We also sell products and services,
which include:

1 

Table of Contents   

CDMA-based integrated circuits (also known as chips or chipsets) and Radio Frequency
(RF) and Power Management (PM) chips and system software used in mobile devices and in
wireless networks; 

Software products and services for content enablement across a wide variety of
platforms and devices for the wireless industry; 

Equipment, software and services used by companies, including those in the
transportation industry and governments, to wirelessly connect with their assets and
workforce; 

Software products and services that enable mobile commerce services; 

Services to wireless operators delivering multimedia content, including live
television, in the United States; and 

Software and hardware development services. 

Our Licensing Business.   We grant licenses to use portions of our intellectual property
portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and
sale of certain wireless products, and collect license fees and royalties in partial consideration
for such licenses.

Our Integrated Circuits Business.   We develop and supply CDMA-based integrated circuits and
system software for wireless voice and data communications, multimedia functions and global
positioning system products. We also design and create multimode and multiband integrated circuits
incorporating other wireless standards for roaming in global roaming markets. Our integrated
circuit products and system software are used in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones,
tablets, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers, data cards and infrastructure
equipment. The integrated circuits for wireless devices include the baseband Mobile Station Modem
(MSM), Mobile Data Modem (MDM), Qualcomm Single Chip (QSC), Qualcomm Snapdragon (QSD), RF, PM and
Bluetooth devices, as well as the system software that enables the other device components to
interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling
manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. These
integrated circuits for wireless devices and system software perform voice and data communication,
multimedia and global positioning functions, radio conversion between RF and baseband signals,
power management and peripheral connectivity. Our infrastructure equipment Cell Site Modem (CSM)
integrated circuits and system software perform the core baseband CDMA modem functionality in the
wireless operator s base station equipment providing wireless standards-compliant processing of
voice and data signals to and from wireless devices. Because of our broad and unique experience in
designing and developing CDMA-based products, we not only design the baseband integrated circuit,
but the supporting system as well, including the RF devices, PM devices and accompanying software
products. This approach enables us to optimize the performance of the wireless device with improved
product features, as well as the integration and performance of the network system. Our design of
the system allows CDMA systems and devices manufactured by our customers to come to market faster.
We provide our integrated circuits and system software, including reference designs and tools, to
many of the world s leading wireless device and infrastructure equipment manufacturers. We also
provide support to enable our customers to reduce the time required to design their products and
bring their products to market faster. We plan to add additional features and capabilities to our
integrated circuit products to help our customers reduce the costs and size of their products, to
simplify our customers  design processes and to enable more wireless devices and services.

Our Wireless Device Software and Related Services Business.   We provide software products and
services for the global wireless industry. Our Brew products and services enable wireless
operators, device manufacturers and software developers to provide over-the-air and pre-loaded
wireless applications and services. Our Plaza products and services enable wireless operators,
device manufacturers and publishers to create and distribute mobile content across a variety of
platforms and devices. We also offer Xiam wireless content discovery and recommendation products to
help wireless operators improve usage and adoption of digital content and services. We also provide
QChat, a push to talk product optimized for third generation (3G) networks, as well as QPoint,
which enables wireless operators to offer enhanced 911 (E-911) wireless emergency and other
location-based applications and services.

Our Asset Tracking and Services Business.   We design, manufacture and sell equipment, license
software and provide services to our customers to enable them to connect wirelessly with their
assets, products and workforce. We offer satellite- and terrestrial-based two-way wireless
connectivity and position location services to transportation and logistics fleets and other
enterprise companies to enable our customers to track the location and monitor the performance of
their assets, and the workflow of their personnel.

2 

Table of Contents   

Our Mobile Commerce Business  . In fiscal 2011, we expect to introduce a new product application
trademarked as SWAGG, which will be marketed on a standalone basis directly to consumers. SWAGG s
core features include purchase and gift of virtually stored-value gift cards delivered via mobile
devices. In addition, we provide a single, secure, certified application embedded on select
wireless devices, which enables financial institutions and merchants to deliver branded services to
consumers through the wireless devices.

Our FLO TV Business.   Our subsidiary, FLO TV Incorporated (FLO TV), currently offers its
service in the United States over our nationwide multicast network. We have commenced a
restructuring plan under which we expect to exit the current FLO TV service business.
Additionally, we continue to evaluate strategic options for the FLO TV business,
which include, but are not limited to, operating the FLO TV network under a new wholesale service
model; sale to, or joint venture with, a third party; and/or the sale of the spectrum licenses and
discontinuance of the operation of the network.

Our MediaFLO Technologies (MFT) division is comprised of the FLO Technology group, which
continues to develop our MediaFLO MDS and MediaFLO technology, and the FLO International group,
which markets MediaFLO for deployment outside of the United States. The market for mobile TV
remains nascent with numerous competing technologies and standards.

Our Display Business.   We continue to develop display technology for the full range of
consumer-targeted mobile products. Our interferometric modulator (IMOD) display technology, based
on a MEMS structure combined with thin film optics and sold under the  mirasol  brand, is expected
to provide performance, power consumption and cost benefits as compared to current display
technologies.

Wireless Telecommunications Market 

Use of wireless telecommunications devices has increased dramatically in the past decade.
According to Wireless Intelligence estimates as of November 1, 2010, the number of worldwide mobile
connections is expected to reach approximately 5.3 billion by the end of 2010 and almost 7.0
billion in 2014. Growth in the early days of wireless communications was driven by the need to make
voice calls in a mobile environment. More recently, increases in demand are primarily driven by the
desire to have access to data services in a mobile environment. This is evidenced by the continued
transition from 2G to 3G services. According to Wireless Intelligence, in March 2010, the industry
reached a significant milestone by surpassing one billion 3G connections. Furthermore, Wireless
Intelligence expects the number of global 3G connections to reach approximately 2.8 billion by
2014. There are several drivers for the growth in 3G:

Consumer awareness and desire for data services; 

Mature 3G networks with high data rates; 

Consumer demand for data centric smartphone devices; 

Emergence of new data devices; and 

Growth in emerging regions. 

The last couple of years have witnessed a significant increase in the consumer s awareness and
willingness to use mobile data services. Applications such as email, access to the mobile Internet,
downloading of videos and social networking are driving the demand for 3G services and more capable
phones.

According to the CDMA Development Group (CDG) and the Global mobile Suppliers Association
(GSA), approximately 85% of the world s wireless networks now support 3G, a sign that operators are
making network investments to address the growing demand for wireless data. Operators are
continuing to make network investments by upgrading their networks. According to the GSA,
approximately 99% of the global WCDMA operators have upgraded their networks to offer High Speed
Packet Access (HSPA) services. With support for higher data rates and increased capacity, networks
will evolve to keep up with the growing demand for wireless data.

The emergence of the mobile Internet is helping increase demand for 3G smartphones as the
ability to access data is simplified and enhanced when using a smartphone. In the early days of the
smartphone, these devices were designed primarily for high end business users. However, innovation
and competition are helping to drive a broader set of devices into the market that provide
compelling user experiences at consumer acceptable price points, which make such devices more
accessible by a larger portion of the subscriber base.

The need to stay connected anywhere, anytime is helping drive demand for data connectivity on
notebook and netbook computers with either embedded 3G connectivity or via an external 3G USB
modem. New device

3 

Table of Contents   

categories, such as e-readers, have also emerged over the last couple of years. These new
devices take advantage of the capabilities of 3G networks to download digital books, newspapers and
magazines anywhere. Other emerging device categories, such as connected media tablets, digital
picture frames and machine to machine communication, will help further drive global demand for 3G.

Demand for wireless voice and data services in emerging regions is helping to increase global
demand for 3G. Emerging regions still have relatively low penetration rates of wireless
telecommunications services. 3G provides an efficient way for operators to offer both voice and
data services to address these demands, and since fixed broadband penetration is very low in these
regions, 3G presents a cost effective means of providing broadband capabilities to consumers.
According to Informa Telecoms   Media, more than 50% of 3G handset shipments will go to emerging
regions in 2011.

Wireless Technologies 

The significant growth in the use of wireless devices worldwide, such as smartphones, and
demand for data services and applications requires constant innovation to further improve the user
experience, expand capacity and enable dense deployments of low power nodes, such as femtocells. To
meet these requirements, progressive generations of wireless telecommunications technology
standards have evolved. The use of wireless standards for mobile communications within individual
countries is generally determined by the telecommunication service providers operating in those
countries and, in some instances, local government regulations. Such determinations are typically
based on economic criteria and the service provider s evaluation of each technology s ability to
provide the features and functionality required for its business plan. More than two decades ago,
the European Community developed regulations requiring the use of the GSM standard, a TDMA-based,
2G technology. In addition, there are several versions of CDMA technology that have been adopted
worldwide as public cellular standards. The first version, known as cdmaOne, is a 2G cellular
technology that was first commercially deployed in the mid-1990s. The other subsequent versions of
CDMA are referred to as 3G technologies.

Second Generation.   Compared to first generation analog systems, 2G digital technology provided
for significantly enhanced efficiency within a fixed spectrum resulting in greatly increased voice
capacity. 2G technologies also enabled numerous enhanced services, but data services were generally
limited to low speed transmission rates. The main 2G digital cellular technologies in use today are
called cdmaOne or IS-95A/B, a technology largely developed and patented by us, and GSM, a form of
TDMA. Many GSM operators deployed 2G mobile packet data technologies, such as General Packet Radio
Service (GPRS) and Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution (EDGE) in areas serviced by GSM.

Third Generation.   As a result of demand for wireless networks that simultaneously carry both
high speed data and voice traffic, the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), a standards
setting organization, adopted the 3G standard known as IMT-2000, which encompasses six terrestrial
operating radio interfaces, each of which incorporates our intellectual property. Two are
TDMA-based, three of them are CDMA-based and the other is OFDMA-based. The three CDMA-based 3G
technologies are known commonly throughout the wireless industry as:

CDMA2000, including 1X (including revisions A through E), 1xEV-DO (EV-DO, or
Evolution Data Optimized) including revisions A through C, developed by 3 rd 
Generation Partnership Project Two (3GPP2); 

Wideband CDMA (WCDMA), also known as Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems
(UMTS), including High Speed Packet Access (HSPA), part of 3 rd  Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP) Release 5 and 6, and HSPA , part of 3GPP Release 7, 8, 9 and
beyond; and 

CDMA Time Division Duplex (TDD), of which there are currently two versions, Time
Division Duplex-CDMA (TD-CDMA) and Time Division-Synchronous CDMA (TD-SCDMA). Both are
part of the specifications developed by 3GPP. 

Even though the OFDMA technologies are part of the IMT-2000 standard, to differentiate them
from the 3G CDMA technologies, the OFDMA technologies are often called fourth generation (4G).

Some of the advantages of 3G CDMA technology over 2G technologies include increased network
capacity, improved user experience, compatibility with internet protocols, higher capacity for data
and faster access to data (Internet) and higher data throughput rates. CDMA2000 and WCDMA are
widely deployed today in wireless networks throughout the world. TD-SCDMA has been deployed in
China. EV-DO Release B in the CDMA2000 family was launched in 2010; Release 7 of HSPA  was launched
in 2009; and Release 8 of HSPA  was launched in 2010.

4 

Table of Contents   

CDMA2000 (1X, 1xEV-DO, EV-DO Revision A/B) networks are deployed by operators in several
markets that support both voice and a wide range of high-speed wireless data services. Enhancements
based upon the CDMA2000 Revision E Standard, called 1X Advanced, are being planned for CDMA2000 1X
that will further increase voice capacity. Standardization work has been completed on 1xEV-DO
Revision C, sometimes called DO-Advanced. Enhancements based upon these updated standards and
improved implementations have and will continue to be deployed in our products and wireless
networks to increase capacity and data rates.

GSM operators around the world, including those in the European Community and in the United
States, have focused primarily on the UMTS Frequency Division Duplexing (FDD) radio interface of
the IMT-2000 standard, known as WCDMA, for their network evolution. WCDMA is based on our CDMA
technology and incorporates many of our patented inventions (as do all of the CDMA radio interfaces
of the IMT-2000 standard). The majority of the world s wireless device and infrastructure
manufacturers (more than 115 and including all leading suppliers) have licensed our technology for
use in WCDMA products, enabling them to utilize this WCDMA mode of the 3G technology. To enable GSM
operators to deploy WCDMA in the 900MHz spectrum band, the European Union permitted IMT-2000
technologies, which include WCDMA, to be deployed in the lower frequency 900 MHz band. This is
called UMTS900.

The three ITU 3G CDMA radio interfaces are all based on the core principles of CDMA
technology, and our intellectual property rights include a valuable patent portfolio essential to
implementation of each of the 3G CDMA alternative standards and patents that are useful for
commercially successful product implementations. Generally, we have licensed substantially all of
our relevant patents to our CDMA subscriber and infrastructure equipment licensees.

These 3G CDMA versions (CDMA2000, WCDMA, and TD-SCDMA) require separate implementations that
are not interchangeable. While the fundamental core technologies are derived from CDMA and, in
addition to other features and functionality, are covered by our patents, their specifications each
require unique infrastructure products, network design, air interface protocols and management.
However, subscriber roaming amongst systems using different air interfaces is made possible through
multimode wireless devices.

The various revisions of the 3G CDMA specifications have significantly increased performance
capacity and data speeds. It is expected that future revisions of the 3G CDMA specifications will
provide further enhancements. Many wireless operators are planning to deploy technology based on
OFDMA to complement their existing 3G networks to provide additional capacity for data services
when they have access to new, wider spectrum band allocations. 3GPP has adopted a standard
specifying an OFDMA system called Long Term Evolution (LTE), and the Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers (IEEE) has specified 802.16 (WiMax). The OFDMA technologies that have been
standardized will support high data rates in up to 20 megahertz (MHz) channels. Since LTE typically
will be overlaid over existing 3G networks, seamless interoperability with 3G has been standardized
by 3GPP. WiMax was deployed ahead of LTE and targeted unpaired spectrum using a TDD radio
interface. LTE supports both paired spectrum, using the LTE FDD radio interface, and unpaired
spectrum, using the LTE TDD radio interface, and will also be able to address many of the unpaired
spectrum bands targeted by WiMax. Compared to WiMax, LTE is expected to achieve greater economy of
scale through its interoperability with 3G. Certain operators have selected WiMax because of
regulatory considerations specific to their networks and spectrum holdings. 3GPP Release 10 of LTE
and 802.16m, an upgrade of IEEE 802.16e, have both been approved by the ITU to become what are
called IMT-Advanced technologies, commonly referred to as 4G. They will support additional
features, higher bandwidths, and higher data rates than the previous versions. HSPA  continues to
evolve in parallel; 3GPP Release 8 of HSPA  introduces multicarrier operation with 10 MHz of
bandwidth that evolves to support up to 20 MHz of bandwidth in Release 10.

We have been actively pursuing research and development of OFDMA-based wireless communication
technologies. We believe that each of these standards incorporates our patented technologies. We
have nine companies with royalty-bearing licenses under our patent portfolio for use in single-mode
OFDMA products (i.e., OFDMA products that do not implement CDMA-based standards). Multimode
products that implement both OFDMA and CDMA technologies will, in most cases, be licensed under our
existing CDMA license agreements.

Our Engineering Resources.   We have significant engineering resources, including engineers with
substantial expertise in CDMA, OFDMA and a broad range of other technologies. Using these
engineering resources, we expect to continue to develop new versions of CDMA, OFDMA and other
technologies, develop alternative technologies for certain specialized applications (including
multicast), participate in the formulation of new wireless telecommunications standards and
technologies and assist in deploying wireless voice and data communications networks around the
world.

5 

Table of Contents   

Investments in New and Existing Products, Services and Technologies.   We continue to
invest in research and development in a variety of ways in an effort to extend the market for our
products and services.

We develop and commercialize 3G CDMA-based technologies and are working on commercializing the
OFDMA-based LTE technology. We actively support CDMA-based technologies, products and network
operations to grow our royalty revenues and integrated circuit and software revenues. From time to
time, we may also make acquisitions to meet certain technology needs, to obtain development
resources or to pursue new business opportunities.

We develop on our own, and with our partners, innovations that are integrated into our product
portfolio to further expand the market and enhance the value of our products and services. These
innovations are expected to enable our customers to improve the performance or value of their
existing services, offer these services more affordably and introduce revenue-generating broadband
data services ahead of their competition.

We make investments to provide our integrated circuit customers with chipsets that combine
multiple wireless technologies for use in consumer devices, including smartphones, consumer
electronics and other data devices. Our integrated chipsets often include multiple technologies,
including advanced multimode modems, application processors and graphics engines, as well as the
tools to connect these diverse pieces of technology. We continue to support multiple mobile client
software environments in our multimedia and convergence chipsets, such as Brew Mobile Platform,
Java, Windows Mobile, Web OS, Linux, Android and Google Chrome.

We continue to develop our IMOD display technology based on a micro-electro-mechanical-systems
(MEMS) structure combined with thin film optics and sell such displays under the  mirasol  brand.
Early-stage mirasol displays have been incorporated in a limited number of consumer devices. IMOD
display technologies may be included in the full range of consumer-targeted mobile products and are
expected to provide performance, power consumption and cost benefits as compared to current display
technologies. In June 2009, we commenced operations of a dedicated mirasol display fabrication
plant in Taiwan. Operation of this plant is outsourced to Cheng Uei Precision Industry Co., Ltd.
(also known as Foxlink), a developer and manufacturer of communications devices, computers and
consumer electronics.

We continue to develop our MediaFLO MDS and Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing
(OFDM)-based MediaFLO technology, including development to extend the
MDS operability to multiple air interfaces, to optimize the low-cost data
offload and delivery of multimedia content to
multiple wireless subscribers simultaneously, otherwise known as multicasting.

We make strategic investments in early-stage and other companies that we believe open new
markets for our technology, support the design and introduction of new products and services and/or
possess unique capabilities or technology. To the extent that such investments become liquid and
meet our strategic objectives, we intend to make regular periodic sales of our interests in these
investments that are recognized in investment income.

Operating Segments 

Consolidated revenues from international customers and licensees as a percentage of total
revenues were 95%, 94% and 91% in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During fiscal 2010,
29%, 27%, 12% and 9% of our revenues were from customers and licensees based in China, South Korea,
Taiwan and Japan, respectively, as compared to 23%, 35%, 8% and 11% during fiscal 2009,
respectively, and 21%, 35%, 5% and 14% during fiscal 2008, respectively. Revenues from two
customers, LG Electronics and Samsung Electronics, constituted a significant portion (each more
than 10%) of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008.

Qualcomm CDMA Technologies Segment (QCT).   QCT is a leading developer and supplier of
CDMA-based integrated circuits and system software for wireless voice and data communications,
multimedia functions and global positioning system products. QCT s integrated circuit products and
system software are used in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones, laptops, data modules,
handheld wireless computers, data cards and infrastructure equipment. These products provide
customers with advanced wireless technology, enhanced component integration and interoperability
and reduced time-to-market. QCT markets and sells products in the United States and internationally
through a global sales force. QCT products are sold to many of the world s leading wireless device
and infrastructure equipment manufacturers. In fiscal 2010, QCT shipped approximately 399 million
MSM integrated circuits for CDMA wireless devices worldwide, as compared to approximately 317
million and 336 million in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. QCT revenues comprised 61%, 59% and
60% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

QCT utilizes a fabless production business model, which means that we do not own or operate
foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made.
Integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers that have completed the assembly and final test
manufacturing processes. Die cut from silicon wafers are the

6 

Table of Contents   

essential components of all of our
integrated circuits and a significant portion of the total integrated circuit cost. We rely on
independent third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the
testing, of our integrated circuits. Our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most
of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. The majority of our
integrated circuits are purchased using a two-stage manufacturing business model, in which we
purchase die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party
manufacturers for back-end assembly and test services. We refer to this two-stage manufacturing
business model as Integrated Fabless Manufacturing (IFM). We also employ a turnkey model in which
our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated
circuits. Our fabless model provides us the flexibility to select suppliers that offer advanced
process technologies to manufacture, assemble and test our integrated circuits at a competitive
price.

Globalfoundries, IBM, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Company, Ltd. and United Microelectronics Corporation are the primary foundry suppliers for our
family of baseband integrated circuits. Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., Globalfoundries, IBM,
Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company,
Ltd. and United Microelectronics Corporation are the primary foundry suppliers for our family of
analog, RF and PM integrated circuits. Advanced Semiconductor Engineering Inc., Amkor Technology
Inc. and STATSChipPAC Ltd. are the primary back-end semiconductor assembly and test suppliers under
our IFM model.

QCT offers a broad portfolio of products, including both wireless device and infrastructure
integrated circuits, in support of CDMA2000 1X and 1xEV-DO, as well as the EV-DO Revision A and
EV-DO Revision B evolutions of CDMA 2000 technology. Leveraging our expertise in CDMA, we have also
developed integrated circuits for manufacturers and wireless operators deploying the WCDMA version
of 3G. More than 60 device manufacturers have selected our WCDMA products that support GSM/GPRS,
WCDMA, HSDPA, HSUPA and HSPA  for their devices. We have not commercially sold a CSM integrated
circuit product for WCDMA base station equipment. Recently, QCT also began shipping multimode
products for the LTE standard, which offer seamless backward compatibility to existing 3G
technologies.

Our gpsOne position location technology is in more than 500 million gpsOne enabled devices
sold worldwide. Compatible with all major air interfaces, our gpsOne technology is the industry s
only fully-integrated wireless baseband and assisted global positioning system product and has
enabled network operators to cost-effectively meet the FCC s E-911 mandate as well as offer a wide
range of services leveraging location data.

Our integrated circuit products span a broad range of market tiers, from entry-level solutions
for emerging markets up to the very high-end device tier. Our chipsets integrate unique
combinations of features, such as multi-megapixel cameras, videotelephony, streaming multimedia,
audio, 3D graphics, advanced position-location capabilities through integrated gpsOne technology
and peripheral connectivity, to enable a wide range of devices.

The Snapdragon family of chipset products is designed to enable our customers to develop
computing-centric devices that also offer a full range of wireless connectivity capabilities.
Integrating the baseband and a custom Qualcomm designed low-power high-performance microprocessor
into a single chip or package, the Snapdragon platform expands Qualcomm s reach beyond the
traditional wireless market by targeting not only the very high-end smartphone market but also the
smartbook and tablet categories of consumer products and other types of consumer electronics.

Gobi modules are designed to deliver embedded mobile wireless connectivity to notebook and
netbook computers. Supporting numerous air interfaces, Gobi modules also feature global positioning
system capabilities to allow notebook manufacturers to more easily offer greater connectivity with
their products. Gobi modules have also been used in e-readers, routers and other products that
benefit from 3G connectivity.

QCT also offers chipsets for WLAN and Bluetooth, complementary connectivity technologies to
its core 3G products. For WLAN, QCT offers the WCN1312 chip for handsets and other mobile devices.
QCT s Bluetooth chips support Bluetooth connectivity for handsets and headsets.

The market in which our QCT segment operates is intensely competitive. QCT competes worldwide
with a number of United States and international designers and manufacturers of semiconductors. As
a result of global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological changes and the
potential for further industry consolidation, we anticipate the market to remain very competitive.
We believe that the principal competitive factors for our products may include performance, level
of integration, quality, compliance with industry standards, price,
time-to-market, system cost, design and engineering capabilities, new product innovation and
customer support. We also compete in both single- and dual-mode environments against alternative
wireless communications technologies including, but not limited to, GSM/GPRS/EDGE, TDMA, TD-SCDMA
and WiMax.

7 

Table of Contents   

QCT s
current competitors include, but are not limited to, major companies
such as Broadcom, Freescale, Fujitsu, Icera,
Intel (through their recently announced agreement to acquire Infineon s Wireless Solutions
business), Marvell Technology, Mediatek, nVidia, Renesas Electronics, ST-Ericsson
(a joint venture between Ericsson Mobile Platforms and ST-NXP Wireless), Texas Instruments and VIA Telecom, as well as
major telecommunications equipment companies such as Ericsson, Matsushita, Motorola and Samsung,
who design at least some of their own integrated circuits and software for certain products. QCT
also faces competition from some early-stage companies. Our competitors may devote significantly
greater amounts of their financial, technical and other resources to market competitive
telecommunications systems or to develop and adopt competitive digital cellular technologies, and
those efforts may materially and adversely affect QCT. Moreover, competitors may offer more
attractive product pricing or financing terms than we do as a means of gaining access to the
wireless telecommunications market or customers.

Qualcomm Technology Licensing Segment (QTL).   QTL grants licenses or otherwise provides rights
to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights
essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, including,
without limitation, products implementing cdmaOne, CDMA2000, WCDMA, CDMA TDD (including TD-SCDMA),
GSM/GPRS/EDGE and/or OFDMA (e.g., LTE, WiMax) standards and their derivatives. QTL receives license
fees as well as ongoing royalties based on worldwide sales by licensees of products incorporating
or using our intellectual property. License fees are fixed amounts paid in one or more
installments. Ongoing royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale (i.e.,
licensee s) selling price of licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (e.g.,
certain shipping costs, packing costs, VAT, etc.). Revenues generated from royalties are subject to
quarterly and annual fluctuations. QTL revenues comprised 33%, 35% and 33% of total consolidated
revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

As part of our strategy to expand the marketplace and generate new and ongoing licensing
revenues, significant resources are allocated to develop leading-edge technology for the
telecommunications industry. In addition to licensing manufacturers of subscriber and network
equipment, we have made our essential CDMA and OFDMA patents available to competitors of our QCT
segment. We have entered into such agreements with QCT competitors, including Broadcom, Fujitsu,
Icera, Infineon (Intel recently announced an agreement to acquire
Infineon s Wireless Solutions business), Mediatek, NEC,  Renesas
Electronics,  Texas Instruments and VIA Telecom.
These agreements generally permit the
manufacture of CDMA-based and/or OFDMA-based integrated circuits
and/or baseband software for use on such integrated circuits. In exchange for these rights, we
receive rights that allow us to use certain intellectual property rights of these companies for
specified purposes. In every case, these agreements do not allow such integrated circuit suppliers
to pass through rights under Qualcomm s patents to their customers for use in wireless devices
manufactured or sold by such suppliers  customers, and such customers  sales of CDMA-, WCDMA- and
OFDMA-based cellular devices into which such suppliers  integrated circuits are incorporated
require separate licensing arrangements with us in order to use our patented technologies.

We face competition in the development of intellectual property for future generations of
digital wireless communications technology and services. On a worldwide basis, we currently compete
primarily with the GSM/GPRS/EDGE digital wireless telecommunications technologies. GSM has been
utilized extensively in Europe, much of Asia other than Japan and South Korea, and certain other
countries. To date, GSM has been more widely adopted than CDMA, however, CDMA technologies have
been adopted for all 3G wireless systems. In addition, most GSM operators have deployed GPRS, a
packet data technology, as a 2G bridge technology, and a number of GSM operators have deployed or
are expected to deploy EDGE, while considering the use of 3G WCDMA for their system. A limited
number of wireless operators have commercially deployed and other wireless operators have started
testing OFDMA technology (e.g., LTE, WiMax), a multi-carrier transmission technique not based on
CDMA technology, which divides the available spectrum into many carriers, with each carrier being
modulated at a low data rate relative to the combined rate for all carriers. According to Global
mobile Suppliers Association, in its October 2010 reports, 113 operators have committed to deploy
LTE networks, an OFDMA-based technology. We have invested in both the acquisition and the
development of OFDMA technology and intellectual property. We expect that upon the deployment of
OFDMA-based networks, the products implementing such technologies generally will be multimode and
will also implement CDMA-based technologies. The licenses granted under our existing CDMA license
agreements generally cover multimode CDMA/OFDMA devices, and our licensees are obligated to pay
royalties under their agreements for such devices. Further, nine companies have royalty-bearing
licenses under our patent portfolio for use in OFDMA products (that do not implement any CDMA-based
standards).

Qualcomm Wireless   Internet Segment (QWI).   QWI revenues comprised 6%, 6% and 7% of total
consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The four divisions aggregated
into QWI are:

Qualcomm Internet Services (QIS).  The QIS division offers a set of software products and
content enablement services to support and accelerate the growth and advancement of the wireless
data market. QIS offers Brew products and services for wireless applications development, device
configuration, application distribution and billing and payment. Brew services are offered by
operators worldwide, reaching a base of more than 250 million devices. In addition, QIS offers
Plaza products and services that enable mobile shopping experiences across various

8 

Table of Contents   

platforms and
devices. Plaza services are being provided to TIM Brazil, an operator with 40 million subscribers,
in support of their TIM AppShop offering and Am rica M vil, a service provider with 18 operator
properties in Latin America and a subscriber base of more than 210 million. Plaza currently
supports Telcel Mexico s widget solution and will soon expand services across additional Am rica
M vil operators in Latin America. We also offer Xiam wireless content discovery and recommendation
products to help wireless operators improve usage and adoption of digital content and services by
presenting relevant and targeted offers to customers across all digital channels. This
recommendations technology is offered as a standalone product, as well as integrated as part of our
core product offerings (Brew and Plaza), to help wireless operators spur wireless data growth. The
QChat product enables one-to-one (private) and one-to-many (group) push-to-talk calls over 3G
networks. The technology also allows over-the-air upgrades of mobile device software, management of
group membership by subscribers and ad-hoc creation of chat groups. QChat uses Voice over Internet
Protocol (VoIP) technologies, thereby sending voice information in digital form over IP-based data
networks in discrete packets rather than the traditional circuit-switched protocols of the public
switched telephone network. The QPoint product enables wireless operators to offer enhanced 911
(E-911) wireless emergency and other location-based applications and services.

The QIS division develops and sells business-to-business products and services to companies
worldwide, through a sales and marketing team headquartered in San Diego, California with offices
worldwide. The QIS sales and marketing strategy is to enter into agreements with companies in
target markets by providing comprehensive technology and services that combine wireless Internet,
data and voice capabilities. We have numerous current and emerging competitors for each of our
products and services whose relative degree of success in the markets they serve may adversely
impact our margins and market share. Competing offerings to the Brew and Plaza products include
device manufacturer application and widget stores, such as Apple s App Store for the iPhone
platform, operator-focused application and widget retailing and content distribution solutions and
direct-to-consumer mobile storefronts. Additionally, specialized software and service providers may
offer key components of a complete mobile content retailing product to operators or device
manufacturers seeking to build their own branded offerings internally. Our Xiam content discovery
and recommendations product faces competition from a small number of wireless operator-focused
product providers and from emerging Web-based content recommendations engines. Additionally, some
larger software providers and device manufacturers may attempt to build competing recommendations
solutions internally. Our QChat product competes with numerous push-to-talk services including
iDEN, which is used principally in the United States and Latin America. The push-to-talk services
market is nascent outside of the United States with several competing standards- and
non-standards-based technologies.

Qualcomm Enterprise Services (QES ). The QES division provides equipment, software and services
to enable companies to wirelessly connect with their assets and workforce. QES offers satellite-
and terrestrial-based two-way wireless connectivity and position location services to
transportation and logistics fleets and other enterprise companies that permit customers to track
the location and monitor performance of their assets, communicate with their personnel and collect
data. The QES division markets and sells products through a sales force, partnerships and
distributors based in the United States, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Canada. Through September
2010, we have shipped approximately 1,423,000 satellite- and terrestrial-based mobile information
units. Wireless transmissions and position tracking for satellite-based systems are provided by
using leased transponders on commercially available geostationary Earth orbit satellites. The
terrestrial-based systems use wireless digital and analog terrestrial networks for messaging
transmission and the global positioning system constellation for position tracking. We generate
revenues from sales of network products and terminals, and information and location-based service
and license fees.

In the United States and Mexico, we manufacture mobile communications equipment, sell related
software packages and provide ongoing messaging and maintenance services. Message transmissions for
operations in the United States are formatted and processed at our Network Management and Data
Center in San Diego, California, with a fully-redundant backup Network Management and Data Center
located in Las Vegas, Nevada.

Existing competitors of our QES division offering alternatives to our products are
aggressively pricing their products and services and could continue to do so in the future. In our
domestic markets, we face over ten key competitors to our satellite- and terrestrial-based mobile
fleet management and asset tracking products and services. Internationally, we face several key
competitors in Europe and Mexico. These competitors are offering new
value-added products and services similar in many cases to our existing or developing technologies.
Emergence of new competitors, particularly those offering low-cost terrestrial-based products and
current, as well as future, satellite-based systems, may impact margins and intensify competition
in new markets. Similarly, some original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) of trucks and truck
components are beginning to offer built-in, on-board communications and position location reporting
systems that may impact our margins and intensify competition in our current and

9 

Table of Contents   

new markets. We
are currently in discussions with some trucking manufacturers about using our products as their
embedded solution.

Qualcomm Government Technologies (QGOV).  The QGOV division provides development, hardware and
analytical expertise involving wireless communications technologies to United States government
(USG) agencies. QGOV adapts, integrates and ships CDMA2000 1X and EV-DO deployable base stations to
the USG. QGOV also developed and launched a Brew-based application providing encryption on mobile
devices. Based on the percentage of QGOV revenues to our total consolidated revenues, the USG is
not a major customer.

Firethorn.  In fiscal 2011, Firethorn expects to introduce a new product application
trademarked as SWAGG, which will be marketed on a standalone basis directly to consumers. SWAGG s
core features include access to merchant loyalty accounts and plastic gift card balances; purchase
and gift of virtually stored-value gift cards delivered via mobile devices; and access to relevant
and targeted offers from participating merchants. Distribution of SWAGG will initially be limited
to certain smartphones, and content will be sourced from merchants, primarily through open
platforms. In addition, Firethorn provides a single, secure, certified application embedded on
select wireless devices, which enables financial institutions and merchants to deliver branded
services to consumers through the wireless devices.

Qualcomm
Strategic Initiatives Segment (QSI).   QSI consists of our strategic investment activities,
including FLO TV Incorporated, our wholly-owned wireless multimedia operator subsidiary. As part of
our strategic investment activities, we intend to pursue various exit strategies at some point in
the future.

Strategic Investments.  We make strategic investments in early-stage and other companies and in
wireless spectrum, such as the BWA spectrum recently won in the auction in India, that we believe
will open new markets for CDMA- and OFDMA-based technologies, support the design and introduction
of new CDMA and OFDMA products and services for wireless voice and internet data communications or
possess unique capabilities or technology.

FLO TV.  Our FLO TV subsidiary currently operates a nationwide multicast network in the United
States based on our MediaFLO MDS and MediaFLO technology, which leverages the Forward Link Only
(FLO) air interface standard. FLO TV s network uses the 700 MHz spectrum for which we hold licenses
nationwide. We have commenced a restructuring plan under which we expect to exit the current FLO TV
service business. Additionally, we continue to evaluate strategic options
for the FLO TV business, which include, but are not limited to, operating the FLO TV network under
a new wholesale service model; sale to, or joint venture with, a third party; and/or the sale of
the spectrum licenses and the discontinuance of the operation of the network.

We continue to develop our MediaFLO technology to enable FLO TV and potentially other
international wireless operators to optimize the low cost delivery of multimedia content to
multiple wireless subscribers simultaneously. Our efforts to sell this technology internationally
are being conducted by a nonreportable segment (MFT), and not by QSI, as we do not intend to pursue
an exit strategy from the MFT business. Our MediaFLO technology is designed specifically to bring
broadcast quality video to mobile devices efficiently and cost effectively. The MediaFLO technology
operates on a dedicated broadcast network and is complementary to wireless operators currently
operating on CDMA2000 1xEV-DO, WCDMA or GSM networks.

We face indirect competition to our FLO TV products and services from wireless delivery of
streaming and downloadable video content via wireless operators, OEMs and other providers of mobile
video content, as well as from internet video content accessed through the mobile web browser.

Other Businesses.  

Qualcomm MEMS Technologies (QMT).  We continue to develop display technology for the full range
of consumer-targeted mobile products. QMT s IMOD display technology, based on a MEMS structure
combined with thin film optics and sold under the  mirasol  brand, is expected to provide
performance, power consumption and cost benefits as compared to current display technologies. With
the inclusion of color displays in all types of wireless devices, including models at the low end
of the market, the cost of the display has become an even more significant factor in the overall
cost of the device. An IMOD display should cost less to manufacture than a
comparable liquid crystal display because it requires fewer components and processing steps,
thus supporting advanced multimedia capabilities on all tiers of mobile devices.

MediaFLO Technologies (MFT).  MFT is comprised of the FLO Technology group, which continues to
develop our MediaFLO technology, and the FLO International group, which markets MediaFLO for
deployment outside of the United States. Global market awareness of MediaFLO technology has been
increasing through a number of successful trials in the United Kingdom, Taiwan, Hong Kong and
Malaysia.

10 

Table of Contents   

In addition, we are pursuing international opportunities to market and deploy MediaFLO
technology worldwide. The FLO air interface is an open, globally-recognized technology standardized
by the Telecommunications Industry Association and the European Telecommunications Standards
Institute. It is also recommended by the International Telecommunication Union s Radiocommunication
Sector for the broadcasting of multimedia and data applications.

Research and Development 

The wireless telecommunications industry is characterized by rapid technological change,
requiring a continuous effort to enhance existing products and develop new products and
technologies. Our research and development team has a demonstrated track record of innovation in
wireless communications technologies. Our research and development expenditures in fiscal 2010,
2009 and 2008 totaled approximately $2.5 billion, $2.4 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, and
as a result, continue to expand our intellectual property portfolio. Research and development
expenditures were primarily related to the development of integrated circuit products, next
generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies and other initiatives to support the acceleration of
advanced wireless products and services, including lower cost devices, the integration of wireless
with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork
products and technologies, third-party operating systems and services platforms. The technologies
supporting these initiatives may include CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO, EV-DO Revision A, EV-DO Revision B,
1x Advanced, WCDMA, HSDPA, HSUPA, HSPA  and LTE. Research and development expenditures were also
incurred related to the development of our MediaFLO technology, MediaFLO MDS, mirasol display
products using MEMS technology, Brew products and mobile commerce applications.

We have research and development centers in various locations throughout the world that
support our global development activities and ongoing efforts to advance CDMA, OFDMA and a broad
range of other technologies. We continue to use our substantial engineering resources and expertise
to develop new technologies, applications and services and make them available to licensees to help
grow the wireless telecommunications market and generate new or expanded licensing opportunities.
In addition to internally sponsored research and development, we perform contract research and
development for various government agencies and commercial contractors.

Sales and Marketing 

Sales and marketing activities of our operating segments are discussed under Operating
Segments in Item 1. Other marketing activities include public relations, web-marketing,
participation in technical conferences and trade shows, development of business cases and white
papers, competitive analyses, market intelligence and other marketing programs, such as cooperative
marketing with our customers. Corporate Marketing provides company information on our Internet site
and through other media regarding our products, strategies and technology to industry analysts and
for publications.

Competition 

Competition to our operating segments is discussed under Operating Segments in Item 1.
Competition in the wireless industry throughout the world continues to increase at a rapid pace as
consumers, businesses and governments realize the market potential of wireless telecommunications
products and services. We have facilitated competition in the wireless market by licensing and
enabling a large number of manufacturers. Although we have attained a significant position in the
industry, many of our current and potential competitors may have advantages over us, which include,
among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers or
choose alternate technologies; and government support of other technologies (e.g., GSM). In
addition, our competitors may have established more extensive relationships with indigenous
distribution and original equipment manufacturer companies in developing territories (e.g., China).
These relationships may affect customers  decisions to purchase products or license technology from
us. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire
significant market share to our detriment.

We may face competition throughout the world with new technologies and services introduced in
the future as additional competitors enter the marketplace for products based on 3G standards,
OFDMA-based technologies or other wireless technologies. Although we intend to continue to develop
improvements to existing technologies, as well as potential new technologies, there may be a
continuing competitive threat from companies introducing
alternative versions of wireless technologies. It is also possible that the price we charge
for our products and services may continue to decline as competition continues to intensify.

Patents, Trademarks and Trade Secrets 

We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and proprietary
information to maintain and enhance our competitive position. We have an extensive portfolio of
United States and foreign patents, and we continue to pursue patent applications around the world.
Our patents have broad coverage in many countries, including China, Japan, South Korea, Europe,
Brazil, India, Taiwan and elsewhere. A substantial portion of our

11 

Table of Contents   

patents and patent applications
relate to digital wireless communications technologies, including patents that are essential or may
be relevant to CDMA2000, WCDMA (UMTS), TD-SCDMA, TD-CDMA and OFDMA products.

Standards bodies have been informed that we hold patents that might be essential for all 3G
standards that are based on CDMA. We have committed to such standards bodies that we will offer to
license our essential patents for these CDMA standards on a fair and reasonable basis free from
unfair discrimination. We have also informed standards bodies that we hold patents that might be
essential for certain standards that are based on OFDMA technology (e.g., 802.16e, 802.16m and LTE
(including FDD and TDD versions)).

Since our founding in 1985, we have focused heavily on technology development and innovation.
These efforts have resulted in a leading intellectual property portfolio related to, among other
things, wireless technology. Because all commercially deployed forms of CDMA and their derivatives
require the use of our patents, our patent portfolio is the most widely and extensively licensed
portfolio in the industry with over 185 licensees. Over the years a number of companies have
challenged our patent position but at this time most, if not all, companies recognize that any
company seeking to develop, manufacture and/or sell products that use CDMA technologies will
require a license or other rights to use our patents.

As part of our strategy to generate licensing revenues that continue to support our research
and development investments and support worldwide adoption of our CDMA technology, we provide
rights to design, manufacture and sell products utilizing certain portions of our intellectual
property to other companies, including those companies listed on our Internet site
(www.qualcomm.com).

In all cases, we have licensed or otherwise provided rights to use our patented technologies
to interested companies on terms that are fair, reasonable and free from unfair discrimination.
Unlike some other companies in our industry that hold back certain key technologies, we offer
interested companies essentially our entire patent portfolio for use in cellular devices and cell
site infrastructure equipment. Our strategy to broadly make available our patented technologies has
been a catalyst for industry growth, helping to enable a wide range of companies offering a broad
array of wireless products and features while driving down average and low-end selling prices for
3G handsets and other wireless devices. By licensing or otherwise providing rights to a wide range
of equipment manufacturers, encouraging innovative applications, supporting equipment manufacturers
with a total chipset and software solution, and focusing on improving the efficiency of the airlink
for wireless operators, we have helped 3G CDMA evolve, grow and reduce device pricing all at a
faster pace than the second generation technologies that preceded it (e.g., GSM).

Under our subscriber, infrastructure and test equipment license agreements, licensees are
generally required to pay us a license fee as well as ongoing royalties based on a percentage of
the wholesale (i.e., licensee s) selling price, net of certain permissible deductions (e.g.,
certain shipping costs, packing costs, VAT, etc.), of each licensed product and/or a fixed per unit
amount. License fees are paid in one or more installments, while royalties generally are payable
based on ongoing sales throughout the life of the licensed patents. Our licensing terms are
reasonable and fair to the companies that benefit from our intellectual property and provide
significant incentives for others to invest in CDMA (including WCDMA) applications, as evidenced by
the significant growth in the CDMA portion of the wireless industry and the number of CDMA
participants. Our license agreements generally provide us rights to use certain of our licensees 
technology and intellectual property rights to manufacture and sell certain components (e.g.,
Application-Specific Integrated Circuits) and related software, subscriber units and/or
infrastructure equipment. In most cases, our use of our licensees  technology and intellectual
property does not require us to pay ongoing royalties based on the sale of our products. However,
under some of the licenses, if we incorporate certain of the licensed technology or intellectual
property into certain products, we are obligated to pay royalties on the sale of such products.

Corporate Responsibility 

At Qualcomm, we realize we have a significant role to play as we strive to better both our
local and global communities through ethical business practices, socially empowering technology
applications, educational and environmental programs and employee diversity and volunteerism.

Community Involvement.  We are dedicated to developing and strengthening communities
worldwide and believe that involvement with community organizations is an important
avenue for our employees to develop as professionals and as citizens. 

Diversity.  We strongly believe in fostering an inclusive work environment globally
and are committed to advancing opportunities for all employees and encouraging
diversity through the workforce. 

12 

Table of Contents   

Environmental Health and Safety.  We take a proactive approach to programs and
techniques that contribute to a better environment for our local communities as well as
our employees. 

Corporate Sustainability.  We are committed to energy efficiency, renewable energy
and sustainable best practices to reduce our carbon footprint. 

Wireless Reach.  We believe access to advanced wireless voice and data services
improves people s lives. Qualcomm s Wireless Reach initiative supports programs and
solutions that bring the benefits of connectivity to underserved communities globally.
By working with partners, Wireless Reach projects create new ways for people to
communicate, learn, access health care, sustain the environment and reach global
markets. 

Employees 

At September 26, 2010, we employed approximately 17,500 full-time, part-time and temporary
employees. During fiscal 2010, the number of employees increased by approximately 1,400 primarily
due to increases in engineering resources.

Available Information 

Our Internet address is www.qualcomm.com. There we make available, free of charge, our annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments
to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material
with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make available on our
Internet site public financial information for which a report is not required to be filed with or
furnished to the SEC. Our SEC reports and other financial information can be accessed through the
investor relations section of our Internet site. The information found on our Internet site is not
part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.

The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC s Public
Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (202) 551-8090. The
SEC also maintains electronic versions of our reports on its website at www.sec.gov.

Executive Officers 

Our executive officers (and their ages at September 26, 2010) are as follows:

Paul E. Jacobs, age 47, has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors since March 2009, as
a director since June 2005 and as Chief Executive Officer since July 2005. He served as Group
President of the Qualcomm Wireless   Internet (QWI) Group from July 2001 to June 2005. In addition,
he served as Executive Vice President from February 2000 to June 2005. Dr. Jacobs has been a
director of A123 Systems, Inc., a lithium-ion battery developer and manufacturer, since November
2002. Dr. Jacobs holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, an M.S. degree
in Electrical Engineering and a Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from
the University of California, Berkeley. Dr. Paul Jacobs is the son of Dr. Irwin Mark Jacobs, a
director of the Company.

Steven R. Altman, age 49, has served as President since July 2005. He served as Executive Vice
President from November 1997 to June 2005 and as President of Qualcomm Technology Licensing (QTL)
from September 1995 to April 2005. Mr. Altman served as a director of Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
from March 2006 to April 2010. Mr. Altman holds a B.S. degree in Political Science and
Administration from Northern Arizona University and a J.D. from the University of San Diego.

Derek K. Aberle, age 40, has served as Executive Vice President and as President of QTL since
September 2008. From October 2006 to September 2008, he served as Senior Vice President and as
General Manager of QTL. Mr. Aberle joined Qualcomm in December 2000 and prior to October 2006 held
positions ranging from Legal Counsel to Vice President and General Manager of QTL. Mr. Aberle holds
a B.A. degree in Business Economics from the University of California, Santa Barbara and a J.D.
from the University of San Diego.

Andrew M. Gilbert, age 47, has served as Executive Vice President and President of Qualcomm
Europe since September 2010. He served as Executive Vice President and President of Qualcomm
Internet Services (QIS) and
Qualcomm Europe from May 2009 to September 2010, Executive Vice President and President of QIS,
MediaFLO Technologies (MFT) and Qualcomm Europe from January 2008 to May 2009, as Senior Vice
President and President of Qualcomm Europe from November 2006 to January 2008 and as President of
Qualcomm Europe from February 2006 to November 2006. Mr. Gilbert joined Qualcomm in January 2006 as
Vice President of Qualcomm

13 

Table of Contents   

Europe. Prior to joining Qualcomm, he served as Vice President and
General Manager of Flarion Technologies  European, Middle Eastern and African regions from May 2002
to January 2006.

Margaret  Peggy  L. Johnson, age 48, has served as Executive Vice President of the Americas
and India since January 2008 and as Executive Vice President since December 2006. She served as
President of MFT from December 2005 to January 2008 and as President of QIS from July 2001 to
January 2008. She served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of QIS from September 2000 to
July 2001. Ms. Johnson holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from San Diego State
University.

William E. Keitel, age 57, has served as Executive Vice President since December 2003 and as
Chief Financial Officer since February 2002. He previously served as Senior Vice President and as
Corporate Controller from May 1999 to February 2002. Mr. Keitel holds a B.A. degree in Business
Administration from the University of Wisconsin and an M.B.A. from Arizona State University.

James P. Lederer, age 50, has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of
Qualcomm CDMA Technologies (QCT) since May 2009. He served as Executive Vice President, QCT
Business Planning and Finance from May 2008 to May 2009, Senior Vice President, QCT Finance from
April 2005 to April 2008, Vice President, Finance from July 2001 to April 2005 and Senior Director,
Finance from October 2000 to July 2001. Mr. Lederer joined Qualcomm in 1997 as Senior Manager,
Corporate Finance. Mr. Lederer holds a B.S. degree in Business Administration (Finance/MIS) and an
M.B.A. from the State University of New York at Buffalo.

Steven M. Mollenkopf, age 41, has served as Executive Vice President and Group President since
September 2010. He served as Executive Vice President and President of QCT from August 2008 to
September 2010, as Executive Vice President, QCT Product Management from May 2008 to July 2008, as
Senior Vice President, Engineering and Product Management from July 2006 to May 2008 and as Vice
President, Engineering from April 2002 to July 2006. Mr. Mollenkopf joined Qualcomm in 1994 as an
engineer and throughout his tenure at Qualcomm held several other technical and leadership roles.
Mr. Mollenkopf holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Virginia Tech and an M.S. degree
in Electrical Engineering from the University of Michigan.

Roberto Padovani, age 56, has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer
since November 2001. He previously served as Executive Vice President from July 2001 to November
2001 in Corporate Research and Development and as Senior Vice President from July 1996 to July
2001. Dr. Padovani holds a Laureate degree from the University of Padova, Italy and M.S. and Ph.D.
degrees from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, all in Electrical and Computer Engineering.

Donald J. Rosenberg, age 59, has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary since October 2007. He served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary for Apple Computer, Inc. from December 2006 to October 2007. From May 1975 to
November 2006, Mr. Rosenberg held numerous positions at IBM Corporation, including Senior Vice
President and General Counsel. Mr. Rosenberg holds a B.S. degree in Mathematics from the State
University of New York at Stony Brook and a J.D. from St. John s University School of Law.

Daniel L. Sullivan, age 59, has served as Executive Vice President of Human Resources since
August 2001. He previously served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources from February 1996 to
July 2001. Dr. Sullivan holds a B.S. degree in Communication from Illinois State University, an
M.A. degree in Communication from West Virginia University and a Ph.D. in Organization
Communication from the University of Nebraska.

Jing Wang, age 48, has served as Executive Vice President of Asia Pacific, Middle East and
Africa since January 2008. He previously served as Chairman, Qualcomm Asia Pacific from August 2006
to January 2008 and as Chairman, Qualcomm Greater China from March 2003 to August 2006. Mr. Wang
joined Qualcomm as Senior Vice President in February 2001. Mr. Wang holds a B.A. degree in
Literature from Anhui University, an LL.M from the People s University of China, Department of Law,
and an LL.M from the University of Virginia School Of Law.

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this
Annual Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described
below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us
or that we currently consider immaterial may also
impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and
financial results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could
decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including
our financial statements and the related notes.

14 

Table of Contents   

Risks Related to Our Businesses 

Our revenues are dependent on the commercial deployment of our CDMA- and OFDMA-based technologies
and upgrades of 3G and 3G/4G multimode wireless communications equipment, products and services
based on our technologies. 

We develop, patent and commercialize CDMA- and OFDMA-based technologies. Our revenues are
dependent upon the commercial deployment of our technologies and upgrades of 3G and 3G/4G multimode
wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our technologies. Our business
may be harmed, and our investments in these technologies may not provide us an adequate return if:

wireless operators delay 3G and/or 3G/4G multimode deployments, expansions or upgrades; 

LTE, an OFDMA-based wireless standard, is not widely deployed or commercial deployment
is delayed; or 

wireless operators deploy other technologies. 

Our business is dependent on our ability to increase our market share and to continue to drive
the adoption of our products and services into 3G, 3G/4G multimode and 4G wireless device markets.
We are also dependent on the success of our customers, licensees and CDMA- and OFDMA-based wireless
operators, as well as the timing of their deployment of new services. Our licensees and CDMA- or
OFDMA-based wireless operators may incur lower gross margins on products or services based on our
technologies than on products using alternative technologies as a result of greater competition or
other factors. If commercial deployment of our technologies and upgrades to 3G, 3G/4G multimode or
4G wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our technologies do not
continue or are delayed, our revenues could be negatively impacted, and our business could suffer.

Our revenues can be impacted by the deployment of other technologies in place of CDMA- and/or
OFDMA-based technologies or by the need to extend certain existing license agreements to cover
additional later patents. 

Although we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to GSM, GPRS,
EDGE, OFDM, OFDMA and/or Multiple Input, Multiple Output (MIMO) technologies, our patent portfolio
licensing program in these areas is less established and might not be as successful in generating
licensing income as our CDMA portfolio licensing program. Many wireless operators are investigating
or have selected LTE (or to a lesser extent WiMax) as next-generation technologies for deployment
in existing or future spectrum bands as complementary to their existing CDMA-based networks.
Although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to implementation of the
LTE and WiMax industry standards and have granted royalty-bearing licenses to nine companies to
make and sell products implementing those standards but not implementing 3G standards, we might not
achieve the same royalty revenues on such LTE or WiMax products as on CDMA-based or multimode
CDMA/OFDMA-based products.

The licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only
patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date and, in a small number of
agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. As a result, there
are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us under our
license agreements. In order to license any such later patents, we will need to extend or modify
our license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. We might not be
able to modify such license agreements in the future to license any such later patents or extend
such date(s) to incorporate later patents without affecting the material terms and conditions of
our license agreements with such licensees, and such modifications may impact our revenues.

Global economic conditions that impact the wireless communications industry could negatively affect
the demand for our products and our customers  products, which may negatively affect our revenues. 

Despite the recent improvements in market conditions, a future decline in global economic
conditions, particularly in geographic regions with high customer concentrations, could have
adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our customers,
particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers or others in the wireless industry,
such as wireless operators. Other unexpected negative events may have adverse effects on the
economy, on demand for wireless device products or on wireless device inventories at equipment
manufacturers and wireless operators. In addition, our direct and indirect customers  ability to
purchase or pay for our products and services, obtain financing and upgrade wireless networks could
be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to cancellation or delay of orders for our
products.

Our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological change that could
result in decreased demand for our products and the products of our customers and licensees,
declining average selling 

15 

Table of Contents   

prices for our licensees  products and our products and/or new
specifications or requirements placed upon our products, each of which could negatively affect our
revenues and operating results. 

Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we must make substantial
investments in new products, services and technologies to compete successfully. New technological
innovations generally require a substantial investment before they are commercially viable. We
intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies, and
it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies
will not result in meaningful revenues. Our products, services and technologies face significant
competition, and we cannot assure you that the revenues generated or the timing of their
deployment, which may be dependent on the actions of others, will meet our expectations.
Competition in the telecommunications market is affected by various factors that include, among
others: evolving industry standards, evolving methods of transmission for wireless voice and data
communications; value-added features that drive replacement rates and selling prices; scalability
and the ability of the system technology to meet customers  immediate and future network
requirements.

Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to:

continue to keep pace with technological developments; 

drive adoption of our integrated circuit products across a broad spectrum of wireless
devices sold by our customers and licensees; 

develop and introduce new products, services, technologies and enhancements on a timely
basis; 

effectively develop and commercialize turnkey, integrated product offerings that
incorporate our integrated circuits, software, user interface and applications; 

become a preferred partner for operating system platforms, such as Android and Windows
Mobile; 

focus our services businesses on key platforms that create standalone value or contribute
to the success of our other businesses; and 

succeed in significant foreign markets, such as China, India and Europe. 

Companies that promote non-CDMA technologies (e.g., GSM, WiMax) and companies that design
CDMA-based integrated circuits are generally competitors or potential competitors. Examples (some
of whom are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include Broadcom, Freescale, Fujitsu, Icera,
Infineon, Intel, Marvell Technology, Mediatek, nVidia, Renesas Electronics, ST-Ericsson (a joint
venture between Ericsson Mobile Platforms and ST-NXP Wireless), Texas Instruments and VIA Telecom.
Many of these current and potential competitors have advantages over us that include, among others:
motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers; government
support of other technologies; and more extensive relationships with indigenous distribution and
original equipment manufacturer (OEM) companies in developing territories (e.g., China).

In addition to the foregoing, we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase
in customers requesting that we develop products, including chipsets and associated software, that
will incorporate  open source  software elements and operate in an  open source  environment, which
may offer accessibility to a portion of a product s source code and may expose related intellectual
property to adverse licensing conditions. Developing open source products, with regard to
adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends,
may prove burdensome under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage
for new product designs.

Competition may reduce average selling prices for our chipset products and the products of our
customers and licensees. Reductions in the average selling prices of our licensees  products,
unless offset by an increase in volumes, generally result in reduced royalties payable to us. We
anticipate that additional competitors will enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities
in wireless telecommunications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic
competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in
selected segments of the industry.

We derive a significant portion of our consolidated revenues from a small number of customers and
licensees. If revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease, our operating results
could be negatively affected. 

Our QCT segment derives a significant portion of revenues from a small number of customers.
The loss of any one of our QCT segment s significant customers or the delay, even if only
temporary, or cancellation of significant orders from any of these customers would reduce our
revenues in the period of the deferral or cancellation and harm our ability to achieve or sustain
expected levels of operating results. Accordingly, unless and until our QCT segment

16 

Table of Contents   

diversifies and
expands its customer base, our future success will largely depend upon the timing and size of any
future purchase orders from these customers.

Although we have more than 185 licensees, our QTL segment derives a significant portion of
royalty revenues from a limited number of licensees. Our future success depends upon the ability of
our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain
market acceptance. We have little or no control over the sales efforts of our licensees, and our
licensees might not be successful. Reductions in the average selling price of wireless
communications devices sold by our major licensees, without a sufficient increase in the volumes of
such devices sold, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues.

Efforts by some telecommunications equipment manufacturers to avoid paying fair and reasonable
royalties for the use of our intellectual property may create uncertainty about our future business
prospects, may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources, and
may result in legal decisions and/or actions by foreign governments, Standards Development
Organizations (SDOs) or other industry groups that harm our business. 

A small number of companies have initiated various strategies in an attempt to renegotiate,
mitigate and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual
property in order to negatively affect our business model and that of our other licensees. These
strategies have included (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such
companies, patent misuse, patent exhaustion and patent and license unenforceability, or some form
of unfair competition, (ii) taking positions contrary to our understanding of their contracts with
us, (iii) appeals to governmental authorities, (iv) collective action, including working with
carriers, standards bodies, other like-minded companies and other organizations, on both formal and
informal bases, to adopt intellectual property policies and practices that could have the effect of
limiting returns on intellectual property innovations, and (v) lobbying with governmental
regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the imposition of some form of
compulsory licensing and/or to weaken a patent holder s ability to enforce its rights or obtain a
fair return for such rights. Some companies have proposed significant changes to existing
intellectual property policies for implementation by SDOs and other industry organizations, some of
which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all
essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any
product implementing the relevant standard. They have further proposed that such maximum aggregate
royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with essential patents based upon the number of
essential patents held by such company. A number of these strategies are purportedly based on
interpretations of the policies of certain standards development organizations concerning the
licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and our alleged failure to
abide by these policies. There is a risk that relevant courts or governmental agencies will
interpret those policies in a manner adverse to our interests. If such proposals and strategies are
successful in the future, our business model would be harmed, either by artificially limiting our
return on investment with respect to new technologies or forcing us to work outside of the SDOs or
such other industry groups to promote our new technologies, and our results of operations could be
negatively impacted. As well, the legal and other costs associated with defending our position have
been and continue to be significant. We assume that such challenges regardless of their merits will
continue into the foreseeable future and may require the investment of substantial management time
and financial resources to explain and defend our position.

The enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive, could fail to
prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary intellectual property rights or
could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents. 

We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as
nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary
information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. Policing unauthorized use
of our products and technologies is difficult and time consuming. We cannot be certain that the
steps we have taken, or may take in the future, will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized
use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the
laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as United
States laws. We cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country, including the United
States, or the practices of any of the standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to
intellectual property enforcement or licensing, issuance of spectrum licenses or the adoption of
standards, will not be changed in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use
of our products or technology. We may have difficulty in protecting or enforcing our intellectual
property rights and/or contracts in a particular foreign jurisdiction, including: challenges to our
licensing practices under such jurisdictions  competition laws; adoption of mandatory licensing
provisions by foreign jurisdictions (either with controlled/regulated royalties or royalty free);
and challenges pending before

17 

Table of Contents   

foreign competition agencies to the pricing and integration of
additional features and functionality into our wireless chipset products.

A substantial portion of our patents and patent applications relate to our wireless
communications technology and much of the remainder of our patents and patent applications relate
to our other technologies and products. We may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual
property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary
rights of others. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our ability to enforce one or
more patents or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to enforce our
intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and
attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results.

Claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property or that patents on which we
rely are invalid could adversely affect our business. 

From time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other
intellectual property rights against our products or products using our technologies or other
technologies used in our industry. These claims have resulted and may again result in our
involvement in litigation. We may not prevail in such litigation given the complex technical issues
and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If any of our products were found
to infringe on another company s intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction
or required to redesign our products, which could be costly, or to license such rights and/or pay
damages or other compensation to such other company. If we were unable to redesign our products,
license such intellectual property rights used in our products or otherwise distribute our products
through a licensed supplier, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products. In any
potential dispute involving other companies  patents or other intellectual property, our chipset
foundries and customers could also become the targets of litigation. We are contingently liable
under certain product sales, services, license and other agreements to indemnify certain customers
against certain types of liability and/or damages arising from qualifying claims of patent
infringement by products or services sold or provided by us. Reimbursements under indemnification
arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, any
such litigation could severely disrupt the supply of our products and the business of our chipset
customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with
our chipset customers and wireless operators and could result in a decline in our chipset sales
and/or a reduction in our licensees  sales to wireless operators, causing a corresponding decline
in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. Any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time
consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and
management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have a
material adverse effect upon our operating results.

We expect that we will continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front
of administrative bodies (such as the U.S. International Trade Commission) to defend against patent
assertions against our products by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive
advantage or leverage in licensing negotiations. We may not be successful in such proceedings, and
if we are not, the range of possible outcomes includes everything from a royalty payment to an
injunction on the sale of certain of our chipsets (and on the sale of our customers  devices using
our chipsets) and the imposition of royalty payments that might make purchases of our chipsets less
economical for our customers. A negative outcome in any such proceeding could severely disrupt the
business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could hurt
our relationships with our chipset customers and wireless operators and could result in a decline
in our share of worldwide chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees  sales to wireless
operators, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues.

A number of other companies have claimed to own patents essential to various CDMA standards,
GSM standards and OFDMA standards or implementations of OFDM and OFDMA systems. If we or other
product manufacturers are required to obtain additional licenses and/or pay royalties to one or
more patent holders, this could have a material adverse effect on the commercial implementation of
our CDMA, GSM, OFDMA or multimode products and technologies, demand for our licensees  products and
our profitability.

Other companies or entities also have commenced, and may again commence, actions seeking to
establish the invalidity of our patents. In the event that one or more of our patents are
challenged, a court may invalidate the patent(s) or determine that the patent(s) is not
enforceable, which could harm our competitive position. If our key patents are invalidated, or if
the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by court decision, we could be prevented
from licensing the invalidated or limited portion of such patents. Such adverse decisions could
negatively impact our revenues. Even if such a patent challenge is not successful, it could be
expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our
reputation.

18 

Table of Contents   

Our earnings and stock price are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to
market downturns. 

The stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology-based and wireless
communications companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated
to the operating performance of any specific public company. The market price of our common stock
has fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future as well. Factors that may have
a significant impact on the market price of our stock include, among others:

announcements concerning us or our competitors, including the selection of wireless
communications technology by wireless operators and the timing of the roll-out of those
systems; 

international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or
changes in economic policies; 

changes in recommendations of securities analysts; 

proprietary rights or product or patent litigation against us or against our
customers or licensees; 

strategic transactions, such as spin-offs, acquisitions and divestitures; 

unexpected and/or significant changes in the average selling price of our licensees 
products and our products; 

unresolved disputes with licensees that result in non-payment and/or non-recognition
of royalty revenues that may be owed to us; or 

rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices. 

In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company
following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Due to changes in the
potential volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the
future. Securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management s
attention and resources.

Any prolonged financial or economic crisis may result in a downturn in demand for our products
or technology; the insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; delays in reporting
and/or payments from our licensees and/or customers; and counterparty failures negatively impacting
our treasury operations.

Financial market volatility has impacted, and could continue to impact, the value and
performance of our marketable securities. Net investment income could vary depending on the gains
or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities, impairment charges related to marketable
securities and other investments, changes in interest rates and changes in fair values of
derivative instruments. Our cash equivalent and marketable securities investments represent
significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon
interest rate movements and financial market conditions in fixed income and equity securities.

These factors affecting our future earnings are difficult to forecast and could harm our
quarterly and/or annual operating results. If our earnings fail to meet the financial guidance we
provide to investors, or the expectations of investment analysts or investors in any period,
securities class action litigation could be brought against us and/or the market price of our
common stock could decline.

We depend upon a limited number of third-party suppliers to manufacture and test component parts,
subassemblies and finished goods for our products. If these third-party suppliers do not allocate
adequate manufacturing and test capacity in their facilities to produce products on our behalf, or
if there are any disruptions in the operations of, or a loss of, any of these third parties, it
could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers, reduce our revenues,
increase our cost of sales and harm our business. 

Our ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and
adequate delivery of parts and components from our suppliers. A reduction or interruption in our
product supply source, an inability of our suppliers to react to shifts in product demand or an
increase in component prices could have a material adverse effect on our business or profitability.
The loss of a significant supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet performance and quality
specifications or delivery schedules could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our
customers and negatively impact our revenues and business operations. In the event of a loss of, or
a decision to change, a supplier, qualifying a new foundry supplier and commencing volume
production or testing could involve delay and expense, resulting in possible loss of customers.

While our goal is to establish alternate suppliers for technologies that we consider critical,
we rely on sole- or limited-source suppliers for some products, subjecting us to significant risks,
including: possible shortages of manufacturing capacity; poor product performance; and reduced
control over delivery schedules, manufacturing

19 

Table of Contents   

capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity
and costs. Our arrangements with our suppliers may oblige us to incur costs to manufacture and test
our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers.

QCT Segment.  Although we have entered into long-term contracts with our suppliers, most of
these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments, except as may be provided in a
particular purchase order that has been accepted by our supplier. To the extent that we do not have
firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period, or for any specific quantity, our
suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of
products for their other customers while reducing capacity to manufacture or test our products.
Accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or available at
reasonable prices. We have experienced capacity limitations from our suppliers, which resulted in
supply constraints and our inability to meet certain customer demand. There can be no assurance
that we will not experience these or other supply constraints in the future, which could result in
our failure to meet customer demand. In addition, the timely readiness of our foundry suppliers to
support transitions to smaller geometry process technologies could impact our ability to meet
customer demand, revenues and cost expectations. The timing of acceptance of the smaller technology
designs by our customers may subject us to the risk of excess inventories of earlier designs.

QMT Division.  Our QMT division needs to form and maintain reliable business relationships with
component supply partners to support the manufacture of interferometric modulator (IMOD) displays
and/or modules in commercial volumes. All of our current relationships have been for the
development and limited production of certain IMOD display panels and/or modules. Some or all of
these relationships may not succeed or, even if they are successful, may not result in the
component supply partners entering into material supply relationships with us.

Our suppliers may also be our competitors, putting us at a disadvantage for pricing and capacity
allocation. 

One or more of our suppliers may obtain licenses from us to manufacture CDMA-based integrated
circuits that compete with our products. In this event, the supplier could elect to allocate raw
materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce deliveries to us to our
detriment. In addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms. We
cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations
that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost
of sales.

Currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm
our ability to collect receivables or increase the U.S. dollar cost of the activities of our
foreign subsidiaries and international strategic investments. 

Our international customers sell their products to markets throughout the world, including
China, India, Japan, South Korea, North America, South America and Europe. Consolidated revenues
from international customers as a percentage of total revenues were greater than 90% in both fiscal
2010 and 2009. We are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies that could negatively affect
our operating results. Adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our
business due to a number of situations, including the following, among others:

Our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold into foreign
markets may become less price-competitive as a result of adverse currency fluctuations; 

Certain of our revenues, such as royalty revenues, are derived from licensee or
customer sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. Weakening of currency values
in selected regions could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows; 

We may engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions that could affect our cash
flows and earnings because they may require the payment of structuring fees, limit the
U.S. dollar value of royalties from licensees  sales that are denominated in foreign
currencies, cause earnings volatility if the hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting
and expose us to counterparty risk if the counterparty fails to perform; 

Our loan payable to banks is denominated in Indian rupees. If the U.S. dollar
significantly weakens, additional cash may be required to settle this obligation and the
related interest; and 

Currency exchange rate fluctuations may reduce the U.S. dollar value of our
marketable securities that are denominated directly or indirectly in foreign currencies. 

20 

Table of Contents   

We may engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments that could result in
significant changes or management disruption and fail to enhance stockholder value. 

From time to time, we engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments
with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. We acquire businesses and other assets, including
spectrum licenses, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase equity
and debt securities, including minority interests in publicly-traded and private companies. Many of
our strategic investments are in early-stage companies to support our business, including the
global adoption of CDMA- or OFDMA-based technologies and related services. Most of our acquisitions
or strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and will not become liquid until more than
one year from the date of investment, if at all. Our acquisitions or strategic investments (either
those we have completed or may undertake in the future) may not generate financial returns or
result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies. In some cases, we may be
required to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of companies in which we have
acquired ownership interests. Our share of any losses will adversely affect our financial results
until we exit from or reduce our exposure to these investments.

Achieving the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions depends in part upon our ability
to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of
companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and we
may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. The difficulties of
integrating companies include, among others: retaining key employees; maintaining important
relationships of Qualcomm and the acquired business; minimizing the diversion of management s
attention from ongoing business matters; coordinating geographically separate organizations;
consolidating research and development operations; and consolidating corporate and administrative
infrastructures.

We cannot assure you that the integration of acquired businesses with our business will result
in the realization of the full benefits anticipated by us to result from the acquisitions. We may
not derive any commercial value from acquired technology, products and intellectual property or
from future technologies and products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual
property, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection
we may obtain.

Defects or errors in our products and services or in the products of our customers could harm our
business. If we experience product liability claims or recalls, we may incur significant expenses
and experience decreased demand for our products. 

Our products are inherently complex and may contain defects and errors that are detected only
when the products are in use. For example, as our chipset product complexities increase, we are
required to migrate to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes. The
design process interface issues are more complex as we enter into these new domains of technology,
which adds risk to yields and reliability. Because our products and services are responsible for
critical functions in our customers  products and/or networks, such defects or errors could have an
adverse impact on our customers, which could damage our reputation, harm our customer relationships
and expose us to liability. Defects or impurities in our components, materials or software or those
used by our customers or licensees, equipment failures or other difficulties could adversely affect
our ability, and that of our customers and licensees, to ship products on a timely basis, customer
or licensee demand for our products or the commitment of financial and/or engineering resources
that could affect future product release schedules. Additionally, a defect or failure in our
products or the products of our customers or licensees could harm our reputation and/or adversely
affect the growth of 3G and 3G/4G multimode wireless markets.

Manufacturing, testing, marketing and use of our products and those of our licensees and
customers entail the risk of product liability. The use of wireless devices containing our products
to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to
viral or malicious attacks. We continue to expand our focus on this issue and take measures to
safeguard the software from this threat. However, this issue carries the risk of general product
liability claims along with the associated impacts on reputation and demand. In addition, a product
liability claim or recall, whether against our licensees, customers or us, could harm our
reputation and result in decreased demand for our products.

Our Firethorn and FLO TV businesses do not currently generate operating income and may not succeed
or their operating results may not meet our expectations. 

If
our Firethorn  and/or FLO TV businesses do not succeed, our investments in their
technologies may not provide us an adequate return, and our business could be harmed. Consumer
acceptance of our Firethorn service offerings will continue to be
affected by competition, technology-based
differences and by the operational performance, quality and reliability of our services platforms.
Our FLO TV business had $1.3 billion in assets (including $746 million in spectrum licenses used by
our FLO TV subsidiary) at September 26, 2010. We have commenced a restructuring plan

21 

Table of Contents   

under which we
expect to exit the current FLO TV service business. In addition to
our ongoing operating costs, we expect to incur restructuring charges
related to this plan in the range of $125 million to $175 million in fiscal 2011, which are
primarily related to certain contractual obligations. Additionally, we
continue to evaluate strategic options for the FLO TV business, which include, but are not limited
to, operating the FLO TV network under a new wholesale service; sale to, or joint venture with, a
third party; and/or the sale of the spectrum licenses and the discontinuance of the operation of
the network. Additional charges, including impairment of assets, may be incurred as we continue to
evaluate or implement these strategic options or if we are unable to generate adequate future cash
flows associated with this business.

Our QMT division s business does not currently generate operating income and may not succeed or its
operating results may not meet our expectations. 

While we continue to believe our QMT division s IMOD displays will offer compelling advantages to
users of displays, there can be no assurance that our IMOD product development efforts will be
successful, that we will be able to cost-effectively manufacture these new products, that we will
be able to successfully market these products or that other technologies will not continue to
improve in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate from our IMOD displays. Sales of flat
panel displays are currently, and we believe will likely continue to be, dominated by displays
based on liquid crystal display (LCD) technology for some time. Numerous companies are making
substantial investments in, and conducting research to improve characteristics of, LCDs.
Additionally, several other flat panel display technologies have been, or are being, developed,
including technologies for the production of organic light-emitting diode (OLED), field emission,
inorganic electroluminescence, gas plasma and vacuum fluorescent displays. In each case, advances
in LCD or other flat panel display technologies could result in technologies that are more cost
effective, have fewer display limitations or can be brought to market faster than our IMOD
technology. These advances in competing technologies might cause device manufacturers to avoid
entering into commercial relationships with us or to not renew planned or existing relationships
with us. Our QMT division had $384 million in assets (including $128 million in goodwill) at
September 26, 2010. If we do not achieve adequate market penetration with our IMOD display
technology, our assets may become impaired, which could negatively impact our operating results.

Potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results. 

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions.
Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe
that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related
litigation could materially differ from amounts reflected in historical income tax provisions and
accruals. In such case, our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods in which
that determination is made could be negatively affected. In addition, tax rules may change that may
adversely affect our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For
example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-United States subsidiaries to be
indefinitely invested outside the United States based on estimates that future domestic cash
generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs. No provision has been made for
United States federal and state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of
undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. Our future financial results and liquidity may
be adversely affected if accounting rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change, if domestic cash
needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings, or if the United States international tax rules
change as part of comprehensive tax reform or other tax legislation.

If wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our
products and those of our licensees and customers may decrease. 

Concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions may have the effect of discouraging the
use of wireless devices, which may decrease demand for our products and those of our licensees and
customers. Interest groups have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless
communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids
and medical devices. Concerns have also been expressed over the possibility of safety risks due to
a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. Any legislation that
may be adopted in response to these concerns could reduce demand for our products and those of our
licensees and customers in the United States as well as foreign countries.

Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. 

Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a
Disaster Recovery Plan for our internal information technology networking systems, our systems are
vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts and
telecommunication failures, among other factors. Any system failure, accident or security breach
that causes interruptions in our operations, or in our vendors , customers 

22 

Table of Contents   

or licensees 
operations, could result in a material disruption to our business. To the extent that any
disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our customers  data or applications,
or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. In
addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or
security breaches.

From time to time, we install new or upgraded business management systems. To the extent such
systems fail or are not properly implemented, we may experience material disruptions to our
business, delays in our external financial reporting or failures in our system of internal
controls, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

We are subject to government regulation pertaining to environmental and safety laws, to our
industry, products and services, to corporate governance and public disclosure and to health care. 

National, state and local environmental laws and regulations affect our operations around the
world. These laws may make it more expensive to manufacture, have manufactured and sell products.
It may also be difficult to comply with laws and regulations in a timely manner, and we may not
have compliant products available in the quantities requested by our customers, which may have an
adverse impact on our results of operations. There is also the potential for higher costs driven by
climate change regulations. Our costs could increase if our vendors (e.g., third-party
manufacturers or utility companies) pass on their costs to us.

As part of the development and commercialization of our IMOD display technology, we are
operating both a development and a production fabrication facility. The development and
commercialization of IMOD display prototypes is a complex and precise process involving restricted
materials subject to environmental and safety regulations. Our failure or inability to comply with
existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation
liabilities, the imposition of fines and/or the suspension or termination of development and
production activities.

Our products and services, and those of our customers and licensees, are subject to various
regulations, including FCC regulations in the United States and other international regulations, as
well as the specifications of national, regional and international standards bodies. The adoption
of new laws or regulations, changes in the regulation of our activities, or exclusion or limitation
of our technology or products by a government or standards body, could have a material adverse
effect on our business, including, among other factors, changes in laws, policies, practices or
enforcement affecting trade, foreign investments, licensing practices, spectrum license issuance,
adoption of standards, the provision of wireless device subsidies by wireless operators to their
customers, taxation, environmental protection, loans and employment.

We hold licenses to use spectrum in the United States and the United Kingdom, and we expect
that licenses to use the BWA spectrum recently won in the auction in India will be assigned to us
by December 2010. Our licenses to use spectrum in the United States are subject to a variety of
ongoing FCC proceedings. It is impossible to predict with certainty the outcome of pending FCC or
other federal or state regulatory proceedings and the potential impact to our FLO TV business or to
our use of the spectrum for which we hold licenses. Unless we are able to obtain relief, existing
laws and regulations may inhibit our ability to expand our business and to introduce new products
and services. Furthermore, certain of our licenses in the United States are subject to minimum
build-out requirements to be met at various dates beginning in June 2013. The BWA spectrum licenses
will be subject to minimum build-out requirements to be met within five years of the effective date
of the license. If we do not meet these requirements, the relevant government authorities could
impose a fine or could rescind the license in the area(s) in which the build-out requirements are
not met. Changes in the allocation of available spectrum by the countries in which we hold licenses
could have a material adverse risk on our business and the value of our assets.

Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure
and health care may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. New or changed laws,
regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. As a result, their
application in practice may evolve over time. We are committed to maintaining high standards of
corporate governance and public disclosure and complying with laws and regulations. Evolving
interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we
revise current practices, policies, procedures, and/or health plans and may divert management time
and attention to compliance activities. Our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations
and standards may fail, particularly if there is ambiguity as to how such new or changed laws,
regulations and standards should be applied in practice. Further, our board members, chief
executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in
connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and
retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business.

23 

Table of Contents   

We may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. 

Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our board members, executive
officers and other key management and technical personnel. Our success also depends on our ability
to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. In addition, implementing our
product and business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, and our revenues
are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. The market for such specialized
engineering and other talented employees in our industry is extremely competitive. In addition,
existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled
foreign national graduates of U.S. universities, making the pool of available talent even smaller.
Key employees represent a significant asset, and the competition for these employees is intense in
the wireless communications industry. We do not have employment agreements with our key management
personnel. In the event of a labor shortage, or in the event of an unfavorable change in prevailing
labor and/or immigration laws, we could experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified
employees. We continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in
engineering. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our
business may be harmed.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 

None.

24 

Table of Contents   

Item 2. Properties 

At September 26, 2010, we occupied the indicated square footage in the owned or leased
facilities described below (square footage in thousands):

Number  

Total  

of  

Square  

Buildings  
       
      Location  
       
      Status  
       
      Footage  
       
      Primary Use  

33

United States

Owned

4,026 

Executive and administrative offices, research and development, sales and marketing, service functions,manufacturing and network management hub. 

32

United States

Leased

1,140 

Administrative offices, research and development,
sales and marketing, service functions and network
management hub. 

10

Mexico

Leased

317 

Administrative offices, sales and marketing, service
functions, manufacturing and network management hub. 

7

India

Leased

408 

Administrative offices, research and development and
sales and marketing. 

5

Taiwan

Leased

134 

Administrative offices, research and development and
sales and marketing. 

4

China

Leased

131 

Administrative offices, research and development, sales
and marketing, service functions and network operating
centers. 

3

Korea

Leased

93 

Administrative offices, research and development and
sales and marketing. 

1

Israel

Leased

67 

Administrative offices, research and development and
sales and marketing. 

4

England

Leased

65 

Administrative offices, research and development and
sales and marketing. 

1

India

Owned

56 

Administrative offices, research and development and
sales and marketing. 

2

Canada

Leased

51 

Administrative office, research and development and
sales and marketing. 

3

Singapore

Leased

40 

Administrative offices, research and development and
sales and marketing. 

34

Other International

Leased

158 

Administrative offices, research and development and
sales and marketing. 

Total square footage

6,686 

In addition to the facilities above, we own or lease approximately 232,000 square feet of
properties that are leased or subleased to third parties. Our facility leases expire at varying
dates through 2029 not including renewals that would be at our option. At September 26, 2010, we
also lease space on base station towers and buildings

25 

Table of Contents   

pursuant to 570 lease arrangements for our
FLO TV network. The majority of our cell site leases have an initial term of five to seven years
with renewal options of up to five additional five-year periods.

Several owned and leased facilities are under construction totaling approximately 286,000
additional square feet to meet the requirements projected in our long-term business plan. In fiscal
2011, we intend to initiate construction of a manufacturing facility in Taiwan for our display
business. We believe that our facilities will be suitable and adequate for the present purposes and
that the productive capacity in such facilities is substantially utilized. In the future, we may
need to purchase, build or lease additional facilities to meet the requirements projected in our
long-term business plan.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings 

Tessera, Inc. v. QUALCOMM Incorporated:  On April 17, 2007, Tessera filed a patent infringement
lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Eastern Division of Texas and a complaint with
the United States International Trade Commission (ITC) pursuant to Section 337 of the Tariff Act of
1930 against us and other companies, alleging infringement of two patents relating to semiconductor
packaging structures and seeking monetary damages and injunctive and other relief. The District
Court action is stayed pending resolution of the ITC proceeding, including appeals. The U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office s (USPTO) Central Reexamination Unit has issued office actions rejecting all
of the asserted patent claims on the grounds that they are invalid in view of certain prior art and
has made these rejections final. Tessera has appealed the rejections to the Board of Appeals and
Interferences. On December 1, 2008, the ITC Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) ruled that the patents
are valid but not infringed. On May 20, 2009, however, the ITC reversed the ALJ s determination
that the patents were not infringed, and it issued the following remedial orders: (1) a limited
exclusion order that bans us and the other named respondents from importing into the United States
the accused chip packages (except to the extent those products are licensed) and (2) a cease and
desist order that prohibits us from engaging in certain domestic activities respecting those
products. The President declined to review the decision. We and other respondents appealed. Oral
argument was held on June 9, 2010, and the appellate court decision is expected within the next
several months. During the period of the exclusion order, which has since expired as described
below, we shifted supply of accused chips for the United States market to a licensed supplier of
Tessera, and we continued to supply the United States market without interruption. The subject
patents expired on September 24, 2010, at which time the ITC orders ceased to be operative.

Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) Complaint:  Two U.S. companies (Texas Instruments and
Broadcom) and two South Korean companies (Nextreaming and Thin Multimedia) filed complaints with
the KFTC alleging that certain of our business practices violate South Korean antitrust
regulations. As a result of its agreement with us, Broadcom withdrew its complaint to the KFTC in
May 2009. After a hearing, the KFTC announced its ruling via press release in July 2009. On January
4, 2010, the KFTC issued its written decision, explaining its ruling that we violated South Korean
law by offering certain discounts and rebates for purchases of its CDMA chips and for including in
certain agreements language requiring the continued payment of royalties after all licensed patents
have expired. The KFTC levied a fine of 273.2 billion Korean won, for which we accrued a $230
million charge in fiscal 2009, and ordered us to cease the practices at issue. In February 2010, we
filed a complaint against the KFTC with the Seoul High Court appealing the KFTC s written decision.
We do not anticipate that the cease and desist remedies ordered will have a material effect on the
results of our operations. In July 2009, the KFTC also announced that it would continue its review
of our integration of multimedia functions into our chips, but it has not announced any decisions
in that regard. We believe that our practices do not violate South Korean competition law, are
grounded in sound business practice and are consistent with our customers  desires.

Japan Fair Trade Commission (JFTC) Complaint : The JFTC received unspecified complaints
alleging that our business practices are, in some way, a violation of Japanese law. On September
29, 2009, the JFTC issued a cease and desist order (CDO) concluding that our Japanese licensees
were forced to cross-license patents to us on a royalty-free basis and were forced to accept a
provision under which they agreed not to assert their essential patents against our other licensees
who made a similar commitment in their license agreements with us. The CDO seeks to require us to
modify our existing license agreements with Japanese companies to eliminate these provisions while
preserving the license of our patents to those companies. We disagree with the conclusions that we
forced our Japanese licensees to agree to any provision in the parties  agreements and that those
provisions violate Japan s Anti-Monopoly Act. We have invoked our right under Japanese law to an
administrative hearing before the JFTC. In February 2010, the Tokyo High Court granted our motion
and issued a stay of the CDO pending the administrative
hearing before the JFTC. The JFTC has had four hearing days to date, with two additional
hearing days scheduled through February 2011, and additional hearing days yet to be scheduled.

26 

Table of Contents   

Icera Complaint to the European Commission : On June 7, 2010, the European Commission (the
Commission) notified and provided us with a redacted copy of a complaint filed with the Commission
by Icera, Inc. alleging that we have engaged in anticompetitive activity. We have been asked by the
Commission to submit a preliminary response to the portions of the Complaint disclosed to it, and
we submitted our response in July 2010. We will cooperate fully with the Commission.

Panasonic Arbitration:  On August 5, 2009, Panasonic filed an arbitration demand alleging that
it does not owe royalties, or owes less royalties, on its WCDMA subscriber devices sold on or after
December 21, 2008, and that we breached the license agreement between the parties as well as
certain commitments to standards setting organizations. On January 31, 2010, Panasonic amended the
arbitration demand to include claims based on alleged misrepresentations and the Japanese
Antimonopoly Act and increased its claim for damages to include royalties it has paid on its WCDMA
subscriber devices sold prior to December 21, 2008. The arbitration demand seeks declaratory relief
regarding the amount of royalties due and payable by Panasonic, as well as the return of certain
royalties it had previously paid. We have responded to the arbitration demand, denying the
allegations and requesting judgment in our favor on all claims. The arbitration hearing is
proceeding in phases. The first phase hearing was completed in July 2010. On October 15, 2010, the
arbitrator issued an interim order finding that we did not breach the license agreement. Additional
phases to address the other claims and allegations noted above have not yet been scheduled.
Although we believe Panasonic s claims are without merit, we have deferred the recognition of
revenue related to WCDMA subscriber unit royalties reported and paid by Panasonic in the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2009 and in fiscal 2010.

Formal Order of Private Investigation:  On September 8, 2010, we were notified by the SEC s Los
Angeles Regional office of a formal order of private investigation. We understand that the
investigation arose from a  whistleblower s  allegations made in December 2009 to the audit
committee of our Board of Directors and to the SEC. The audit committee has conducted an internal
review with the assistance of independent counsel and independent forensic accountants. This
recently concluded internal review into the allegations and related accounting practices did not
identify any errors in our financial statements. We continue to cooperate with the SEC s ongoing
investigation.

Other:  We have been named, along with many other manufacturers of wireless phones, wireless
operators and industry-related organizations, as a defendant in purported class action lawsuits,
and individually filed actions pending in federal court in Pennsylvania and Washington D.C.
superior court, seeking monetary damages arising out of our sale of cellular phones.

While there can be no assurance of favorable outcomes, we believe the claims made by other
parties in the foregoing matters are without merit and will vigorously defend the actions. We have
not recorded any accrual for contingent liabilities associated with the legal proceedings described
above based on our belief that liabilities, while possible, are not probable. Further, any possible
range of loss cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. We are engaged in numerous other legal
actions not described above arising in the ordinary course of our business and, while there can be
no assurance, we believe that the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material
adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position.

Item 4. (Removed and Reserved) 

27 

Table of Contents   

PART II 

Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities 

Market Information 

Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol  QCOM.  The
following table sets forth the range of high and low sales prices on the NASDAQ Stock Market of the
common stock for the fiscal periods indicated, as reported by NASDAQ. Such quotations represent
inter-dealer prices without retail markup, markdown or commission and may not necessarily represent
actual transactions.

At
November 1, 2010, there were 8,838 holders of record of our common stock. On November
1, 2010, the last sale price reported on the NASDAQ Stock Market for
our common stock was $45.33
per share.

Dividends 

On March 3, 2009, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.16 to $0.17 per
share on our common stock. On March 1, 2010, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend
from $0.17 to $0.19 per share of common stock. Cash dividends announced in fiscal 2009 and 2010
were as follows (in millions, except per share data):

On October 13, 2010, we announced a cash dividend of $0.19 per share on our common stock,
payable on December 22, 2010 to stockholders of record as of November 24, 2010. We intend to
continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations
that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. Future dividends may be affected
by, among other items, our views on potential future capital
requirements, including those relating to research and development, creation and expansion of
sales distribution channels and investments and acquisitions, legal risks, stock repurchase
programs, changes in federal and state income tax law and changes to our business model.

28 

Table of Contents   

Share-Based Compensation 

We primarily issue stock options and restricted stock units under our equity compensation
plans, which are part of a broad-based, long-term retention program that is intended to attract and
retain talented employees and directors and align stockholder and employee interests.

Our 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (2006 Plan) provides for the grant of both incentive and
non-qualified stock options, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock,
performance units and shares and other stock-based awards. Options are granted at a price not less
than the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant. Generally, options vest over periods
not exceeding five years and are exercisable for up to ten years from the grant date. Restricted
stock units generally vest three years from the date of grant. The Board of Directors may terminate
the 2006 Plan at any time.

Additional information regarding our share-based compensation plans and plan activity for
fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 is provided in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in
this Annual Report in  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 8   Employee Benefit
Plans  and in our 2011 Proxy Statement under the heading  Equity Compensation Plan Information. 

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

Issuer purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 were (in
millions, except per share data):

(1)   
       
      Average Price Paid Per Share excludes cash paid for commissions. 

(2)   
       
      On March 1, 2010, we announced that we had been authorized to repurchase up to $3.0 billion of our common stock, and $1.7 billion of that
amount remained available at September 26, 2010. The stock repurchase program has no expiration date. 

Performance Measurement Comparison of Stockholder Return 

The following graph compares total stockholder return on our common stock since September 25,
2005 to three indices: the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index (the S P 500), the Nasdaq 100 Index
(Nasdaq 100) and the Nasdaq Industry Index for Communications Equipment Stocks, SIC 3660-3669 (the
Nasdaq Industry). The S P 500 tracks the aggregate price performance of the equity securities of
500 United States companies selected by Standard   Poor s Index Committee to include companies in
leading industries and to reflect the United States stock market. The Nasdaq 100 tracks the
aggregate price performance of the 100 largest domestic and international non-financial securities
listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market based on market capitalization. The Nasdaq Industry tracks the
aggregate price performance of equity securities of communications equipment companies traded on
the NASDAQ Stock Market.

Our business continues to evolve along with the technology landscape and ecosystem. Our
operations include licensing portions of our intellectual property to manufacturers of wireless
products, sales of integrated circuits,
other equipment and software, and providing services. In response to this evolution, we believe
that the Nasdaq 100 is a more representative peer group than the Nasdaq Industry, which we have
used historically. In addition, starting in fiscal 2010, we aligned part of our executive
compensation with the performance of Qualcomm stock relative to the Nasdaq 100. To ensure that our
peer benchmark is consistent with how we view and manage our business, we have elected to change
our peer benchmark from the Nasdaq Industry to the Nasdaq 100 beginning in fiscal 2010. Below we
present both the Nasdaq Industry and the Nasdaq 100 for comparison purposes.

29 

Table of Contents   

The total return for our stock and for each index assumes the reinvestment of dividends and is
based on the returns of the component companies weighted according to their capitalizations at the
end of each annual period. We began paying dividends on our common stock on March 31, 2003. Our
common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and is a component of each of the S P
500, the Nasdaq Industry and the Nasdaq 100.

Comparison of Cumulative Total Return on Investment Since 
September 25, 2005    (1)  

The Company s closing stock price on September 24, 2010, the last trading day of the Company s
2010 fiscal year, was $44.55 per share.

(1) 
       
     Shows the cumulative total return on investment assuming an investment of $100 (including
reinvestment of dividends) in our common stock, the S P 500, the Nasdaq Industry and the
Nasdaq 100 on September 25, 2005. All returns are reported as of our fiscal year end, which is
the last Sunday in September. 

30 

Table of Contents   

Item 6. Selected Financial Data 

The following balance sheet data and statement of operations data for the five fiscal years
ended September 26, 2010, September 27, 2009, September 28, 2008, September 30, 2007, and September
24, 2006 were derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. Consolidated balance
sheets at September 26, 2010 and September 27, 2009 and the related consolidated statements of
operations and cash flows for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 and notes thereto appear elsewhere herein.
The data should be read in conjunction with the annual consolidated financial statements, related
notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere herein.

(1)  
       
     Our fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in September. The fiscal years ended
September 26, 2010, September 27, 2009, September 28, 2008, and September 24, 2006 each
included 52 weeks. The fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 included 53 weeks. 

(2)  
       
     Other long-term liabilities in this balance sheet data exclude capital lease
obligations and unearned revenues. Capital lease obligations are included in other liabilities
in the consolidated balance sheets. 

31 

Table of Contents   

Item 7.  
       
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward-looking
statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially
from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks
described in the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report.

Overview 

Recent Developments 

Revenues of $11.0 billion and net income of $3.2 billion for fiscal 2010 were impacted by the
following key items:

We shipped approximately 399 million Mobile Station Modem (MSM) integrated circuits
for CDMA-based wireless devices, an increase of 26%, compared to approximately 317
million MSM integrated circuits in fiscal 2009. The chipset volume in fiscal 2009 was
affected by the slowdown in the worldwide economy. 

Total reported device sales were approximately $105.7 billion, an increase of
approximately 7%, compared to approximately $98.5 billion in fiscal 2009.  (1)  

Against this backdrop, the following recent developments occurred during fiscal 2010 with
respect to key elements of our business or our industry:

Worldwide wireless subscribers grew by approximately 15% to reach approximately 5.2
billion. (2)  

Worldwide 3G subscribers (all CDMA-based) grew to approximately 1.15 billion,
approximately 22% of total wireless subscribers, including approximately 500 million
CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO subscribers and approximately 645 million WCDMA/HSPA/TD-SCDMA
subscribers.  (2)  

In the handset market, CDMA-based unit shipments grew an estimated 21%
year-over-year, compared to an estimated increase of 14% year-over-year across all
technologies.  (3)  

In June 2010, we won a 20 MHz slot of Broadband Wireless Access (BWA) spectrum in
four telecom circles in India as a result of the completion of the BWA spectrum auction
for $1.1 billion. We entered the BWA auction to facilitate the deployment of LTE
technology as a complement to the existing 3G HSPA and EV-DO networks in India. 

(1)  
       
     Total reported device sales is the sum of all reported sales in U.S. dollars
(as reported to us by our licensees) of all licensed CDMA-based subscriber devices
(including handsets, modules, modem cards and other subscriber devices) by our licensees
during a particular period. Not all licensees report sales the same way (e.g., some
licensees report sales net of permitted deductions, such as transportation, insurance and
packing costs, while other licensees report sales and then identify the amount of permitted
deductions in their reports), and the way in which licensees report such information may
change from time to time. 

(2)  
       
     According to Wireless Intelligence estimates as of November 1, 2010, for the
quarter ending September 30, 2010. Wireless Intelligence estimates for CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO
subscribers do not include Wireless Local Loop. 

(3)  
       
     Based on current reports by Strategy Analytics, a global research and consulting
firm, in their August 2010 Global Handset Market Share Update. 

Our Business and Operating Segments 

We design, manufacture, have manufactured on our behalf and market digital wireless
telecommunications products and services based on our CDMA technology and other technologies. We
derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products, license fees and royalties
for use of our intellectual property, messaging and other services and related hardware sales,
software development and licensing and related services, software hosting services and services
related to delivery of multimedia content. Operating expenses primarily consist of cost of
equipment and services, research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses.

We conduct business primarily through four reportable segments. These segments are: Qualcomm
CDMA Technologies, or QCT; Qualcomm Technology Licensing, or QTL; Qualcomm Wireless   Internet, or
QWI; and Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives, or QSI.

QCT is a leading developer and supplier of CDMA-based integrated circuits and system software
for wireless voice and data communications, multimedia functions and global positioning system
products. QCT s integrated circuit products and system software are used in wireless devices,
particularly mobile phones, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers, data cards and
infrastructure equipment. The integrated circuits for wireless devices include the Mobile Station
Modem (MSM), Mobile Data Modem (MDM), Qualcomm Single Chip (QSC), Qualcomm Snapdragon (QSD), Radio
Frequency (RF), Power Management (PM) and Bluetooth devices. These

32 

Table of Contents   

integrated circuits for wireless devices and system software perform voice and data
communication, multimedia and global positioning functions, radio conversion between RF and
baseband signals, power management and peripheral connectivity. QCT s system software enables the
other device components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation
software enabling manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within the
integrated circuits. The infrastructure equipment integrated circuits and system software perform
the core baseband CDMA modem functionality in the wireless operator s base station equipment. QCT
revenues comprised 61%, 59% and 60% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.

QCT utilizes a fabless production business model, which means that we do not own or operate
foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made.
Integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers that have completed the assembly and final test
manufacturing processes. We rely on independent third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing
and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits. Our suppliers are also
responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our
integrated circuits. We employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing business models to purchase
our integrated circuits. Turnkey is when our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully
assembled and tested integrated circuits. Under the two-stage manufacturing business model, we
purchase die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party
manufacturers for back-end assembly and test services. We refer to this two-stage manufacturing
business model as Integrated Fabless Manufacturing (IFM).

QTL grants licenses or otherwise provides rights to use portions of our intellectual property
portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and
sale of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing cdmaOne,
CDMA2000, WCDMA, CDMA TDD (including TD-SCDMA), GSM/GPRS/EDGE and/or OFDMA standards and their
derivatives. QTL receives license fees as well as ongoing royalties based on worldwide sales by
licensees of products incorporating or using our intellectual property. License fees are fixed
amounts paid in one or more installments. Ongoing royalties are generally based upon a percentage
of the wholesale (i.e., licensee s) selling price of licensed products, net of certain permissible
deductions (e.g., certain shipping costs, packing costs, VAT, etc.). QTL revenues comprised 33%,
35% and 33% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The vast
majority of such revenues were generated through our licensees  sales of cdmaOne, CDMA2000 and
WCDMA subscriber equipment products.

QWI, which includes Qualcomm Enterprise Services (QES), Qualcomm Internet Services (QIS),
Qualcomm Government Technologies (QGOV) and Firethorn, generates revenues primarily through mobile
information products and services and software and software development aimed at support and
delivery of wireless applications. QES sells equipment, software and services used by
transportation and other companies to connect wirelessly with their assets and workforce. Through
September 2010, QES has shipped approximately 1,423,000 terrestrial-based and satellite-based
mobile information units. QIS provides content enablement services for the wireless industry,
including Brew, the Plaza suite and other services. QIS also provides QChat push-to-talk, QPoint
and other products for wireless operators. QGOV provides development, hardware and analytical
expertise involving wireless communications technologies to United States government agencies.
Firethorn builds and manages software applications that enable mobile commerce services. QWI
revenues comprised 6%, 6% and 7% of total consolidated revenues fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.

QSI consists of  the Company s strategic investment activities, including FLO TV Incorporated (FLO
TV), our wholly-owned wireless multimedia operator subsidiary. QSI makes strategic investments in
early-stage and other companies and in wireless spectrum, such as the BWA spectrum recently won in
the auction in India, that we believe will open new markets for CDMA- and OFDMA-based technologies,
support the design and introduction of new CDMA and OFDMA products and services for wireless voice
and internet data communications or possess unique capabilities or technology. Our FLO TV
subsidiary offers its service over our nationwide multicast network based on our MediaFLO Media
Distribution System (MDS) and MediaFLO technology, which leverages the Forward Link Only (FLO) air
interface standard. This network is utilized as a shared resource for wireless operators and their
customers in the United States. FLO TV s network uses the 700 MHz spectrum for which we hold
licenses nationwide. We have commenced a restructuring plan under which we expect to exit the
current FLO TV service business. Additionally, we continue to evaluate
strategic options for the FLO TV business, which include, but are not limited to, operating the FLO
TV network under a new wholesale service model; sale to, or joint venture with, a third party;
and/or the sale of the spectrum licenses and the discontinuance of the operation of the network. As
part of our strategic investment activities, we intend to pursue various exit strategies at some
point in the future.

Nonreportable segments include: the Qualcomm MEMS Technologies division, which continues to
develop an interferometric modulator (IMOD) display technology based on
micro-electro-mechanical-system (MEMS) structure

33 

Table of Contents   

combined with thin film optics; the MediaFLO Technologies division, which is comprised of the
FLO Technology group, which continues to develop our MediaFLO MDS and MediaFLO technology, and the
FLO International group, which markets MediaFLO for deployment outside of the United States; and
other product initiatives.

Looking Forward 

The deployment of 3G networks enables increased voice capacity and higher data rates than
prior generation networks, thereby supporting more minutes of use and a wide range of mobile
broadband data applications for handsets, 3G connected computing devices and other consumer
electronics. Many wireless operators are also planning to complement their existing 3G networks by
deploying OFDMA-based technology, often called 4G, in new spectrum to gain additional capacity for
data services. As a result, we expect continued growth in the coming years in consumer demand for
3G and 3G/4G multimode products and services around the world. As we look forward to the next
several months, the following items are likely to have an impact on our business:

The worldwide transition to 3G CDMA-based networks is expected to continue. With the
recently completed auction of 3G spectrum in India, we look forward to network launches
and expansion of 3G in that region along with the continued expansion of 3G in China. 

We expect consumer demand for advanced 3G-based devices, including smartphones, other
data devices and new device categories, such as eBook readers and tablets, to continue
at a strong pace. We also expect growth in lower-end 3G devices as 3G expands in
emerging markets. We still face significant competition in the lower-end market from
GSM-based products, particularly in emerging markets. 

We expect that CDMA-based device prices will continue to segment into high and low
end due to increased development of smartphones and popularity of smartphone
applications on the high end and high volumes and active competition throughout the
world on both the low and high end. This, along with a tempered economic recovery
combined with growth in emerging markets, is expected to continue to impact the average
selling price of CDMA-based devices. 

We continue to invest significant resources toward the development of technology to
increase the data rates available with 3G and 4G networks, wireless baseband chips,
converged computing/communication chips, multimedia products, software and services for
the wireless industry. 

We continue to invest in the evolution of CDMA and a broad range of other
technologies, such as LTE, our IMOD display technology and our Snapdragon platform, as
part of our vision to enable a wide range of products and technologies. 

We have commenced a restructuring plan under which we expect to exit the current FLO
TV service business. Additionally, we continue to evaluate
strategic options for the FLO TV business, which include, but are not limited to,
operating the FLO TV network under a new wholesale service model; sale to, or joint
venture with, a third party; and/or the sale of the spectrum licenses and the
discontinuance of the operation of the network. 

In addition to the foregoing business and market-based matters, we continue to devote
resources to working with and educating participants in the wireless value chain as to the benefits
of our business model in promoting a highly competitive and innovative wireless market. However, we
expect that certain companies may continue to be dissatisfied with the need to pay reasonable
royalties for the use of our technology and not welcome the success of our business model in
enabling new, highly cost-effective competitors to their products. We expect that such companies
will continue to challenge our business model in various forums throughout the world.

Further discussion of risks related to our business is presented in the Risk Factors included
in this Annual Report.

Revenue Concentrations 

Revenues from customers in China, South Korea, Taiwan and Japan comprised 29%, 27% , 12% and
9%, respectively, of total consolidated revenues for fiscal 2010, as compared to 23%, 35%, 8% and
11%, respectively, for fiscal 2009, and 21%, 35%, 5% and 14%, respectively, for fiscal 2008. We
distinguish revenues from external customers by geographic areas based on the location to which our
products, software or services are delivered and, for QTL s licensing and royalty revenues, the
invoiced addresses of our licensees.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources
are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally

34 

Table of Contents   

accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to
make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our
estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, valuation of intangible
assets and investments, share-based payments, income taxes and litigation. We base our estimates on
historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are
reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. These estimates form
the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not
readily apparent from other sources. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree
of uncertainty. Actual results that differ from our estimates could have a significant adverse
effect on our operating results and financial position. We believe that the following significant
accounting policies and assumptions may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity than
others.

Revenue Recognition.   We derive revenue principally from sales of integrated circuit products,
royalties and license fees for our intellectual property, messaging and other services and related
hardware sales, software development and licensing and related services, software hosting services
and services related to delivery of multimedia content. The timing of revenue recognition and the
amount of revenue actually recognized in each case depends upon a variety of factors, including the
specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of our deliverables and obligations.
Determination of the appropriate amount of revenue recognized involves judgments and estimates that
we believe are reasonable, but actual results may differ from our estimates. We record reductions
to revenue for customer incentive programs, including special pricing agreements and other
volume-related rebate programs. Certain reductions to revenue for customer incentives are based on
estimates, including our assumptions related to historical and projected customer sales volumes,
market share and inventory levels.

We license or otherwise provide rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio,
which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of
certain wireless products. Licensees typically pay a license fee in one or more installments and
ongoing royalties based on their sales of products incorporating or using our licensed intellectual
property. License fees are recognized over the estimated period of benefit to the licensee,
typically five to fifteen years. We earn royalties on such licensed products sold worldwide by our
licensees at the time that the licensees  sales occur. Our licensees, however, do not report and
pay royalties owed for sales in any given quarter until after the conclusion of that quarter. We
recognize royalty revenues based on royalties reported by licensees during the quarter and when
other revenue recognition criteria are met. From time to time, licensees will not report royalties
timely due to legal disputes or other reasons, and when this occurs, the timing and comparability
of royalty revenues could be affected.

Valuation of Intangible Assets and Investments.   Our business acquisitions typically result in
the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may
become impaired in the future. We also acquire intangible assets in other types of transactions. At
September 26, 2010, our goodwill and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, were $1.5
billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. The determination of the value of such intangible assets
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial
statements. For intangible assets purchased in a business combination or received in a non-monetary
exchange, the estimated fair values of the assets received (or, for non-monetary exchanges, the
estimated fair values of the assets transferred if more clearly evident) are used to establish
their recorded values, except when neither the values of the assets received or the assets
transferred in non-monetary exchanges are determinable within reasonable limits. Valuation
techniques consistent with the market approach, income approach and/or cost approach are used to
measure fair value. An estimate of fair value can be affected by many assumptions which require
significant judgment. For example, the income approach generally requires assumptions related to
the appropriate business model to be used to estimate cash flows, total addressable market, pricing
and share forecasts, competition, technology obsolescence, future tax rates and discount rates. Our
estimate of the fair value of certain assets, or our conclusion that the value of certain assets is
not reliably estimable, may differ materially from that determined by others who use different
assumptions or utilize different business models. New information may arise in the future that
affects our fair value estimates and could result in adjustments to our estimates in the future,
which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.

We assess potential impairments to intangible assets when there is evidence that events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be
recoverable. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows
related to intangible assets are based on operational performance of our businesses, market
conditions and other factors. Although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process,
the estimates and assumptions we use, including estimates of future cash flows, volumes, market
penetration and discount rates, are consistent with our internal planning. If these estimates or

35 

Table of Contents   

their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record an impairment
charge on all or a portion of our goodwill and intangible assets. Furthermore, we cannot predict
the occurrence of future impairment-triggering events nor the impact such events might have on our
reported asset values. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist
and that goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our acquired businesses are impaired.
Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our net investment income (loss).

We hold minority investments in publicly-traded companies whose share prices may be highly
volatile. We also hold investments in other marketable securities, including non-investment-grade
debt securities, equity and debt mutual and exchange-traded funds, corporate bonds and notes,
auction rate securities and mortgage- and asset-backed securities. These investments, which are
recorded at fair value with increases or decreases generally recorded through stockholders  equity
as other comprehensive income or loss, totaled $14.9 billion at September 26, 2010. We record
impairment charges through the statement of operations when we believe an investment has
experienced a decline that is other than temporary. The determination that a decline is other than
temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. In addition, the fair values of our
strategic investments may be subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to
significant market volatility. Adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of
investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments,
thereby requiring impairment charges. When assessing these investments for an other-than-temporary
decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, how significant the decline in
value is as a percentage of the original cost, how long the market value of the investment has been
below its original cost, the extent of the general decline in prices or an increase in the default
or recovery rates of securities in an asset class, negative events such as a bankruptcy filing or a
need to raise capital or seek financial support from the government or others, the performance and
pricing of the investee s securities in relation to the securities of its competitors within the
industry and the market in general and analyst recommendations, as applicable. We also review the
financial statements of the investee to determine if the investee is experiencing financial
difficulties. If we determine that a security price decline is other than temporary, we may record
an impairment loss, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. During fiscal
2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded $111 million, $743 million and $502 million, respectively, in net
impairment losses on our investments in marketable securities.

Share-Based Compensation.   Share-based compensation expense recognized during fiscal 2010, 2009
and 2008 was $615 million, $584 million and $543 million, respectively. Share-based compensation is
measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over
the requisite service period. We generally estimate the value of stock option awards using a
lattice binomial option-pricing model. Accordingly, the fair value of an option award as determined
using an option-pricing model is affected by our stock price on the date of grant as well as
assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but
are not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, actual and
projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, risk-free interest rates and expected
dividends. For purposes of estimating the fair value of stock options, we used the implied
volatility of market-traded options in our stock for the expected volatility assumption input to
the binomial model. The assumption inputs related to employee exercise behavior include estimates
of the post-vest forfeiture rate and suboptimal exercise factors, which are based on historical
experience. In addition, judgment is required in estimating the amount of share-based awards that
are expected to be forfeited. We estimate the forfeiture rate based on historical experience. To
the extent our actual forfeiture rate is different from our estimate, share-based compensation
expense is adjusted accordingly.

Income Taxes.   Our income tax returns are based on calculations and assumptions that are
subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities. In
addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the
application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based
on a two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by
determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the
position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation
processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more
than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. While we believe we have appropriate support for
the positions taken on our tax returns, we regularly assess the potential outcomes of these
examinations and any future examinations for the current or prior years in determining the adequacy
of our provision for income taxes. We continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential
adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, income taxes payable and deferred taxes in the
period in which the facts that give rise to a revision become known. Although we believe that the
estimates and assumptions supporting our assessments are reasonable, adjustments could be
materially different from those which are reflected in historical income tax provisions and
recorded assets and liabilities. We are participating in the IRS Compliance

36 

Table of Contents   

Assurance Process program whereby we endeavor to agree with the IRS on the treatment of all
issues prior to filing our federal return. A benefit of participation in this program is that
post-filing adjustments by the IRS are less likely to occur.

We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation
allowance based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income, the expected timing
of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax-planning
strategies. At September 26, 2010, gross deferred tax assets were $2.8 billion. If we are unable to
generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, or if there is a material
change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or
deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowance against our deferred tax
assets which could result in an increase in our effective tax rate and an adverse impact on
operating results.

We can only use net operating losses to offset taxable income of certain legal entities in
certain tax jurisdictions. At September 26, 2010, we had unused federal, state and foreign net
operating losses of $114 million, $284 million and $40 million, respectively. Based upon our
assessments of projected future taxable income and losses and historical losses incurred by these
entities, we expect that the future taxable income of the entities in these tax jurisdictions will
not be sufficient to utilize the net operating losses we have incurred through fiscal 2010.
Therefore, we have provided a $17 million valuation allowance for these net operating losses.
Significant judgment is required to forecast the timing and amount of future taxable income in
certain jurisdictions. Adjustments to our valuation allowance based on changes to our forecast of
taxable income are reflected in the period the change is made.

We consider the operating earnings of certain non-United States subsidiaries to be
indefinitely invested outside the United States based on estimates that future domestic cash
generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs. We have not recorded a deferred
tax liability of approximately $4.2 billion related to the United States federal and state income
taxes and foreign withholding taxes on approximately $10.6 billion of undistributed earnings of
foreign subsidiaries indefinitely invested outside the United States. Should we decide to
repatriate the foreign earnings, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period we
determined that the earnings will no longer be indefinitely invested outside the United States.

Litigation.   We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings. Although there can be no
assurance that unfavorable outcomes in any of these matters would not have a material adverse
effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, we believe the claims are without
merit and intend to vigorously defend the actions. We estimate the range of liability related to
pending litigation where the amount and range of loss can be estimated. We record our best estimate
of a loss when the loss is considered probable. Where a liability is probable and there is a range
of estimated loss with no best estimate in the range, we record the minimum estimated liability
related to the claim. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential
liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. Revisions in our estimates of
the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations. For example, we recorded
a $783 million charge during fiscal 2009 in connection with a litigation settlement charge related
to the Settlement and Patent License and Non-Assert Agreement with Broadcom. We are engaged in
numerous other legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business and, while there can be
no assurance, we believe that the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material
adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position.

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 

Revenues.   Total revenues for fiscal 2010 were $10.99 billion, compared to $10.42 billion for
fiscal 2009. Revenues from two customers of our QCT and QTL segments (each of whom accounted for
more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the period) comprised approximately 25% and 31% in
aggregate of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2010 were $6.98 billion, compared to
$6.47 billion for fiscal 2009. The increase in revenues from sales of equipment and services was
primarily due to a $541 million increase in QCT revenues. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees
for fiscal 2010 were $4.01 billion, compared to $3.95 billion for fiscal 2009. The increase in
revenues from licensing and royalty fees was primarily due to a $56 million increase in QTL
revenues.

Cost of Equipment and Services.   Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2010 was
$3.52 billion, compared to $3.18 billion for fiscal 2009. Cost of equipment and services revenues
as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 50% for fiscal 2010, compared to 49% for
fiscal 2009. The decrease in margin percentage was primarily attributable to the effect of
increases in costs related to our FLO TV subsidiary and our QMT division, partially offset by an
increase in QCT gross margin percentage. Cost of equipment and services revenues included $42
million in share-based compensation in fiscal 2010, compared to $41 million for fiscal 2009. Cost
of equipment

37 

Table of Contents   

and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues may fluctuate in
future periods depending on the mix of products sold and services provided, competitive pricing,
new product introduction costs and other factors.

Research and Development Expenses.   For fiscal 2010, research and development expenses were
$2.55 billion or 23% of revenues, compared to $2.44 billion or 23% of revenues for fiscal 2009. The
dollar increase is primarily attributable to a $156 million increase in costs related to the
development of integrated circuit products, next generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies and other
initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including
lower-cost devices, the integration of wireless with consumer electronics and computing, the
convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, third-party operating
systems and services platforms. The increase in research and development expenses was partially
offset by a $65 million decrease in costs primarily related to the development of our
asset-tracking products and services and Brew products. Research and development expenses for
fiscal 2010 included share-based compensation of $300 million, compared to $280 million in fiscal
2009.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.   For fiscal 2010, selling, general and
administrative expenses were $1.64 billion or 15% of revenues, compared to $1.56 billion or 15% of
revenues for fiscal 2009. The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $61 million increase
in selling and marketing expenses, a $56 million increase in patent-related costs and a $23 million
increase in employee-related expenses, partially offset by a $62 million gain on the sale of our
Australia spectrum license. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2010 included
share-based compensation of $273 million, compared to $263 million in fiscal 2009.

Other Operating Expenses.   Operating expenses for fiscal 2009 included a $783 million charge in
connection with the Settlement and Patent License and Non-Assert Agreement with Broadcom and a $230
million fine levied by the KFTC.

Net Investment Income.   Net investment income was $751 million for fiscal 2010, compared to a
net investment loss of $150 million for fiscal 2009. The net increase was comprised as follows (in
millions):

During fiscal 2010, we recorded lower impairment losses and higher realized gains on
marketable securities, compared to fiscal 2009. Depressed security values caused by a major
disruption in the United States and foreign financial markets impacted our results in fiscal 2009
and continued to cause impairment losses in fiscal 2010, but to a much lesser extent. The increase
in interest expense is primarily the result of the short-term bank loan related to the BWA spectrum
recently won in the India auction.

Income Tax Expense.   Income tax expense was $787 million for fiscal 2010, compared to $484
million for fiscal 2009. The annual effective tax rate was 20% for fiscal 2010, compared to 23% for
fiscal 2009. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 was lower than fiscal 2009 primarily as
a result of the net decrease in valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset related to capital
losses and an increase in tax benefits related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United
States federal rate, partially offset by a decrease in tax benefit related to tax audits settled
during the year and a decrease in research and development tax credits.

The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 was 20% and only reflected the United States
federal research and development credits generated through December 31, 2009, the date on which
they expired. The annual effective tax

38 

Table of Contents   

rate for fiscal 2010 of 20% was less than the United States
federal statutory rate primarily due to benefits of 22% related to foreign earnings taxed at less
than the United States federal rate, 1% related to a decrease in valuation allowance recorded in
fiscal 2010 on the deferred tax asset related to capital losses and 1% related to research and
development tax credits, partially offset by state taxes of 5% and tax expense of 4% related to the
valuation of deferred tax assets to reflect changes in California law, primarily deferred revenue
that was taxable in fiscal 2010, but for which the resulting deferred tax asset will reverse in
future years when the Company s state tax rate will be lower.

Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, increased during fiscal 2010 primarily due to
the establishment of the deferred tax asset related to revenue derived from the Company s 2008
license and settlement agreements with Nokia.

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 

Revenues.   Total revenues for fiscal 2009 were $10.42 billion, compared to $11.14 billion for
fiscal 2008. Revenues from two customers of our QCT and QTL segments (each of whom accounted for
more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the period) comprised approximately 31% and 30% in
aggregate of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2009 were $6.47 billion, compared to
$7.16 billion for fiscal 2008. The decrease in revenues from sales of equipment and services was
primarily due to a $597 million decrease in QCT revenues and a $79 million decrease in QES
revenues. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2009 were $3.95 billion, compared to
$3.98 billion for fiscal 2008. The decrease in revenues from licensing and royalty fees was
primarily due to a $26 million decrease in QIS revenues.

Cost of Equipment and Services.   Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2009 was
$3.18 billion compared to $3.41 billion for fiscal 2008. Cost of equipment and services revenues as
a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 49% for fiscal 2009, compared to 48% for fiscal
2008. Cost of equipment and services revenues included $41 million in share-based compensation in
fiscal 2009, compared to $39 million in fiscal 2008.

Research and Development Expenses.   For fiscal 2009, research and development expenses were
$2.44 billion or 23% of revenues, compared to $2.28 billion or 20% of revenues for fiscal 2008. The
dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $129 million increase in costs related to the
development of integrated circuit products, next generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies, the
expansion of our intellectual property portfolio and other initiatives to support the acceleration
of advanced wireless products and services, including lower cost devices, the integration of
wireless with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode,
multinetwork products and technologies, third-party operating systems and services platforms.
Research and development expenses in fiscal 2009 included share-based compensation and in-process
research and development of $280 million and $6 million, respectively, compared to $250 million and
$14 million, respectively, in fiscal 2008.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.   For fiscal 2009, selling, general and
administrative expenses were $1.56 billion or 15% of revenues, compared to $1.71 billion or 15% of
revenues for fiscal 2008. The dollar decrease was primarily attributable to a $110 million decrease
in professional fees, of which $72 million related to litigation and other legal matters, a $24
million decrease in selling and marketing expenses and a $19 million decrease in travel expenses.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2009 included share-based compensation of
$263 million, compared to $254 million in fiscal 2008.

Other Operating Expenses.   Operating expenses for fiscal 2009 included a $783 million charge in
connection with the Settlement and Patent License and Non-Assert Agreement with Broadcom and a $230
million fine levied by the KFTC.

Net Investment (Loss) Income.   Net investment loss was $150 million for fiscal 2009, compared
to net investment income of $96 million for fiscal 2008. The net decrease was primarily comprised
as follows (in millions):

39 

Table of Contents   

Net impairment losses on marketable securities related primarily to depressed securities
values caused by the prolonged disruption in global financial markets affecting consumers and the
banking, finance and housing industries. This disruption was evidenced by a deterioration of
confidence in financial markets and a severe decline in the availability of capital and demand for
debt and equity securities.

Income Tax Expense.   Income tax expense was $484 million for fiscal 2009, compared to $666
million for fiscal 2008. The annual effective tax rate was 23% for fiscal 2009, compared to 17% for
fiscal 2008. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 was higher than the annual effective tax
rate for fiscal 2008 primarily due to a decrease in foreign earnings taxed at less than the United
States federal rate, an increase in the valuation allowance on capital losses recognized in
earnings and the revaluation of net deferred tax assets to reflect changes in California law,
partially offset by adjustments to prior year estimates of uncertain tax positions as a result of
tax audits during fiscal 2009.

The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 of 23% was less than the United States federal
statutory rate primarily due to benefits of approximately 20% related to foreign earnings taxed at
less than the United States federal rate, 7% related to adjustments to prior year estimates of
uncertain tax positions as a result of tax audits during the year and 5% related to research and
development tax credits, partially offset by an increase in valuation allowance related to capital
losses of 11%, the revaluation of net deferred items of 4% and state taxes of approximately 5%.

Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 

The following should be read in conjunction with the fiscal 2010 and 2009 financial results
for each reporting segment. See  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Note 10   Segment
Information. 

QCT Segment.   QCT revenues for fiscal 2010 were $6.70 billion, compared to $6.14 billion for
fiscal 2009. Equipment and services revenues, mostly related to sales of MSM and accompanying RF
and PM integrated circuits, were $6.47 billion for fiscal 2010, compared to $5.93 billion for
fiscal 2009. The increase in equipment and services revenues resulted primarily from a $1.25
billion increase related to higher unit shipments, partially offset by a decrease of $713 million
related to the net effects of changes in product mix and the average selling prices of such
products. Approximately 399 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2010, compared
to approximately 317 million for fiscal 2009. The chipset volume in fiscal 2009 was impacted by the
slowdown in the worldwide economy that caused contraction in the CDMA-based channel inventory and
resulted in lower demand for CDMA-based MSM integrated chips.

QCT earnings before taxes for fiscal 2010 were $1.69 billion, compared to $1.44 million for
fiscal 2009. QCT operating income as a percentage of revenues (operating margin percentage) was 25%
in fiscal 2010, compared to 23% in fiscal 2009. The increase in QCT earnings before taxes was
primarily attributable to the increase in revenues, partially offset by an increase in research and
development expenses. The increase in QCT operating
margin percentage was primarily due to an increase in gross margin percentage and a decrease
in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues driven primarily by the
increase in revenues. QCT gross

40 

Table of Contents   

margin percentage increased as a result of the net effects of a
decrease in average unit costs, lower average selling prices and favorable product mix.

QCT inventory increased by 18% in fiscal 2010 from $408 million to $481 million primarily due
to an increase in work-in-process associated with growth in sales volume and the net effects of
changes in integrated circuit product mix.

QTL Segment.   QTL revenues for fiscal 2010 were $3.66 billion, compared to $3.61 billion for
fiscal 2009. Revenues in fiscal 2010 included $71 million attributable to fiscal 2009 that had
previously not been recognized due to discussions regarding a license agreement that was signed in
the first quarter of fiscal 2010. QTL earnings before taxes for fiscal 2010 were $3.02 billion,
compared to $3.07 billion for fiscal 2009. QTL operating margin percentage was 83% in the fiscal
2010, compared to 85% in fiscal 2009. The decrease in QTL earnings before taxes was primarily
attributable to an increase in patent-related costs, partially offset by the increase in revenues,
which resulted in a corresponding decrease in operating margin percentage.

QWI Segment.   QWI revenues for fiscal 2010 were $628 million, compared to $641 million for
fiscal 2009. Revenues decreased primarily due to a $56 million decrease in QIS revenues, partially
offset by a $31 million increase in QES revenues. The decrease in QIS revenues was primarily
attributable to a $39 million decrease in QChat revenues resulting from decreased development
efforts under the licensing agreement with Sprint and a $16 million decrease in Brew revenues
resulting from lower consumer demand. The increase in QES revenues was primarily attributable to a
$58 million increase in equipment revenue resulting from higher unit shipments, partially offset by
a $31 million decrease in messaging and other services revenue. QWI earnings before taxes for
fiscal 2010 were $12 million, compared to $20 million for fiscal 2009. QWI operating margin
percentage was 1% in fiscal 2010, compared to 3% in fiscal 2009. The decrease in QWI earnings
before taxes was primarily attributable to the decrease in revenues, partially offset by a decrease
in research and development expenses. The decrease in QWI operating margin percentage was primarily
attributable to a decrease in QIS gross margin percentage, partially offset by the decrease in
research and development expenses.

QSI Segment  . QSI revenues for fiscal 2010 were $9 million, compared to $29 million for fiscal
2009. Revenues were attributable to our FLO TV subsidiary. The decrease in FLO TV revenues was
primarily due to an increase in customer-related incentives that were recorded as reductions in
revenues and lower service-related revenues. QSI loss before taxes for fiscal 2010 was $436
million, compared to $361 million for fiscal 2009. QSI loss before taxes increased by $75 million
primarily due to a $135 million increase in our FLO TV subsidiary s loss before taxes, partially
offset by a $62 million gain on the sale of our Australia spectrum license.

We have commenced a restructuring plan under which we expect to exit the current FLO TV
service business. There were no significant expenses recognized in fiscal 2010 related to this
restructuring plan. In addition to our ongoing operating costs, we expect to incur restructuring charges related to this plan in the range of
$125 million to $175 million in fiscal 2011, which are primarily related to certain contractual
obligations. Additional charges, including impairment of assets, may be incurred as we continue to
evaluate or implement strategic options or if we are unable to generate adequate future cash flows
associated with this business.

Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 

The following should be read in conjunction with the fiscal 2009 and 2008 financial results
for each reporting segment. See  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Note 10   Segment
Information. 

QCT Segment.   QCT revenues for fiscal 2009 were $6.14 billion, compared to $6.72 billion for
fiscal 2008. Equipment and services revenues, mostly related to sales of MSM and accompanying RF
and PM integrated circuits, were $5.93 billion for fiscal 2009, compared to $6.53 billion for
fiscal 2008. The decrease in equipment and services revenues resulted primarily from a $770 million
decrease related to lower unit shipments, caused by the contraction in CDMA-based channel
inventory. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $113 million related to the net
effects of changes in product mix and the average selling prices of such products. Approximately
317 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2009, compared to approximately 336
million for fiscal 2008.

QCT earnings before taxes for fiscal 2009 were $1.44 billion, compared to $1.83 billion for
fiscal 2008. QCT operating income as a percentage of revenues (operating margin percentage) was 23%
in fiscal 2009, compared to 27% in fiscal 2008. The decrease in operating margin percentage was
primarily due to increased research and development expenses while revenues declined.

QCT inventories decreased by 10% in fiscal 2009 from $453 million to $408 million primarily due to the
net effects of changes in integrated circuit product mix and a decrease in average unit costs.

41 

Table of Contents   

QTL Segment.   QTL revenues for fiscal 2009 were $3.61 billion, compared to $3.62 billion
for fiscal 2008. QTL earnings before taxes for fiscal 2009 were $3.07 billion, compared to $3.14
billion for fiscal 2008. QTL operating margin percentage was 85% in fiscal 2009, compared to 87% in
fiscal 2008. The decrease in earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to an increase in
amortization related to acquired patents, partially offset by a decrease in professional fees
related to litigation and other legal matters, which resulted in a corresponding decline in
operating margin percentage.

QWI Segment.   QWI revenues for fiscal 2009 were $641 million, compared to $785 million for
fiscal 2008. Revenues decreased primarily due to a $79 million decrease in QES revenues and a $71
million decrease in QIS revenues. The decrease in QES revenues was primarily attributable to a $50
million decrease in revenues from hardware product sales, due to a 47,500-unit reduction, or 52%,
in the number of units shipped, and a $21 million decrease in messaging revenue. The decrease in
QIS revenues was primarily attributable to a $45 million decrease in QChat revenues resulting
primarily from decreased development efforts under the licensing agreement with Sprint and a $30
million decrease in Brew revenues resulting from lower consumer demand and lower prices due to the
slowdown in global economies and competitive pricing pressures.

QWI earnings before taxes for fiscal 2009 were $20 million, compared to a loss before taxes of
$1 million for fiscal 2008. QWI operating margin percentage was 3% in fiscal 2009, compared to zero
percent in fiscal 2008. The increase in QWI earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to a
decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses of
QIS and QES, partially offset by an increase in the operating loss of Firethorn. The increase in
QWI operating margin percentage was primarily attributable to improvements in QIS and QES gross
margin percentage, partially offset by an increase in the operating loss of Firethorn.

QSI Segment  . QSI revenues for fiscal 2009 were $29 million, compared to $12 million for fiscal
2008. QSI loss before taxes for fiscal 2009 was $361 million, compared to $304 million for fiscal
2008. QSI revenues were attributable to our FLO TV subsidiary. QSI loss before taxes increased by
$57 million primarily due to a $39 million increase in net investment losses (unrelated to FLO TV)
and an $18 million increase in our FLO TV subsidiary s loss before taxes.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Our principal sources of liquidity are our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities, cash generated from operations and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our
stock option and employee stock purchase plans. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities
were $18.4 billion at September 26, 2010, an increase of $660 million from September 27, 2009. Our
cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at September 26, 2010 consisted of $6.3 billion
held domestically and $12.1 billion held by foreign subsidiaries. Due to tax and accounting
considerations, we derive liquidity for operations primarily from domestic cash flow and
investments held domestically. Total cash provided by operating activities decreased to $4.1
billion during fiscal 2010, compared to $7.2 billion during fiscal 2009. The decrease was primarily
due to collection of the $2.5 billion trade receivable in fiscal 2009 related to the license and
settlement agreements completed with Nokia in September 2008.

During fiscal 2010, we repurchased and retired 79,789,000 shares of our common stock for $3.0
billion. On March 1, 2010, we announced that we had been authorized to repurchase up to $3.0
billion of our common stock, and $1.7 billion of that amount remained available at September 26,
2010. The stock repurchase program has no expiration date. We intend to continue to repurchase
shares of our common stock under this program as a means of returning capital to stockholders,
subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that stock repurchases are in the best
interests of our stockholders.

We declared and paid dividends totaling $1.2 billion, $1.1 billion and $982 million, or $0.72,
$0.66 and $0.60 per common share, during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008. On March 1, 2010, we announced
an increase in our quarterly cash dividend per share of common stock from $0.17 to $0.19. We
announced cash dividends totaling $305 million, or $0.19 per share, during the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2010, which were paid on September 24, 2010. On October 13, 2010, we announced a cash
dividend of $0.19 per share on our common stock, payable on December 22, 2010 to stockholders of
record as of November 24, 2010. We intend to continue to use cash dividends as a means of returning
capital to stockholders, subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash
dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders.

Accounts receivable increased 4% during fiscal 2010. Days sales outstanding, on a consolidated
basis, were 22 days at September 26, 2010 compared to 23 days at September 27, 2009.

42 

Table of Contents   

We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and our expected cash
flow generated from operations will provide us with flexibility and satisfy our working and other
capital requirements over the next fiscal year and beyond based on our current business plans. The
following working and other capital requirements are anticipated in fiscal 2011:

Our total research and development expenditures were $2.5 billion and $2.4 billion in
fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively, and we expect to continue to invest heavily in
research and development for new technologies, applications and services for the
wireless industry. 

Capital expenditures were $426 million and $761 million in fiscal 2010 and 2009,
respectively, and advance payment on spectrum was $1.1 billion in fiscal 2010. We
anticipate that capital expenditures excluding the fiscal 2010 advance payment on
spectrum will be more than three times higher in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010
primarily due to the construction of a new manufacturing facility in fiscal 2011 for our
QMT division. Future capital expenditures may also be impacted by transactions that are
currently not forecasted. 

Our purchase obligations for fiscal 2011, some of which relate to research and
development activities and capital expenditures, totaled $1.4 billion at September 26,
2010. 

In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we expect to pay $1.4 billion to the United
States tax authorities as a result of the cash and intangible assets received in
connection with the 2008 license and settlement agreements with Nokia. We intend to use
cash held domestically to settle this obligation. 

In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we are obligated to repay a $1.1 billion
short-term bank loan that is denominated in Indian rupees. The loan has a fixed interest
rate of 6.75% per year with interest payments due monthly. The loan is related to the
BWA spectrum recently won in the India auction. We expect to refinance a substantial
portion of this short-term bank loan with a long-term bank loan in the first half of
fiscal 2011. 

Pursuant to the Settlement and Patent License and Non-Assert Agreement with Broadcom,
we are obligated to pay a remaining $475 million ratably through April 2013, including
imputed interest, of which $173 million is payable in fiscal 2011. 

In fiscal 2011, we anticipate incurring cash expenditures associated with the
expected exit of the current FLO TV service business in the range of $160 million to
$210 million, primarily related to certain contractual
obligations, in addition to FLO TV s ongoing cash expenditures. Additional cash
expenditures may be incurred as we continue to evaluate or implement strategic options
or if we are unable to generate adequate future cash flows associated with this
business. 

Cash used for strategic investments and acquisitions, net of cash acquired, was $94
million and $54 million in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively, and we expect to continue
making strategic investments and acquisitions to open new markets for our technology,
expand our technology, obtain development resources, grow our patent portfolio or pursue
new business opportunities. 

Contractual Obligations / Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We have no significant contractual obligations not fully recorded on our consolidated balance
sheets or fully disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We have no
material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in S-K 303(a)(4)(ii).

At September 26, 2010, our outstanding contractual obligations included (in millions):

43 

Table of Contents   

Contractual Obligations 
Payments Due By Fiscal Period 

(1)  
       
     Total purchase obligations include $1.2 billion in commitments to purchase
integrated circuit product inventories. 

(2)  
       
     These commitments do not have fixed funding dates and are subject to certain
conditions. Commitments represent the maximum amounts to be financed or funded under these
arrangements; actual financing or funding may be in lesser amounts or not at all. 

(3)  
       
     Amounts represent future minimum lease payments including interest payments. Capital
lease obligations are included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at
September 26, 2010. 

(4)  
       
     Certain long-term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, such as unearned
revenues, are not presented in this table because they do not require cash settlement in the
future. Other long-term liabilities as presented in this table include the related current
portions. 

(5)  
       
     Our consolidated balance sheet at September 26, 2010 included a $6 million
noncurrent liability for uncertain tax positions, all of which may result in cash payment. The
future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above
due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with the taxing
authorities. 

Additional information regarding our financial commitments at September 26, 2010 is
provided in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. See  Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, Note 9   Commitments and Contingencies. 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

Interest Rate Risk.   We invest our cash in a number of diversified investment- and
non-investment-grade fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents, marketable
debt securities and debt mutual funds. Changes in the general level of United States interest rates
can affect the principal values and yields of fixed interest-bearing securities. If interest rates
in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed interest-bearing
securities could lose value. When the general economy weakens significantly, the credit profile,
financial strength and growth prospects of certain issuers of interest-bearing securities held in
our investment portfolios may deteriorate, and our interest-bearing securities may lose value
either temporarily or other than temporarily. We may implement investment strategies of different
types with varying duration and risk/return trade-offs that do not perform well.

The following table provides information about our interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents,
marketable securities and loan payable to banks that are sensitive to changes in interest rates.
The table presents principal cash flows, weighted-average yield at cost and contractual maturity
dates. Additionally, we have assumed that the interest-bearing securities are similar enough within
the specified categories to aggregate the securities for presentation purposes.

44 

Table of Contents   

Principal Amount by Expected Maturity 
Average Interest Rates 
(Dollars in millions) 

Cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value.
The loan payable to banks approximates fair value.

Equity Price Risk.   We have a diversified marketable securities portfolio that includes equity
securities held by mutual and exchange-traded fund shares that are subject to equity price risk. We
have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry
and geography, and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our
investments. A 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and equity
mutual fund and exchange-traded fund shares at September 26, 2010 would cause a decrease in the
carrying amounts of these securities of $270 million. At September 26, 2010, gross unrealized
losses of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual and exchange-traded fund shares were
$11 million. Although we consider these unrealized losses to be temporary, there is a risk that we
may incur net other-than-temporary impairment charges or realized losses on the values of these
securities if they do not recover in value within a reasonable period.

Foreign Exchange Risk.   We manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed
appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency
forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. Such derivative financial instruments
are viewed as hedging or risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading
purposes. Counterparties to our derivative contracts are all major institutions. In the event of
the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we
may be unable to settle transactions if the counterparty does not provide us with sufficient
collateral to secure its net settlement obligations to us, which could have a negative impact on
our results. At September 26, 2010, we had a net liability of $13 million related to foreign
currency option contracts that were designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on royalties
earned from certain international licensees on their sales of CDMA-based devices and a net
liability of $2 million related to foreign currency option contracts that have been rendered
ineffective as a result of changes in our forecast of royalty revenues. If our forecasted royalty
revenues were to decline by 50% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in
each of our hedged foreign currencies, we would incur a loss of approximately $16 million resulting
from a decrease in the fair value of the portion of our hedges that would be rendered ineffective.
In addition, we are subject to market risk on foreign currency option contracts that have been
deemed ineffective. If foreign exchange rates relevant to those contracts were to change
unfavorably by 20%, we would incur a loss of $20 million resulting from a decrease in the fair
value of our hedges. See  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1   The Company and Its
Significant Accounting Policies  for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies.

45 

Table of Contents   

At September 26, 2010, we had a fixed-rate short-term bank loan of $1.1 billion, which is
payable in full in Indian rupees in December 2010. The loan is payable in the functional currency
of our consolidated subsidiary that is party to the loan, however we are subject to foreign
currency translation risk, which may impact the amount of our liability for principal repayment and
interest expense we record in the future. If the foreign currency exchange rate were to change
unfavorably by 20%, additional interest expense would be negligible due to the short-term nature of
the loan. At September 26, 2010, we had an asset of $7 million related to foreign currency forward
contracts that were not designated as hedges of certain payments to be made in Indian rupees in
connection with the bank loan. We are subject to market risk on such contracts. If the foreign
exchange rates relevant to those contracts were to change unfavorably by 20%, we would incur a loss
of $57 million.

Financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the
functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may
affect reported earnings. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign
currency exchange rates. We may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and
liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency
transactions. As a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign
currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments.
While we may hedge certain transactions with non-United States customers, declines in currency
values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our
products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies.

Our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be
considered projections of future risks.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

Our consolidated financial statements at September 26, 2010 and September 27, 2009 and the
Report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, are included
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K on pages F-1 through F-32.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

None.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 

Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal
executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure
controls and procedures, as such terms are defined under Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Based on this evaluation, our
principal executive officer and our principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report.

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision
and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and
principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal
control over financial reporting based on the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our
evaluation under the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework , our management
concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 26,
2010.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the
consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, has also audited the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of September 26, 2010, as stated
in its report which appears on page F-1.

Inherent Limitations Over Internal Controls 

Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:

i. 
       
     pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; 

46 

Table of Contents   

ii. 
       
     provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and 

iii. 
       
     provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material
effect on the consolidated financial statements. 

Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving
financial reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of
human error and circumvention by collusion or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even an
effective internal control system may not prevent or detect material misstatements on a timely
basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the
risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during fiscal 2010 that
have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over
financial reporting.

Item 9B. Other Information 

None.

47 

Table of Contents   

PART III 

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 

The information required by this item regarding directors is incorporated by reference to our
Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection
with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held in 2011 (the  2011 Proxy Statement ) under the
heading  Election of Directors.  Information regarding executive officers is set forth in Item 1 of
Part I of this Report under the caption  Executive Officers.  The information regarding our code of
ethics is incorporated by reference to the 2011 Proxy Statement under the heading  Code of Ethics. 

Item 11. Executive Compensation 

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the 2011 Proxy Statement
under the heading  Executive Compensation and Related Information. 

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters 

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the 2011 Proxy Statement
under the headings  Equity Compensation Plan Information  and  Stock Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management. 

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the 2011 Proxy Statement
under the heading  Certain Relationships and Related Person Transactions. 

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the 2011 Proxy Statement
under the heading  Fees for Professional Services. 

48 

Table of Contents   

PART IV 

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

The following documents are filed as part of this report:

Financial statement schedules other than those listed above have been omitted because they are
either not required, not applicable or the information is otherwise included in the notes to the
consolidated financial statements.

(b) Exhibits:

49 

Table of Contents   

50 

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

November 3, 2010

QUALCOMM Incorporated 

By   
     /s/ Paul E. Jacobs

Paul E. Jacobs,  

Chief Executive Officer and Chairman  

51 

Table of Contents   

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated:

Signature  
       
      Title  
       
      Date  

/s/ Paul E. Jacobs

Paul E. Jacobs

Chief Executive Officer and Chairman 
(Principal Executive Officer)

November 3, 2010 

/s/ William E. Keitel

William E. Keitel

Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

November 3, 2010 

/s/ Barbara T. Alexander

Director 

November 3, 2010 

Barbara T. Alexander

/s/ Stephen M. Bennett

Director 

November 3, 2010 

Stephen M. Bennett

/s/ Donald Cruickshank

Director 

November 3, 2010 

Donald Cruickshank

/s/ Raymond V. Dittamore

Director 

November 3, 2010 

Raymond V. Dittamore

/s/ Thomas Horton

Director 

November 3, 2010 

Thomas Horton

/s/ Irwin Jacobs

Director 

November 3, 2010 

Irwin Jacobs

/s/ Robert E. Kahn

Director 

November 3, 2010 

Robert E. Kahn

/s/ Sherry Lansing

Director 

November 3, 2010 

Sherry Lansing

/s/ Duane A. Nelles

Director 

November 3, 2010 

Duane A. Nelles

/s/ Brent Scowcroft

Director 

November 3, 2010 

Brent Scowcroft

/s/ Marc I. Stern

Director 

November 3, 2010 

Marc I. Stern

52 

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of QUALCOMM Incorporated:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements listed in the index
appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
QUALCOMM Incorporated and its subsidiaries at September 26, 2010 and September 27, 2009 and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
September 26, 2010 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index
appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of September 26, 2010, based on criteria established in  Internal Control -
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO). The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements and financial
statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item
9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial
statement schedule and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our
integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a
material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have
a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

San Diego, California 
November 3, 2010

F-1 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

(In millions, except per share data) 

See accompanying notes.

F-2 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

(In millions, except per share data) 

See accompanying notes.

F-3 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

(In millions) 

See accompanying notes.

F-4 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 

(In millions) 

See accompanying notes.

F-5 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM
Incorporated 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Note 1. The Company and Its Significant Accounting Policies 

The Company.   QUALCOMM Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries (collectively
the Company or QUALCOMM), develop, design, manufacture and market digital wireless
telecommunications products and services. The Company is a leading developer and supplier of Code
Division Multiple Access (CDMA)-based integrated circuits and system software for wireless voice
and data communications, multimedia functions and global positioning system products to wireless
device and infrastructure manufacturers. The Company also manufactures and sells products based
upon Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing Access (OFDMA) technology. The Company grants
licenses to use portions of its intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent
rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, and
receives license fees as well as ongoing royalties based on sales by licensees of wireless
telecommunications equipment products incorporating its patented technologies. The Company sells
equipment, software and services to transportation and other companies to wirelessly connect their
assets and workforce. The Company provides software products and services for content enablement
across a wide variety of platforms and devices for the wireless industry. The Company provides
services to wireless operators to deliver multimedia content, including live television, in the
United States. The Company also makes strategic investments to support the global adoption of CDMA-
and OFDMA-based technologies and services.

Principles of Consolidation.   The Company s consolidated financial statements include the
assets, liabilities and operating results of majority-owned subsidiaries. In addition, the Company
consolidates its investments in two less than majority-owned variable interest entities as the
Company is the primary beneficiary. The ownership of the other interest holders of consolidated
subsidiaries and variable interest entities is not presented separately in the consolidated balance
sheets or statements of operations as these amounts are negligible for the fiscal years presented.
The Company does not hold significant variable interests in any variable interest entities. All
significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Certain of the Company s
consolidated subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements one month in
arrears to facilitate the timely inclusion of such entities in the Company s consolidated financial
statements.

Financial Statement Preparation.   The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and the disclosure of contingent amounts in the
Company s consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ
from those estimates. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current
year presentation.

Fiscal Year.   The Company operates and reports using a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the
last Sunday in September. The fiscal years ended September 26, 2010, September 27, 2009 and
September 28, 2008 included 52 weeks.

Revenue Recognition.   The Company derives revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit
products, royalties and license fees for its intellectual property, messaging and other services
and related hardware sales, software development and licensing and related services, software
hosting services and services related to delivery of multimedia content. The timing of revenue
recognition and the amount of revenue actually recognized in each case depends upon a variety of
factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of the Company s
deliverables and obligations.

For transactions entered into prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company allocated
revenue for transactions that included multiple elements to each unit of accounting based on its
relative fair value using vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE). The price charged when the
element was sold separately generally determined fair value. When the Company had objective
evidence of the fair values of undelivered elements but not delivered elements, the Company
allocated revenue first to the fair value of the undelivered elements, and the residual revenue was
then allocated to the delivered elements. If the fair value of any undelivered element included in
a multiple element arrangement could not be objectively determined, revenue was deferred until all
elements were delivered or services were performed, or until fair value could be objectively
determined for any remaining undelivered elements. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2010,
the Company elected to early adopt the Financial Accounting Standards Board s (FASB) amended
accounting guidance for revenue recognition that eliminates the use of the residual method and
requires entities to allocate revenue using the relative selling price method. For substantially
all
of the arrangements with multiple deliverables, the Company continues to use VSOE to allocate the
selling price to each deliverable. The Company determines VSOE based on its normal pricing and
discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold separately. As a result of the
amended guidance, in certain limited instances when VSOE cannot be established, the Company first
attempts to establish the selling price based on third-party

F-6 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

evidence (TPE). If TPE is not
available, the Company estimates the selling price of the product or service as if it were sold on
a standalone basis. The adoption of the new guidance did not have a material impact on the timing
or pattern of revenue recognition.

Revenues from sales of the Company s products are recognized at the time of shipment, or when
title and risk of loss pass to the customer and other criteria for revenue recognition are met, if
later. Revenues from providing services, including software hosting services and the delivery of
multimedia content, are recognized when earned.

The Company licenses or otherwise provides rights to use portions of its intellectual property
portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and
sale of certain wireless products. Licensees typically pay a license fee in one or more
installments and ongoing royalties based on their sales of products incorporating or using the
Company s licensed intellectual property. License fees are recognized over the estimated period of
benefit to the licensee, typically five to fifteen years. The Company earns royalties on such
licensed products sold worldwide by its licensees at the time that the licensees  sales occur. The
Company s licensees, however, do not report and pay royalties owed for sales in any given quarter
until after the conclusion of that quarter. The Company recognizes royalty revenues based on
royalties reported by licensees during the quarter and when other revenue recognition criteria are
met.

Revenues from long-term contracts are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of
accounting, based on costs incurred compared with total estimated costs. The
percentage-of-completion method relies on estimates of total contract revenue and costs. Revenues
and profits are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Revisions in profit
estimates are charged or credited to income in the period in which the facts that give rise to the
revision become known. If actual contract costs are greater than expected, reduction of contract
profit would be required. Estimated contract losses are recognized when determined.

The Company provides both perpetual and renewable time-based software licenses. Revenues from
software license fees are recognized when revenue recognition criteria are met and, if applicable,
when vendor-specific objective evidence exists to allocate the total license fee to elements of
multiple-element software arrangements, including post-contract customer support. Post-contract
support is recognized ratably over the term of the related contract. When contracts contain
multiple elements wherein the only undelivered element is post-contract customer support and
vendor-specific objective evidence of the fair value of post-contract customer support does not
exist, revenue from the entire arrangement is recognized ratably over the support period. The
amount or timing of the Company s software license revenue may differ as a result of changes in
these judgments or estimates.

The Company records reductions to revenue for customer incentive programs, including special
pricing agreements and other volume-related rebate programs. Certain reductions to revenues for
customer incentives are based on a number of factors, including the contractual provisions of the
customer agreements and the Company s assumptions related to historical and projected customer
sales volumes, market share and inventory levels.

Unearned revenues consist primarily of license fees for intellectual property and software
products, hardware product sales with continuing performance obligations and billings on
uncompleted contracts in excess of incurred cost and accrued profit.

Concentrations.   A significant portion of the Company s revenues is concentrated with a limited
number of customers. Revenues from two customers of the Company s QCT and QTL segments each
comprised an aggregate of 15% and 10% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010, compared to
18% and 13% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 16% and 14% of total consolidated
revenues in fiscal 2008, respectively. Aggregated accounts receivable from three customers
comprised 42% of gross accounts receivable at September 26, 2010. Aggregated accounts receivable
from three customers comprised 48% of gross accounts receivable at September 27, 2009.

Revenues from international customers were approximately 95%, 94% and 91% of total
consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Cost of Equipment and Services Revenues.   Cost of equipment and services revenues is primarily
comprised of the cost of equipment revenues, the cost of messaging and multimedia content delivery
services revenues and the cost of development and other services revenues. Cost of equipment
revenues consists of the cost of equipment sold, the amortization of certain intangible assets,
including license fees and patents, and sustaining engineering costs,
including personnel and related costs. Cost of messaging and multimedia content delivery
services revenues consists principally of satellite transponder costs, network operations expenses,
including personnel and related costs, depreciation, content costs and airtime charges by
telecommunications operators. Cost of development and other services revenues primarily includes
personnel costs and related expenses.

F-7 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Shipping and Handling Costs.   Costs incurred for shipping and handling are included in cost of
equipment and services revenues at the time the related revenue is recognized. Amounts billed to a
customer for shipping and handling are reported as revenue.

Research and Development.   Costs incurred in research and development activities are expensed
as incurred, except certain software development costs capitalized after technological feasibility
of the software is established.

Marketing.   Cooperative marketing programs reimburse customers for marketing activities for
certain of the Company s products and services, subject to defined criteria. Cooperative marketing
costs are recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses to the extent that a marketing
benefit separate from the revenue transaction can be identified and supported by objective evidence
and the cash paid does not exceed the fair value of that marketing benefit received. Any excess of
cash paid over the fair value of the marketing benefit received is recorded as a reduction in
revenues in the same period the related revenue is recorded. Cooperative marketing expense is
recorded as incurred.

Income Taxes.   The asset and liability approach is used to recognize deferred tax assets and
liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying
amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. Tax law and rate changes are reflected in
income in the period such changes are enacted. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce
the deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company
includes interest and penalties related to income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits,
within the provision for income taxes.

The Company s income tax returns are based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to
examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. In addition, the calculation
of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax
regulations. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The
first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of
available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on
audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is
to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized
upon settlement. While the Company believes it has appropriate support for the positions taken on
its tax returns, the Company regularly assesses the potential outcomes of examinations by tax
authorities in determining the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. The Company continually
assesses the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjusts the income tax provision,
income taxes payable and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts that give rise to a
revision become known.

The Company recognizes windfall tax benefits associated with the exercise of stock options
directly to stockholders  equity only when realized. A windfall tax benefit occurs when the actual
tax benefit realized by the Company upon an employee s disposition of a share-based award exceeds
the deferred tax asset, if any, associated with the award that the Company had recorded. When
assessing whether a tax benefit relating to share-based compensation has been realized, the Company
follows the tax law ordering method, under which current year share-based compensation deductions
are assumed to be utilized before net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes.

Cash Equivalents.   The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities
of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are comprised of money market
funds, certificates of deposit, commercial paper and government agencies  securities. The carrying
amounts approximate fair value due to the short maturities of these instruments.

Marketable Securities.   The appropriate classification of marketable securities is determined
at the time of purchase and reevaluated as of each balance sheet date. Marketable securities
include available-for-sale securities, securities for which the Company has elected the fair value
option and certain time deposits. The Company classifies marketable securities as current or
noncurrent based on the nature of the securities and their availability for use in current
operations. Actively traded marketable securities are stated at fair value as determined by the
security s most recently traded price at the balance sheet date. If securities are not actively
traded, fair value is determined using other valuation techniques, such as matrix pricing. The net
unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities are reported as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of income
tax. The unrealized gains or losses on securities for which the Company has elected the fair
value option are recognized in net investment income (loss). The realized gains and losses on
marketable securities are determined using the specific identification method.

F-8 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

At each balance sheet date, the Company assesses available-for-sale securities in an
unrealized loss position to determine whether the unrealized loss is other than temporary. The
Company considers factors including: the significance of the decline in value compared to the cost
basis, underlying factors contributing to a decline in the prices of securities in a single asset
class, how long the market value of the security has been less than its cost basis, the security s
relative performance versus its peers, sector or asset class, expected market volatility and the
market and economy in general, analyst recommendations and price targets, views of external
investment managers, news or financial information that has been released specific to the investee
and the outlook for the overall industry in which the investee operates.

In April 2009, the FASB amended the existing guidance on determining whether an impairment for
an investment in debt securities is other than temporary. Effective in the third quarter of fiscal
2009, if the debt security s market value is below amortized cost and the Company either intends to
sell the security or it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the
security before its anticipated recovery, the Company records an other-than-temporary impairment
charge to investment income (loss) for the entire amount of the impairment. For the remaining debt
securities, if an other-than-temporary impairment exists, the Company separates the
other-than-temporary impairment into the portion of the loss related to credit factors, or the
credit loss portion, and the portion of the loss that is not related to credit factors, or the
noncredit loss portion. The credit loss portion is the difference between the amortized cost of the
security and the Company s best estimate of the present value of the cash flows expected to be
collected from the debt security. The noncredit loss portion is the residual amount of the
other-than-temporary impairment. The credit loss portion is recorded as a charge to investment
income (loss), and the noncredit loss portion is recorded as a separate component of other
comprehensive income (loss). Prior to the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the entire
other-than-temporary impairment loss was recognized in earnings for all debt securities.

When calculating the present value of expected cash flows to determine the credit loss portion
of the other-than-temporary impairment, the Company estimates the amount and timing of projected
cash flows, the probability of default and the timing and amount of recoveries on a
security-by-security basis. These calculations use inputs primarily based on observable market
data, such as credit default swap spreads, historical default and recovery statistics, rating
agency data, credit ratings and other data relevant to analyzing the collectibility of the
security. The amortized cost basis of a debt security is adjusted for any credit loss portion of
the impairment recorded to earnings. The difference between the new cost basis and cash flows
expected to be collected is accreted to investment income (loss) over the remaining expected life
of the security.

Securities that are accounted for as equity securities include investments in common stock,
equity mutual and exchange-traded funds and debt mutual funds. For equity securities, the Company
considers the loss relative to the expected volatility and the likelihood of recovery over a
reasonable period of time. If events and circumstances indicate that a decline in the value of an
equity security has occurred and is other than temporary, the Company records a charge to
investment income (loss) for the difference between fair value and cost at the balance sheet date.
Additionally, if the Company has either the intent to sell the security or does not have both the
intent and the ability to hold the equity security until its anticipated recovery, the Company
records a charge to investment income (loss) for the difference between fair value and cost at the
balance sheet date.

Allowances for Doubtful Accounts.   The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for
estimated losses resulting from the inability of the Company s customers to make required payments.
The Company considers the following factors when determining if collection of a fee is reasonably
assured: customer credit-worthiness, past transaction history with the customer, current economic
industry trends and changes in customer payment terms. If the Company has no previous experience
with the customer, the Company typically obtains reports from various credit organizations to
ensure that the customer has a history of paying its creditors. The Company may also request
financial information, including financial statements or other documents to ensure that the
customer has the means of making payment. If these factors do not indicate collection is reasonably
assured, revenue is deferred until collection becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon
receipt of cash. If the financial condition of the Company s customers was to deteriorate,
adversely affecting their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be required.

Inventories.   Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market (replacement cost, not to
exceed net realizable value) using the first-in, first-out method. Recoverability of inventory is
assessed based on review of committed
purchase orders from customers, as well as purchase commitment projections provided by
customers, among other things.

F-9 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Property, Plant and Equipment.   Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost and
depreciated or amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives.
Buildings and building improvements are depreciated over 30 years and 15 years, respectively.
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the
remaining term of the related lease, not to exceed 15 years. Other property, plant and equipment
have useful lives ranging from 2 to 25 years. Direct external and internal costs of developing
software for internal use are capitalized subsequent to the preliminary stage of development.
Leased property meeting certain capital lease criteria is capitalized, and the net present value of
the related lease payments is recorded as a liability. Amortization of capital leased assets is
recorded using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful lives or the lease
terms. Maintenance, repairs, and minor renewals and betterments are charged to expense as incurred.

Upon the retirement or disposition of property, plant and equipment, the related cost and
accumulated depreciation or amortization are removed, and a gain or loss is recorded.

Derivatives.   The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to
manage foreign exchange risk for certain foreign currency transactions and probable anticipated
foreign currency revenue transactions. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair values of
foreign currency forward and option contracts that are not designated as hedging instruments are
recorded in investment income (expense) as gains (losses) on derivative instruments. Gains and
losses arising from the effective portion of foreign currency forward and option contracts that are
designated as cash-flow hedging instruments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss) as gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net of tax. The amounts are subsequently
reclassified into revenues in the same period in which the underlying transactions affect the
Company s earnings. The fair value of the Company s foreign currency option contracts used to hedge
foreign currency revenue transactions recorded in other current assets was $4 million and $29
million at September 26, 2010 and September 27, 2009, respectively, and the value recorded in other
current liabilities was $19 million and $58 million at September 26, 2010 and September 27, 2009,
respectively, substantially all of which were designated as cash-flow hedging instruments. The fair
value recorded in other current assets related to the Company s foreign currency forward contracts
used to manage foreign exchange risk for certain forecasted payments to be made in Indian rupees in
connection with the loan payable to banks, which were not designated as hedging instruments, was $7
million at September 26, 2010.

In connection with its stock repurchase program, the Company may sell put options that require
the Company to repurchase shares of its common stock at fixed prices. The premiums received from
put options are recorded as other current liabilities. Changes in the fair value of put options are
recorded in investment income (expense) as gains (losses) on derivative instruments. At September
26, 2010 and September 27, 2009, no put options were outstanding.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.   Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price and
related costs over the value assigned to the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of
businesses acquired. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and in interim periods if certain
events occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired.

Acquired intangible assets other than goodwill are amortized over their useful lives unless
the lives are determined to be indefinite. Acquired intangible assets are carried at cost, less
accumulated amortization. For intangible assets purchased in a business combination or received in
a non-monetary exchange, the estimated fair values of the assets received (or, for non-monetary
exchanges, the estimated fair values of the assets transferred if more clearly evident) are used to
establish the cost bases, except when neither of the values of the assets received or the assets
transferred in non-monetary exchanges are determinable within reasonable limits. Valuation
techniques consistent with the market approach, income approach and/or cost approach are used to
measure fair value. Amortization of finite-lived intangible assets is computed over the useful
lives of the respective assets.

F-10 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Weighted-average amortization periods for finite-lived intangible assets, by class, were as
follows at September 26, 2010 and September 27, 2009:

Wireless licenses

5 years 

Marketing-related

18 years 

Technology-based

14 years 

Customer-related

5 years 

Other

22 years 

Total intangible assets

14 years 

Impairment of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets.   The Company assesses potential impairments to
its long-lived assets or asset groups when there is evidence that events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recovered. An
impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the long-lived asset or asset group is
not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of a long-lived asset or asset
group is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result
from the use and eventual disposition of the asset or asset group. Any required impairment loss is
measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of a long-lived asset or asset group exceeds
its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying value of the related asset or asset
group and a charge to operating results. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested
annually for impairment and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying
value of the intangible assets may be impaired.

Securities Lending.   The Company may engage in transactions in which certain fixed-income and
equity securities are loaned to selected broker-dealers. At September 26, 2010 and September 27,
2009, there were no securities loaned under the Company s securities lending program. Cash
collateral is held and invested by one or more securities lending agents on behalf of the Company.
The Company monitors the fair value of securities loaned and the collateral received and obtains
additional collateral as necessary  .  

Litigation.   The Company is currently involved in certain legal proceedings. The Company
records its best estimate of a loss related to pending litigation when the loss is considered
probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Where a range of loss can be reasonably
estimated with no best estimate in the range, the Company records the minimum estimated liability
related to the claim. As additional information becomes available, the Company assesses the
potential liability related to the Company s pending litigation and revises its estimates. The
Company s policy is to expense legal costs associated with defending itself as incurred.

Share-Based Compensation.   Share-based compensation expense for equity-classified awards,
principally related to stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs), is measured at the grant
date, based on the estimated fair value of the award and is recognized over the employee s
requisite service period.

The grant-date fair values of employee stock options are estimated using the lattice binomial
option-pricing model. The weighted-average estimated fair values of employee stock options granted
during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $12.40, $14.27 and $15.97 per share, respectively. The
following table presents the weighted-average assumptions (annualized percentages) used to estimate
the fair values of employee stock options granted in the periods presented:

The Company uses the implied volatility of market-traded options in the Company s stock
to determine the expected volatility. The term structure of volatility is used up to approximately
two years, and the Company uses the implied volatility of the option with the longest time to
maturity for periods beyond two years. The risk-free interest rate is based upon observed interest
rates appropriate for the terms of the Company s employee stock options. The Company does not
target a specific dividend yield for its dividend payments but is required to assume a dividend
yield as an input to the binomial model. The dividend yield is based on the Company s history and
expectation of future dividend payouts and may be subject to substantial change in the future. The
post-vest forfeiture rate and

F-11 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

suboptimal exercise factor are based on the Company s historical
option cancellation and employee exercise information, respectively.

The expected life of employee stock options is a derived output of the binomial model and is
impacted by all of the underlying assumptions used by the Company. The weighted-average expected
life of employee stock options
granted, as derived from the binomial model, was 5.5 years, 5.6 years and 5.9 years during
fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

The grant-date fair values of RSUs are estimated based on the fair market values of the
underlying stock on the dates of grant. The weighted-average estimated fair values of employee RSUs
granted during fiscal 2010 and 2008 were $35.61 and $54.42 per share, respectively. No RSUs were
granted in fiscal 2009. Shares are issued on the vesting dates net of the amount of shares needed
to satisfy statutory tax withholding requirements to be paid by the Company on behalf of the
employees. As a result, the actual number of shares issued will be fewer than the actual number of
RSUs outstanding.

Share-based compensation expense is adjusted to exclude amounts related to share-based awards
that are expected to be forfeited. The annual pre-vest forfeiture rate for stock options and RSUs
granted in fiscal 2010 was estimated to be approximately 3% based on historical experience. The
effect of pre-vest forfeitures on the Company s recorded expense in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 for
awards granted prior to fiscal 2010 was negligible due to the predominantly monthly vesting of
stock options that were granted in those periods.

Total estimated share-based compensation expense, related to all of the Company s share-based
awards, was comprised as follows (in millions):

The Company recorded $119 million, $106 million and $135 million in share-based
compensation expense during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to share-based awards
granted during those periods. The remaining share-based compensation expense primarily related to
stock option awards granted in earlier periods. In addition, for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, $45
million, $79 million and $408 million, respectively, were reclassified to reduce net cash provided
by operating activities with an offsetting increase in net cash used by financing activities in the
consolidated statements of cash flows to reflect the incremental tax benefits from stock options
exercised in those periods. The amount of compensation cost capitalized related to share-based
payment awards was negligible for all periods presented.

Foreign Currency.   Foreign subsidiaries operating in a local currency environment use the local
currency as the functional currency. Resulting translation gains or losses are recognized as a
component of other comprehensive income. Where the United States dollar is the functional currency,
resulting translation gains or losses are recognized in the statements of operations. Transaction
gains or losses related to balances denominated in a different currency than the functional
currency are recognized in the statement of operations. Net foreign currency transaction gains
included in the Company s statement of operations were negligible in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008.

Comprehensive Income.   Comprehensive income is defined as the change in equity of a business
enterprise during a period from transactions and other events and circumstances from non-owner
sources, including foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized gains and losses on
marketable securities. The Company presents comprehensive income in its consolidated statements of
stockholders  equity. The reclassification adjustment for net realized gains results from the
recognition of the net realized gains in the statements of operations when marketable securities
are sold or derivative instruments are settled. The reclassification adjustment for
other-than-temporary losses on marketable securities included in net income results from the
recognition of the unrealized losses in the statements of operations when they are no longer viewed
as temporary. The portion of other-than-temporary impairment losses related to noncredit factors
and subsequent changes in fair value included in comprehensive income is shown separately from
other unrealized gains or losses on marketable securities.

Components of accumulated other comprehensive income consisted of the following (in millions):

F-12 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Total comprehensive income consisted of the following (in millions):

At September 26, 2010, accumulated other comprehensive income includes $36 million of
other-than-temporary losses on marketable debt securities related to factors other than credit, net
of income taxes.

Earnings Per Common Share.   Basic earnings per common share is computed by dividing net income
by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted
earnings per common share is computed by dividing net income by the combination of dilutive common
share equivalents, comprised of shares issuable under the Company s share-based compensation plans
and shares subject to written put options, and the weighted-average number of common shares
outstanding during the reporting period. Dilutive common share equivalents include the dilutive
effect of in-the-money share equivalents, which are calculated based on the average share price for
each period using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, the exercise price of
an option, the amount of compensation cost, if any, for future service that the Company has not yet
recognized, and the amount of estimated tax benefits that would be recorded in paid-in capital, if
any, when the award is settled are assumed to be used to repurchase shares in the current period.
The incremental dilutive common share equivalents, calculated using the treasury stock method, for
fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 were 15,652,000, 16,900,000 and 27,618,000, respectively.

Employee stock options to purchase 149,007,000, 136,309,000 and 102,397,000 shares of common
stock during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the
computation of diluted earnings per common share because the effect would be anti-dilutive. In
addition, 235,000 and 2,388,000 shares of other
common stock equivalents outstanding in fiscal 2010 and 2008, respectively, were not included
in the computation of diluted earnings per common share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.

F-13 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Note 2. Fair Value Measurements 

Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to
transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants as of the measurement date.
Applicable accounting guidance provides an established hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair
value that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by
requiring that the most observable inputs be used when available. Observable inputs are inputs that
market participants would use in valuing the asset or liability and are developed based on market
data obtained from sources independent of the Company. Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect
the Company s assumptions about the factors that market participants would use in valuing the asset
or liability. There are three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value:

Level 1 includes financial instruments for which quoted market prices for identical
instruments are available in active markets. 

Level 2 includes financial instruments for which there are inputs other than quoted
prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the instrument such as quoted
prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or
similar instruments in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions
(less active markets) or model-driven valuations in which significant inputs are
observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market
data. 

Level 3 includes financial instruments for which fair value is derived from
valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable,
including the Company s own assumptions. The pricing models incorporate transaction
details such as contractual terms, maturity and, in certain instances, timing and
amount of future cash flows, as well as assumptions related to liquidity and credit
valuation adjustments of marketplace participants. 

Assets and liabilities are classified based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the
fair value measurements. The Company reviews the fair value hierarchy classification on a quarterly
basis. Changes in the observability of valuation inputs may result in a reclassification of levels
for certain securities within the fair value hierarchy.

The following table presents the Company s fair value hierarchy for assets and liabilities
measured at fair value on a recurring basis at September 26, 2010 (in millions):

(1) 
       
     Comprised of the Company s deferred compensation plan liability and related assets which are invested in mutual funds. 

F-14 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Marketable Securities.   With the exception of auction rate securities, the Company obtains
pricing information from quoted market prices, recognized independent pricing vendors or multiple
pricing vendors, or quotes from brokers/dealers. The Company conducts reviews of its primary
pricing vendors to validate that the inputs used in that vendor s pricing process are deemed to be
observable.

The fair value of other government-related securities and investment- and non-investment-grade
corporate bonds and notes is generally determined using standard observable inputs, including
matrix pricing or reported trades, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads,
two-sided markets, benchmark securities, bids and/or offers.

The fair value of debt mutual funds is determined based on published net asset values. Debt
mutual funds are included in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy if the net asset values are
reported other than daily or if the mutual funds are considered illiquid. The Company looks to the
characteristics of the underlying collateral to assess the fund s valuation and to determine
whether fair value is determined using observable or unobservable inputs.

The fair value of mortgage- and asset-backed securities is derived from the use of matrix
pricing or cash flow pricing models in which inputs are observable, including contractual terms,
maturity, prepayment speeds, credit rating and securitization structure, to determine the timing
and amount of future cash flows. Certain mortgage- and asset-backed securities, principally those
that are rated below AAA, require use of significant unobservable inputs to estimate fair value,
including significant assumptions about prioritization of the payment schedule, default likelihood,
recovery rates and prepayment speed.

The fair value of auction rate securities is estimated by the Company using a discounted cash
flow model that incorporates transaction details such as contractual terms, maturity and timing and
amount of future cash flows, as well as assumptions related to liquidity and credit valuation
adjustments of market participants. Though the vast majority of the securities are pools of student
loans guaranteed by the U.S. government, prepayment speeds and illiquidity discounts are considered
significant unobservable inputs. Therefore, auction rate securities are included in Level 3.

Derivative Instruments.   Derivative instruments include foreign currency option and forward
contracts to manage foreign exchange risk for certain foreign currency transactions. Derivative
instruments are valued using standard calculations/models that are primarily based on observable
inputs, including foreign currency exchange rates, volatilities and interest rates. Therefore,
derivative instruments are included in Level 2.

Activity between Levels of the Fair Value Hierarchy.   There were no significant transfers
between Level 1 and Level 2 during fiscal 2010 or fiscal 2009. When a determination is made to
classify an asset or liability within Level 3, the determination is based upon the significance of
the unobservable inputs to the overall fair value measurement. The following table includes the
activity for marketable securities classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy (in
millions):

F-15 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

The Company s policy is to recognize transfers into and out of levels within the fair
value hierarchy at the end of the fiscal month in which the actual event or change in circumstances
that caused the transfer occurs. Transfers into Level 3 in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 primarily
consisted of debt securities with significant inputs that became unobservable as a result of an
increased likelihood of a shortfall in contractual cash flows or a significant downgrade in the
credit ratings.

Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements.   The Company measures certain assets at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis. These assets include cost and equity method investments when they are deemed to
be other-than-temporarily impaired, assets acquired and liabilities assumed in an acquisition or in
a nonmonetary exchange, and property, plant and equipment and intangible assets that are written
down to fair value when they are held for sale or determined to be impaired. During fiscal 2010 and
2009, the Company did not have any significant assets or liabilities that were measured at fair
value on a nonrecurring basis in periods subsequent to initial recognition.

Note 3. Marketable Securities 

Marketable securities were comprised as follows (in millions):

In fiscal 2010, the Company made an investment in a debt mutual fund for which the
Company elected the fair value option. The investment would have otherwise been recorded using the
equity method. The debt mutual fund has no single maturity date. At September 26, 2010, the Company
had an effective ownership interest in the debt mutual fund of 17%. An increase in fair value
associated with this investment of $17 million was recognized in net investment income in fiscal
2010. The Company believes that recording the investment at fair value and reporting the investment
as a marketable security is preferable to applying the equity method because the Company is able to
redeem its shares at net asset value, which is determined daily. At September 26, 2010, marketable
securities also included $400 million of time deposits that mature in December 2010.

F-16 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

At September 26, 2010, the contractual maturities of available-for-sale debt securities were
as follows (in millions):

Securities with no single maturity date included mortgage- and asset-backed securities,
auction rate securities, non-investment-grade debt securities and debt mutual funds.

The Company recorded realized gains and losses on sales of available-for-sale marketable
securities as follows (in millions):

Available-for-sale securities were comprised as follows (in millions):

The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair values of the Company s
investments in individual securities that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position deemed
to be temporary for less than 12 months and for more than 12 months, aggregated by investment
category (in millions):

F-17 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

At September 26, 2010, the Company concluded that the unrealized losses were temporary.
Further, for common and preferred stock, equity mutual and exchange-traded funds and debt mutual
funds with unrealized losses, the Company has the ability and the intent to hold such securities
until they recover, which is expected to be within a reasonable period of time. For debt securities
with unrealized losses, the Company does not have the intent to sell, nor is it more likely than
not that the Company will be required to sell, such securities before recovery or maturity.

The following table shows the activity for the credit loss portion of other-than-temporary
impairments on debt securities held by the Company (in millions):

September 26,  

September 27,  

2010  

2009  

Beginning balance of credit losses

$ 
     170 

$ 

Credit losses remaining in retained earnings upon adoption

186 

Additional credit losses recognized on securities previously impaired

1 

2 

Credit losses recognized on securities previously not impaired

1 

17 

Reductions in credit losses related to securities sold

(39 
     ) 

(21 
     ) 

Accretion of credit losses due to an increase in cash flows
expected to be collected

(24 
     ) 

Reductions in credit losses related to previously impaired securities
that the Company intends to sell

(14 
     ) 

Ending balance of credit losses

$ 
     109 

$ 
     170 

Note 4. Composition of Certain Financial Statement Captions 

Accounts Receivable.  

F-18 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Inventories.  

Property, Plant and Equipment.  

Depreciation and amortization expense related to property, plant and equipment for fiscal
2010, 2009 and 2008 was $437 million, $428 million and $372 million, respectively. The gross book
values of property under capital leases included in buildings and improvements were $227 million
and $190 million at September 26, 2010 and September 27, 2009, respectively. These capital leases
principally related to base station towers and buildings. Amortization of assets recorded under
capital leases is included in depreciation expense. Capital lease additions during fiscal 2010,
2009 and 2008 were $40 million, $50 million and $51 million, respectively.

At September 26, 2010 and September 27, 2009, buildings and improvements and leasehold
improvements with aggregate net book value of $38 million and $56 million, respectively, including
accumulated depreciation and amortization of $8 million and $9 million, respectively, were leased
to third parties or held for lease to third parties. Future minimum rental income on facilities
leased to others in fiscal 2011 to 2014 is expected to be $5 million, $4 million, $2 million and $1
million, respectively, and zero thereafter.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.   The Company s reportable segment assets do not include
goodwill. The Company allocates goodwill to its reporting units for annual impairment testing
purposes. Goodwill was allocable to reporting units included in the Company s reportable segments
and to its QMT division, a nonreportable segment, as described in Note 10 as follows (in millions):

F-19 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

The components of intangible assets were as follows (in millions):

Technology-based intangible assets increased during fiscal 2010 primarily due to the
assignment of certain patents to the Company pursuant to a license agreement entered into in the
first quarter of fiscal 2010. The estimated fair value of these patents was determined using the
income approach.

All of the Company s intangible assets, other than certain spectrum licenses in the amount of
$762 million and goodwill, are subject to amortization. Amortization expense related to these
intangible assets for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $227 million, $207 million and $84 million,
respectively, and amortization expense is expected to be $228 million, $217 million, $195 million,
$181 million and $179 million for fiscal 2011 to 2015, respectively, and $1.3 billion thereafter.

Other Current Liabilities.  

Note 5. Investment Income (Loss) 

Investment income (loss), net was comprised as follows (in millions):

F-20 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Impairment losses on marketable securities for fiscal 2010 did not contain any amount
related to the noncredit portion of losses on debt securities recognized in other comprehensive
income. Impairment losses on marketable securities for fiscal 2009 were comprised of total
other-than-temporary impairment losses of $747 million less $4 million related to the noncredit
portion of losses on debt securities recognized in other comprehensive income. The
other-than-temporary losses on marketable securities were generally caused by a prolonged
disruption in U.S. and foreign credit and financial markets that depressed securities values.

Note 6. Income Taxes 

The components of the income tax provision were as follows (in millions):

The foreign component of the income tax provision consists primarily of foreign
withholding taxes on royalty income included in United States earnings.

The components of income before income taxes by United States and foreign jurisdictions were
as follows (in millions):

The following is a reconciliation of the expected statutory federal income tax provision
to the Company s actual income tax provision (in millions):

The revaluation of deferred taxes represents the impact of paying current taxes at a
higher state effective tax rate than the effective tax rate that will be in effect when the
resulting deferred tax asset or liability is scheduled to reverse. The Company has not recorded a
deferred tax liability of approximately $4.2 billion related to the United States federal and state
income taxes and foreign withholding taxes on approximately $10.6 billion of undistributed earnings
of certain non-United States subsidiaries indefinitely invested outside the United States. Should
the Company decide to repatriate the foreign earnings, the Company would have to adjust the income
tax provision in the period management determined that the earnings will no longer be indefinitely
invested outside the United States.

F-21 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

The Company files income tax returns in the United States federal jurisdiction and various
state and foreign jurisdictions. The tax provision was increased by $3 million during fiscal 2010
to adjust the Company s prior year estimates of uncertain tax positions as a result of various
federal, state and foreign tax audits. The Company is participating in the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS) Compliance Assurance Process, whereby the IRS and the Company endeavor to agree on the
treatment of all issues in the fiscal 2010 tax return prior to the return being filed. The IRS
completed its examination of the Company s tax return for fiscal 2008 and issued a full acceptance
letter for fiscal 2009 during the third quarter of fiscal 2010, resulting in an increase to the tax
provision of $20 million. The Company is no longer subject to United States federal income tax
examinations for years prior to fiscal 2010. The Company is subject to examination by the
California Franchise Tax Board for fiscal years after 2004 and is currently under examination for
fiscal 2005 through 2008. The Company is also subject to income taxes in other taxing jurisdictions
in the United States and around the world, many of which are open to tax examinations for periods
after fiscal 2000.

During fiscal 2009, the tax provision was reduced by $155 million to adjust the Company s
prior year estimates of uncertain tax positions as a result of various federal, state and foreign
tax audits.

The Company had deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as follows (in millions):

(1)  
       
     Included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. 

At September 26, 2010, the Company had unused federal net operating loss carryforwards of
$114 million expiring from 2021 through 2029, unused state net operating loss carryforwards of $284
million expiring from 2011 through 2030, and unused foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $40
million, which expire from 2012 through 2014. At September 26, 2010, the Company had unused tax
credits of $5 million in foreign jurisdictions, which expire in 2013, and state income tax credits
of $8 million, which do not expire. The Company does not expect its federal net operating loss
carryforwards and its state income tax credits to expire unused.

F-22 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

The Company believes, more likely than not, that it will have sufficient taxable income after
stock option related deductions to utilize the majority of its deferred tax assets. At September
26, 2010, the Company has provided a valuation allowance on certain foreign deferred tax assets,
state net operating losses and net capital losses of $24 million, $7 million and $8 million,
respectively. The valuation allowances reflect the uncertainty surrounding the Company s ability to
generate sufficient future taxable income in certain foreign and state tax jurisdictions to utilize
its net operating losses and the Company s ability to generate sufficient capital gains to utilize
all capital losses.

A summary of the changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits for fiscal 2010, 2009 and
2008 follows (in millions):

At September 26, 2010, unrecognized tax benefits of $202 million are expected to result
in cash payment in fiscal 2011 and were recorded in income taxes payable. Unrecognized tax benefits
at September 26, 2010 include $175 million for tax positions that, if recognized, would impact the
effective tax rate. The unrecognized tax benefits differ from the amount that would affect the
Company s effective tax rate primarily because the unrecognized tax benefits are included on a
gross basis and do not reflect secondary impacts such as the federal deduction for state taxes,
adjustments to deferred tax assets and the valuation allowance that might be required if the
Company s tax positions are sustained. The increase in unrecognized tax benefits in fiscal 2010
related primarily to tax positions taken in 2010 associated with the method used by the Company to
apportion income to states for fiscal 2006 through 2010. The Company does not believe that it is
reasonably possible that the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits at September 26, 2010 will
significantly increase or decrease in fiscal 2011. Interest expense related to uncertain tax
positions was negligible in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008. The amount of accrued interest and
penalties was negligible at September 26, 2010 and September 27, 2009.

Cash amounts paid for income taxes, net of refunds received, were $671 million, $516 million
and $360 million for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The income taxes paid are primarily
related to foreign withholding taxes.

Note 7. Capital Stock 

Preferred Stock.   The Company has 8,000,000 shares of preferred stock authorized for issuance
in one or more series, at a par value of $0.0001 per share. In conjunction with the distribution of
preferred share purchase rights, 4,000,000 shares of preferred stock are designated as Series A
Junior Participating Preferred Stock, and such shares are reserved for issuance upon exercise of
the preferred share purchase rights. At September 26, 2010 and September 27, 2009, no shares of
preferred stock were outstanding.

Preferred Share Purchase Rights Agreement.   The Company has a Preferred Share Purchase Rights
Agreement (Rights Agreement) to protect stockholders  interests in the event of a proposed takeover
of the Company. Under the original Rights Agreement, adopted on September 26, 1995, the Company
declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right (a Right) for each share of the Company s
common stock outstanding. Pursuant to the Rights Agreement, as amended and restated on December 7,
2006, each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company a one one-thousandth
share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, $0.0001 par value per share, subject to
adjustment for subsequent stock splits, at a purchase price of $180. The Rights are exercisable
only if a person or group (an Acquiring Person) acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of the
Company s outstanding shares of common stock without approval of the Board of Directors. Upon
exercise, holders, other than an Acquiring Person, will have the right, subject to termination, to
receive the Company s common stock or other securities, cash or other assets having a market value,
as defined, equal to twice such purchase price. The Rights, which expire on September 25, 2015, are
redeemable in whole, but not in part, at the Company s option prior to the time such Rights are
triggered for a price of $0.001 per Right.

F-23 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Stock Repurchase Program.   On March 1, 2010, the Company announced that it had been authorized
to repurchase up to $3.0 billion of the Company s common stock. The stock repurchase program has no
expiration date. When stock is repurchased and retired, the amount paid in excess of par value is
recorded to paid-in capital. During fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company repurchased and retired
79,789,000, 8,920,000 and 42,616,000 shares of common stock, respectively, for $3.0 billion, $284
million and $1.7 billion, respectively, before commissions and excluding $14 million of premiums
received related to put options that were exercised in fiscal 2008. At September 26, 2010,
approximately $1.7 billion remained authorized for repurchase under the Company s stock repurchase
program.

At September 26, 2010, September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008, no put options remained
outstanding. During fiscal 2008, the Company recognized gains of $6 million in investment income
due to decreases in the fair values of put options, including premiums received of $14 million.

Dividends.   The Company announced increases in its quarterly dividend per share of common stock
from $0.14 to $0.16 on March 11, 2008, from $0.16 to $0.17 on March 3, 2009, and from $0.17 to
$0.19 on March 1, 2010. Cash dividends announced in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in
millions, except per share data):

On October 13, 2010, the Company announced a cash dividend of $0.19 per share on the
Company s common stock, payable on December 22, 2010 to stockholders of record as of November 24,
2010, which will be reflected in the consolidated financial statements in the first quarter of
fiscal 2011.

Note 8. Employee Benefit Plans 

Employee Savings and Retirement Plan.   The Company has a 401(k) plan that allows eligible
employees to contribute up to 100% of their eligible compensation, subject to annual limits. The
Company matches a portion of the employee contributions and may, at its discretion, make additional
contributions based upon earnings. The Company s contribution expense
was $46 million in fiscal 2010 and 2009 and $45 million in fiscal 2008.

Equity Compensation Plans.   The 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the 2006 Plan) was adopted
during the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and replaced the 2001 Stock Option Plan and the 2001
Non-Employee Directors  Stock Option Plan and their predecessor plans (the Prior Plans). The 2006
Plan provides for the grant of incentive and non-qualified stock options, restricted stock units,
stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, performance units and shares and other stock-based
awards and is the source of shares issued under the Executive Retirement Matching Contribution Plan
(ERMCP). The share reserve under the 2006 Plan was approximately 418,284,000 at September 26, 2010,
including 13,000,000 shares that were approved by the Company s stockholders in March 2010. Shares
subject to any outstanding option under a Prior Plan that is terminated or cancelled (but not an
option under a Prior Plan that expires) following the date that the 2006 Plan was approved by
stockholders, and shares that are subject to an award under the ERMCP and are returned to the
Company because they fail to vest, will again become available for grant under the 2006 Plan. The
Board of Directors of the Company may amend or terminate the 2006 Plan at any time. Certain
amendments, including an increase in the share reserve, require stockholder approval.

During fiscal 2008, the Company assumed a total of approximately 1,462,000 outstanding stock
options under various stock-based incentive plans (the Assumed Plans) as a result of acquisitions.
The Assumed Plans were
suspended on the dates of acquisition, and no additional shares may be granted under those
plans. The Assumed Plans provided for the grant of both incentive stock options and non-qualified
stock options.

Net share-based awards, after forfeitures and cancellations, granted during fiscal 2010, 2009
and 2008 represented 1.2%, 2.2% and 2.7% of outstanding shares as of the beginning of each fiscal
year, respectively. Total share-based awards granted during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 represented
1.9%, 2.5% and 3.2%, respectively, of outstanding shares as of the end of each fiscal year.

Stock Options:  The Board of Directors may grant options to selected employees, directors and
consultants to the Company to purchase shares of the Company s common stock at a price not less
than the fair market value of the

F-24 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

stock at the date of grant. Generally, options vest over periods
not exceeding five years and are exercisable for up to ten years from the grant date. A summary of
stock option transactions for all equity compensation plans follows:

At September 26, 2010, total unrecognized estimated compensation expense related to
non-vested stock options granted prior to that date was $1.1 billion, which is expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.7 years. The total intrinsic value of stock options
exercised during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $208 million, $272 million and $1.3 billion,
respectively. The Company recorded cash received from the exercise of stock options of $565
million, $534 million and $1.1 billion and related tax benefits of $80 million, $106 million and
$492 million during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Upon option exercise, the Company
issues new shares of stock.

Restricted Stock Units:  RSUs are share awards that entitle the holder to receive shares of the
Company s common stock upon vesting. The RSUs include dividend-equivalent rights and generally vest
three years from the date of grant. A summary of RSU transactions for all equity compensation plans
follows:

At September 26, 2010, total unrecognized estimated compensation cost related to
non-vested RSUs granted prior to that date was $162 million, which is expected to be recognized
over a weighted-average period of 2.7 years.

Employee Stock Purchase Plans.   The Company has an employee stock purchase plan for eligible
employees to purchase shares of common stock at 85% of the lower of the fair market value on the
first or the last day of each offering period, which is generally six months. Employees may
authorize the Company to withhold up to 15% of
their compensation during any offering period, subject to certain limitations. In fiscal 2008,
the Company amended the employee stock purchase plan to include a non-423(b) plan. The employee
stock purchase plan authorizes up to approximately 46,709,000 shares to be granted. At September
26, 2010, approximately 22,189,000 shares were reserved for future issuance. Of the shares
authorized and reserved for future issuance, 22,000,000 are subject to stockholder approval, which
is expected to occur at the next annual stockholders  meeting in March 2011. During fiscal 2010,
2009 and 2008, approximately 3,782,000, 3,654,000 and 2,951,000 shares, respectively, were issued
under the plans at an average price of $32.81, $29.72 and $35.96 per share, respectively.

At September 26, 2010, total unrecognized estimated compensation cost related to non-vested
purchase rights granted prior to that date was $35 million. The Company recorded cash received from
the exercise of purchase rights of $124 million, $109 million and $106 million during fiscal 2010,
2009 and 2008, respectively.

Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies 

Litigation.    Tessera, Inc. v. QUALCOMM Incorporated:  On April 17, 2007, Tessera filed a patent
infringement lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Eastern Division of Texas and a
complaint with the United States International Trade Commission (ITC) pursuant to Section 337 of
the Tariff Act of 1930 against the Company and other companies, alleging infringement of two
patents relating to semiconductor packaging structures and seeking monetary damages and injunctive
and other relief. The District Court action is stayed pending resolution of the ITC

F-25 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

proceeding,
including appeals. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office s (USPTO) Central Reexamination Unit has
issued office actions rejecting all of the asserted patent claims on the grounds that they are
invalid in view of certain prior art and has made these rejections final. Tessera has appealed the
rejections to the Board of Appeals and Interferences. On December 1, 2008, the ITC Administrative
Law Judge (ALJ) ruled that the patents are valid but not infringed. On May 20, 2009, however, the
ITC reversed the ALJ s determination that the patents were not infringed, and it issued the
following remedial orders: (1) a limited exclusion order that bans the Company and the other named
respondents from importing into the United States the accused chip packages (except to the extent
those products are licensed) and (2) a cease and desist order that prohibits the Company from
engaging in certain domestic activities respecting those products. The President declined to review
the decision. The Company and other respondents appealed. Oral argument was held on June 9, 2010,
and the appellate court decision is expected within the next several months. During the period of
the exclusion order, which has since expired as described below, the Company shifted supply of
accused chips for the United States market to a licensed supplier of Tessera, and the Company
continued to supply the United States market without interruption. The subject patents expired on
September 24, 2010, at which time the ITC orders ceased to be operative.

Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) Complaint:  Two U.S. companies (Texas Instruments and
Broadcom) and two South Korean companies (Nextreaming and Thin Multimedia) filed complaints with
the KFTC alleging that certain of the Company s business practices violate South Korean antitrust
regulations. As a result of its agreement with the Company, Broadcom withdrew its complaint to the
KFTC in May 2009. After a hearing, the KFTC announced its ruling via press release in July 2009. On
January 4, 2010, the KFTC issued its written decision, explaining its ruling that the Company
violated South Korean law by offering certain discounts and rebates for purchases of its CDMA chips
and for including in certain agreements language requiring the continued payment of royalties after
all licensed patents have expired. The KFTC levied a fine of 273.2 billion Korean won, for which
the Company accrued a $230 million charge in fiscal 2009 (Note 4), and ordered the Company to cease
the practices at issue. In February 2010, the Company filed a complaint against the KFTC with the
Seoul High Court appealing the KFTC s written decision. The Company does not anticipate that the
cease and desist remedies ordered will have a material effect on the results of its operations. In
July 2009, the KFTC also announced that it would continue its review of the Company s integration
of multimedia functions into its chips, but it has not announced any decisions in that regard. The
Company believes that its practices do not violate South Korean competition law, are grounded in
sound business practice and are consistent with its customers  desires.

Japan Fair Trade Commission (JFTC) Complaint : The JFTC received unspecified complaints
alleging that the Company s business practices are, in some way, a violation of Japanese law. On
September 29, 2009, the JFTC issued a cease and desist order (CDO) concluding that the Company s
Japanese licensees were forced to cross-license patents to the Company on a royalty-free basis and
were forced to accept a provision under which they agreed not to assert their essential patents
against the Company s other licensees who made a similar commitment in their license agreements
with the Company. The CDO seeks to require the Company to modify its existing license agreements
with Japanese companies to eliminate these provisions while preserving the license of the Company s
patents to those companies. The Company disagrees with the conclusions that it forced its Japanese
licensees to agree to any provision in the parties  agreements and that those provisions violate
Japan s Anti-Monopoly Act. The
Company has invoked its right under Japanese law to an administrative hearing before the JFTC.
In February 2010, the Tokyo High Court granted the Company s motion and issued a stay of the CDO
pending the administrative hearing before the JFTC. The JFTC has had four hearing days to date,
with two additional hearing days scheduled through February 2011, and additional hearing days yet
to be scheduled.

Icera Complaint to the European Commission : On June 7, 2010, the European Commission (the
Commission) notified and provided the Company with a redacted copy of a complaint filed with the
Commission by Icera, Inc. alleging that the Company has engaged in anticompetitive activity. The
Company has been asked by the Commission to submit a preliminary response to the portions of the
Complaint disclosed to it, and the Company submitted its response in July 2010. The Company will
cooperate fully with the Commission.

Panasonic Arbitration:  On August 5, 2009, Panasonic filed an arbitration demand alleging that
it does not owe royalties, or owes less royalties, on its WCDMA subscriber devices sold on or after
December 21, 2008, and that the Company breached the license agreement between the parties as well
as certain commitments to standards setting organizations. On January 31, 2010, Panasonic amended
the arbitration demand to include claims based on alleged misrepresentations and the Japanese
Antimonopoly Act and increased its claim for damages to include royalties it has paid on its WCDMA
subscriber devices sold prior to December 21, 2008. The arbitration demand seeks declaratory relief
regarding the amount of royalties due and payable by Panasonic, as well as the return of certain

F-26 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

royalties it had previously paid. The Company has responded to the arbitration demand, denying the
allegations and requesting judgment in its favor on all claims. The arbitration hearing is
proceeding in phases. The first phase hearing was completed in July 2010. On October 15, 2010, the
arbitrator issued an interim order finding that the Company did not breach the license agreement.
Additional phases to address the other claims and allegations noted above have not yet been
scheduled. Although the Company believes Panasonic s claims are without merit, it has deferred the
recognition of revenue related to WCDMA subscriber unit royalties reported and paid by Panasonic in
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and in fiscal 2010.

Formal Order of Private Investigation:  On September 8, 2010, the Company was notified by the
Securities and Exchange Commission s Los Angeles Regional office (SEC) of a formal order of private
investigation. The Company understands that the investigation arose from a  whistleblower s 
allegations made in December 2009 to the audit committee of the Company s Board of Directors and to
the SEC. The audit committee has conducted an internal review with the assistance of independent
counsel and independent forensic accountants. This recently concluded internal review into the
allegations and related accounting practices did not identify any errors in the Company s financial
statements. The Company continues to cooperate with the SEC s ongoing investigation.

Other:  The Company has been named, along with many other manufacturers of wireless phones,
wireless operators and industry-related organizations, as a defendant in purported class action
lawsuits, and individually filed actions pending in federal court in Pennsylvania and Washington
D.C. superior court, seeking monetary damages arising out of its sale of cellular phones.

While there can be no assurance of favorable outcomes, the Company believes the claims made by
other parties in the foregoing matters are without merit and will vigorously defend the actions.
The Company has not recorded any accrual for contingent liabilities associated with the legal
proceedings described above based on the Company s belief that liabilities, while possible, are not
probable. Further, any possible range of loss cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. The
Company is engaged in numerous other legal actions not described above arising in the ordinary
course of its business and, while there can be no assurance, believes that the ultimate outcome of
these actions will not have a material adverse effect on its operating results, liquidity or
financial position.

Litigation Settlement, Patent License and Other Related Items.   On April 26, 2009, the Company
entered into a Settlement and Patent License and Non-Assert Agreement with Broadcom. The Company
agreed to pay Broadcom $891 million, of which $416 million was paid through September 26, 2010, and
the remainder will be paid ratably through April 2013. The Company recorded a pre-tax charge of
$783 million related to this agreement during fiscal 2009. At September 26, 2010, the carrying
value of the liability was $455 million, which also approximated the fair value of the contractual
liability, net of imputed interest.

India Spectrum Acquisition and Related Debt.   In June 2010, the Company won a 20 MHz slot of
Broadband Wireless Access (BWA) spectrum in four telecom circles in India as a result of the
completion of the BWA spectrum auction. The Company expects that licenses to operate wireless
networks on this spectrum will be assigned to the Company by December 2010 with an initial license
period of 20 years. At September 26, 2010, the Company had a $1.09 billion advance payment included
in noncurrent other assets related to this spectrum. The Company will amortize the spectrum
licenses over the remaining license period commencing upon the commercial launch of
wireless services in India, which is expected to occur within five years of the assignment
date. The Company s goal is to attract one or more operator partners into a venture (or ventures)
for construction of an LTE network in compliance with the Indian government s build-out requirement
for the BWA spectrum, and then to exit the venture(s). The manner and timing of such exit will be
dependent upon a number of factors, such as market conditions and regulatory considerations, among
others.

In June 2010, in connection with the Indian BWA spectrum purchase, the Company entered into a
bank loan agreement that is denominated in Indian rupees. The loan is payable in full in December
2010. The loan has a fixed interest rate of 6.75% per year with interest payments due monthly. At
September 26, 2010, the carrying value of the loan was $1.09 billion, which approximated its fair
value.

Indemnifications.   In general, the Company does not agree to indemnify its customers and
licensees for losses sustained from infringement of third-party intellectual property. However, the
Company is contingently liable under certain product sales, services, license and other agreements
to indemnify certain customers against certain types of liability and/or damages arising from
qualifying claims of patent infringement by products or services sold or provided by the Company.
The Company s obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of time and/or amount, and
in some instances, the Company may have recourse against third parties for certain payments made by
the Company. These indemnification arrangements are not initially measured and recognized at fair
value

F-27 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

because they are deemed to be similar to product warranties in that they relate to claims
and/or other actions that could impair the ability of the Company s direct or indirect customers to
use the Company s products or services. Accordingly, the Company records liabilities resulting from
the arrangements when they are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Reimbursements under
indemnification arrangements have not been material to the Company s consolidated financial
statements. The Company has not recorded any accrual for contingent liabilities at September 26,
2010 associated with these indemnification arrangements, other than negligible amounts for
reimbursement of legal costs, based on the Company s belief that additional liabilities, while
possible, are not probable. Further, any possible range of loss cannot be estimated at this time.

Purchase Obligations.   The Company has agreements with suppliers and other parties to purchase
inventory, other goods, services and long-lived assets. Noncancelable obligations under these
agreements at September 26, 2010 for fiscal 2011 through 2015 to be $1.4 billion, $162 million, $60
million, $19 million and $48 million, respectively, and $39 million thereafter. Of these amounts,
for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012, commitments to purchase integrated circuit product inventories
comprised $1.2 billion and $15 million, respectively.

Leases.   The Company leases certain of its facilities and equipment under noncancelable
operating leases, with terms ranging from less than one year to 35 years and with provisions in
certain leases for cost-of-living increases. Rental expense for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $85
million, $80 million and $75 million, respectively. The Company leases certain property under
capital lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2043. Capital lease obligations are
included in other liabilities. The future minimum lease payments for all capital leases and
operating leases at September 26, 2010 were as follows (in millions):

Note 10. Segment Information 

The Company is organized on the basis of products and services. The Company aggregates four of
its divisions into the Qualcomm Wireless   Internet segment. Reportable segments are as follows:

Qualcomm CDMA Technologies (QCT)   develops and supplies integrated circuits and
system software for wireless voice and data communications, multimedia functions and
global positioning system products based on its CDMA technology and other technologies; 

Qualcomm Technology Licensing (QTL)   grants licenses or otherwise provides rights
to use portions of the Company s intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain
patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless
products, including, without limitation, products implementing cdmaOne, CDMA2000, WCDMA,
CDMA TDD (including TD-SCDMA), GSM/GPRS/EDGE and/or OFDMA standards, and collects
license fees and royalties in partial consideration for such licenses; 

Qualcomm Wireless   Internet (QWI)   comprised of: 

Qualcomm Internet Services (QIS)   provides content enablement
services for the wireless industry and push-to-talk and other products and
services for wireless operators; 

Qualcomm Government Technologies (QGOV)   provides development,
hardware and analytical expertise to United States government agencies involving
wireless communications technologies; 

F-28 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Qualcomm Enterprise Services (QES)   provides satellite- and
terrestrial-based two-way data messaging, position reporting, wireless
application services and managed data services to transportation and logistics
companies and other enterprise companies; and 

Firethorn   builds and manages software applications that enable
certain mobile commerce services. 

Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI)   consists of  the Company s strategic investment
activities, including FLO TV Incorporated (FLO TV), the Company s wholly-owned wireless
multimedia operator subsidiary. QSI makes strategic investments in early stage companies
and in wireless spectrum, such as the BWA spectrum recently won in the auction in India,
that the Company believes will open new markets for CDMA and OFDMA technologies, support
the design and introduction of new CDMA and OFDMA products or possess unique
capabilities or technology. 

The Company evaluates the performance of its segments based on earnings (loss) before income
taxes (EBT). EBT includes the allocation of certain corporate expenses to the segments, including
depreciation and amortization expense related to unallocated corporate assets. Certain income and
charges are not allocated to segments in the Company s management reports because they are not
considered in evaluating the segments  operating performance. Unallocated income and charges
include certain investment income (loss), certain share-based compensation and certain research and
development expenses and marketing expenses that were deemed to be not directly related to the
businesses of the segments. The table below presents revenues, EBT and total assets for reportable
segments (in millions):

Segment assets are comprised of accounts receivable, finance receivables and inventories
for QCT, QTL and QWI. The QSI segment assets include certain marketable securities, notes
receivable, spectrum licenses, other investments and all assets of QSI consolidated subsidiaries,
including FLO TV. QSI segment assets increased primarily as a result of the $1.09 billion advance
payment made in June 2010 related to the BWA spectrum recently won in the India auction. QSI
segment assets related to the FLO TV business totaled $1.3 billion at both September 26, 2010 and
September 27, 2009 and $1.2 billion at September 28, 2008. The Company has commenced a
restructuring plan under which it expects to exit the current FLO TV service business. There were
no significant expenses recognized in fiscal 2010 related to this restructuring plan. QSI assets
also included $20 million, $10 million and $20 million related to investments in equity method
investees at September 26, 2010, September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008, respectively.
Reconciling items for total assets included $384 million, $389 million and $277 million at
September 26, 2010, September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008, respectively, of goodwill and other
assets related to the Company s QMT division, a nonreportable segment developing display technology
for mobile devices and other applications. Total segment assets differ from total assets on a
consolidated basis as a result of unallocated corporate assets primarily comprised of certain cash,
cash equivalents, marketable securities, property, plant and equipment, deferred tax assets,
goodwill and assets of nonreportable segments. The net book values of
long-lived assets located
outside of the United States were $221 million, $256 million and $100 million at September 26,
2010, September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008, respectively. The net book values of long-lived

F-29 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

assets located in the United States were $2.2 billion at September 26, 2010 and $2.1 billion at
September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008.

Revenues from each of the Company s divisions aggregated into the QWI reportable segment were
as follows (in millions):

Other reconciling items were comprised as follows (in millions):

During fiscal 2010, share-based compensation expense included in unallocated research and
development expenses and unallocated selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $300
million and $272 million, respectively. During fiscal 2009, share-based compensation expense
included in unallocated research and
development expenses and unallocated selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $280
million and $263 million, respectively. During fiscal 2008, share-based compensation expense
included in unallocated research and development expenses and unallocated selling, general and
administrative expenses totaled $250 million and $251 million, respectively. Unallocated cost of
equipment and services revenues was comprised entirely of share-based compensation expense. Other
nonreportable segments  losses before taxes during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 were primarily
attributable to the Company s QMT division.

F-30 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Specified items included in segment EBT were as follows (in millions):

Intersegment revenues are based on prevailing market rates for substantially similar
products and services or an approximation thereof, but the purchasing segment may record the cost
of revenues at the selling segment s original cost. In that event, the elimination of the selling
segment s gross margin is included with other intersegment eliminations in reconciling items.
Effectively all equity in earnings (losses) of investees was recorded in QSI in fiscal 2010, 2009
and 2008.

The Company distinguishes revenues from external customers by geographic areas based on the
location to which its products, software or services are delivered and, for QTL licensing and
royalty revenues, the invoiced addresses of its licensees. Sales information by geographic area was
as follows (in millions):

Note 11. Acquisitions 

During fiscal 2010, the Company acquired six businesses for total cash considerations of $50
million. Technology-based intangible assets recognized in the amount of $32 million are being
amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average useful life of eleven years. During
fiscal 2009, the Company acquired one business for total cash consideration of $17 million. During
fiscal 2008, the Company acquired five businesses for total cash consideration of $263 million.
Goodwill recognized in these transactions, was assigned to the QWI and QCT segments in the amount
of $179 million and $21 million, respectively.

The consolidated financial statements include the operating results of these businesses from
their respective dates of acquisition. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented
because the effects of the acquisitions were not material.

Note 12. Summarized Quarterly Data (Unaudited) 

The following financial information reflects all normal recurring adjustments that are, in the
opinion of management, necessary for a fair statement of the results of the interim periods.

The table below presents quarterly data for the years ended September 26, 2010 and September
27, 2009 (in millions, except per share data):

F-31 

Table of Contents   

QUALCOMM Incorporated  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

(1)   
       
     Revenues, operating income (loss) and net income (loss) are rounded to
millions each quarter. Therefore, the sum of the quarterly amounts may not equal the annual
amounts reported. 

(2)  
       
      Earnings (loss) per share are computed independently for each quarter and the
full year based upon respective average shares outstanding. Therefore, the sum of the
quarterly earnings (loss) per share amounts may not equal the annual amounts reported. 

F-32 

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE II 

QUALCOMM INCORPORATED  
 VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
(In millions) 

(a)  
       
      This amount was charged to other comprehensive income (loss). 

(b)  
       
     This amount represents the allowance for investment receivables due for redemptions
of money market investments. 

S-1 

<EX-10.90>
 2
 a57478exv10w90.htm
 EX-10.90

exv10w90 

Exhibit 10.90 

QUALCOMM INCORPORATED   
  2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan   
  Employee Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice  

Qualcomm Incorporated  (the  Company ), pursuant to its 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  Plan )
hereby grants you the number of Restricted Stock Units set forth below, each of which is a
bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) share of the Company s common
stock.   You must accept this Restricted Stock Unit Award in the manner specified by the Company no
later than four months after the Date of Grant. If you fail to do so, this Restricted Stock Unit
Award will be null and void.   This Restricted Stock Unit Award is subject to all of the terms and
conditions as set forth herein and the Employee Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (attached hereto)
and the Plan which are incorporated herein in their entirety. Capitalized terms not otherwise
defined in this Grant Notice or the Employee Restricted Stock Unit Agreement shall have the meaning
set forth in the Plan.

Participant:  Employee 

Grant No.:  Number  

Emp #:  ID 

Number of Restricted Stock Units:
 Shares_Granted  

Date of Grant:  Grant_Date 

Vesting Date   

Except as otherwise provided in the Employee Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, the Restricted Stock
Units vest as follows provided you are in Service on the applicable Vesting Date:

Three-year cliff vesting  

Shares Vested 
       
     Vesting Date 

Total Shares 

3rd Anniversary of Date of Grant  

Three-year graded vesting  

Shares Vested 
       
     Vesting Date 

Total Shares 

1st Anniversary of Date of Grant  

Total Shares 

2nd Anniversary of Date of Grant  

Total Shares 

3rd Anniversary of Date of Grant  

Five-year graded vesting  

Shares Vested 
       
     Vesting Date 

Shares 

1st Anniversary of Date of Grant  

Shares 

2nd Anniversary of Date of Grant  

Shares 

3rd Anniversary of Date of Grant  

Shares 

4th Anniversary of Date of Grant  

Shares 

5th Anniversary of Date of Grant  

Payment of Vested Restricted Stock Units   

Any Restricted Stock Units that vest will be paid following the Vesting Date or following such
earlier date as provided in the Employee Restricted Stock Unit Agreement.

Additional Terms/Acknowledgments:  By accepting this Restricted Stock Unit Award (in the form
determined by the Company) you acknowledge receipt of and represent that you have read, understand,
accept and agree to the terms and conditions of the following: this Grant Notice, the Employee
Restricted Stock Unit Agreement and the Plan (including, but not limited to, the binding
arbitration provision in Section 3.7 of the Plan). In addition, by accepting this Restricted Stock
Unit Award you agree to all of its terms and conditions and further acknowledge that as of the Date
of Grant, this Grant Notice, the Employee Restricted Stock Unit Agreement and the Plan set forth
the entire understanding between you and the Company regarding the acquisition of stock in the
Company and supersedes all prior oral and written agreements pertaining to this particular
Restricted Stock Unit Award.

Qualcomm Incorporated: 

By:

Dr. Paul E. Jacobs

Chairman of the Board and 

Chief Executive Officer 

Dated:  Grant_Date  

Attachment: Employee Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (RSU A-4) 

</EX-10.90>

<EX-21>
 3
 a57478exv21.htm
 EX-21

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT 

FLO TV Incorporated, a Delaware Corporation, is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company. FLO TV does business under its own name. The Company consolidates FLO TV
in its financial statements.

QUALCOMM Global Trading, Inc. (QGT), a British Virgin Islands corporation, is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company. QGT and its subsidiaries, Global Wireless Application Services Private
Limited, incorporated in India, QUALCOMM Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd., incorporated in Singapore,
QUALCOMM Canada Inc., incorporated in Canada, QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies Asia-Pacific Pte. Ltd.,
incorporated in Singapore, QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies GmbH, incorporated in Germany, QUALCOMM CDMA
Technologies (Korea) Y.H., incorporated in South Korea, QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies Malaysia
SDN.BHD, incorporated in Malaysia, QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies, T.Y.K., incorporated in Japan,
QUALCOMM Communication Technologies Ltd., incorporated in Taiwan, QUALCOMM Finland Oy, incorporated
in Finland, QUALCOMM GT Holdings, Inc., incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, QUALCOMM India
Private Limited, incorporated in India, QUALCOMM Italia S.r.l., incorporated in Italy, QUALCOMM
Mauritius Holdings Limited, incorporated in Mauritius, QUALCOMM Netherlands B.V., incorporated in
the Netherlands, QUALCOMM (UK) Limited, incorporated in the United Kingdom, QUALCOMM Wireless Semi
Conductor Technologies Limited, incorporated in China, Spike Technologies LLC, registered in
California, Wireless Broadband Business Services (Delhi) Private Limited, incorporated in India,
Wireless Broadband Business Services (Haryana) Private Limited, incorporated in India, Wireless
Broadband Business Services (Kerala) Private Limited, incorporated in India, and Wireless Business
Services Private Limited, incorporated in India, do business under their own names. The Company
consolidates QGT in its financial statements.

The names of other subsidiaries are omitted. Such subsidiaries would not, if considered in the
aggregate as a single subsidiary, constitute a significant subsidiary within the meaning of Item
601(b)(21)(ii) of Regulation S-K.

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 a57478exv23w1.htm
 EX-23.1

exv23w1 

EXHIBIT 23.1 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8
(No. 333-60484, No. 333-103497, No. 333-117626, No. 333-119904, No. 333-120948, No. 333-131448, No.
333-131157, No. 333-137692, No. 333-137693, No. 333-150423, No. 333-148177, No. 333-148841, No.
333-148556, and No. 333-166246) of QUALCOMM Incorporated of our report dated November 3, 2010
relating to the consolidated financial statements, the financial statement schedule and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

San Diego, California 
November 3, 2010

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 a57478exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, Paul E. Jacobs, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of QUALCOMM Incorporated;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant s Board of Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Dated: November 3, 2010

/s/ Paul E. Jacobs

Paul E. Jacobs,

Chief Executive Officer and Chairman

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 a57478exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, William E. Keitel, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of QUALCOMM Incorporated;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant s Board of Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Dated: November 3, 2010

/s/ William E. Keitel

William E. Keitel,

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 a57478exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
(18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350) 

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report of QUALCOMM Incorporated (the  Company ) on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 26, 2010 (the  Report ), I, Paul Jacobs, Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to  906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

Dated: November 3, 2010

/s/ Paul E. Jacobs

Paul E. Jacobs,

Chief Executive Officer and Chairman

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 a57478exv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2

exv32w2 

EXHIBIT 32.2 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
(18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350) 

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report of QUALCOMM Incorporated (the  Company ) on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 26, 2010 (the  Report ), I, William E. Keitel, Chief
Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to  906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

Dated: November 3, 2010

/s/ William E. Keitel

William E. Keitel,

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 qcom-20100926.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 qcom-20100926.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 qcom-20100926_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 12
 qcom-20100926_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 13
 qcom-20100926_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 qcom-20100926_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

