<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100226_10-K_edgar_data_1091667_0001091667-10-000019_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>7062830</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>592907</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>75736</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>5327548</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>103</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001091667-10-000019.hdr.sgml : 20100226
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100226164318
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001091667-10-000019
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100226
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100226

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. /MO/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001091667
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES [4841]
		IRS NUMBER:				431857213
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-33664
		FILM NUMBER:		10640029

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		12405 POWERSCOURT DRIVE
		CITY:			ST. LOUIS
		STATE:			MO
		ZIP:			63131
		BUSINESS PHONE:		314-965-0555

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		12405 POWERSCOURT DRIVE
		CITY:			ST. LOUIS
		STATE:			MO
		ZIP:			63131

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS INC /MO/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19990723

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 BYSHivApSQ13MvPeV7OcrxfwzLwKHBU2V2aq/rxEHEydNh7G+W5qdDA9V96hq6yt
 xwujqEpfHEP9xX9yLWhI2g==

 0001091667-10-000019.txt : 20100226

10-K
 1
 body.htm
 CCI FORM 10-K 2009

body.htm 

UNITED
STATES 

       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
20549  

FORM 10-K  

For
the Transition Period From
            to              

       Commission File Number:
001-33664  

Charter
Communications, Inc.  

       (Exact name of registrant as
specified in its charter)  

Securities
registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act: None 

      Securities
registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act:  None 

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes  o  No     

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes  o  No     

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No  o  

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  o  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
definition of  accelerated filer,   large accelerated filer,  and  smaller
reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 

Large
accelerated filer  o            Accelerated
filer  o             Non-accelerated
filer               Smaller reporting
company  o  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Act). Yes  o
 No     

The
aggregate market value of the registrant of outstanding Class A common
stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant at June 30, 2009 was
approximately $8 million, computed based on the closing sale price as quoted on
the OTC Bulletin Board on that date.  For purposes of this calculation
only, directors, executive officers and the principal controlling shareholder or
entities controlled by such controlling shareholder of the registrant are deemed
to be affiliates of the registrant. 

APPLICABLE
ONLY TO REGISTRANTS INVOLVED IN BANKRUPTCY 

      PROCEEDINGS
DURING THE PRECEDING FIVE YEARS: 

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has filed all documents and reports
required to be filed by Section 12, 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 subsequent to the distribution of securities under a plan confirmed by a
court.  Yes   
 No  o  

There
were 112,593,860 shares of Class A common stock outstanding as of January
31, 2010.  There were 2,241,299 shares of Class B common stock
outstanding as of the same date. 

Documents
Incorporated By Reference 

        The
following documents are incorporated into this Annual Report by
reference:  None 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. 

       FORM 10-K   FOR THE YEAR ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 2009   

TABLE OF
CONTENTS   

Page
      No. 

PART
      I 

Item 1 

Business 

1 

Item
      1A 

Risk
      Factors 

16 

Item
      1B 

Unresolved
      Staff Comments 

27 

Item 2 

Properties 

27 

Item 3 

Legal
      Proceedings 

27 

Item 4 

Submission
      of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

30 

PART
      II 

Item 5 

Market
      for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
      Purchases of Equity Securities 

31 

Item 6 

Selected
      Financial Data 

33 

Item 7 

Management's
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations 

34 

Item 7A 

Quantitative
      and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 

58 

Item 8 

Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data 

59 

Item 9 

Changes
      in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
      Disclosure 

59 

Item
      9A 

Controls
      and Procedures 

59 

Item
      9B 

Other
      Information 

60 

PART
      III 

Item 10 

Directors,
      Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 

61 

Item 11 

Executive
      Compensation 

66 

Item 12 

Security
      Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
      Stockholder Matters 

87 

Item 13 

Certain
      Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
      Independence 

91 

Item 14 

Principal
      Accounting Fees and Services 

95 

PART
      IV 

Item 15 

Exhibits
      and Financial Statement Schedules 

96 

Signatures 

S-1 

Exhibit
      Index 

E-1 

This
Annual Report on Form 10-K is for the year ended December 31,
2009.  The Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) allows us
to  incorporate by reference  information that we file with the SEC, which means
that we can disclose important information to you by referring you directly to
those documents.  Information incorporated by reference is considered
to be part of this Annual Report.  In addition, information that we
file with the SEC in the future will automatically update and supersede
information contained in this Annual Report.  In this annual report,
 we,   us  and  our  refer to Charter Communications, Inc., Charter
Communications Holding Company, LLC and their subsidiaries. 

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

This
annual report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section
27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange
Act"), regarding, among other things, our plans, strategies and prospects, both
business and financial, including, without limitation, the forward-looking
statements set forth in Part I. Item 1. and in Part II. Item 7. under
the heading "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" in this annual report.  Although we believe
that our plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by these
forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that we will
achieve or realize these plans, intentions or
expectations.  Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to
risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, without limitation, the factors
described in Part I. Item 1A. under the heading "Risk Factors" and in Part II.
Item 7. under the heading, "Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in this annual
report.  Many of the forward-looking statements contained in this
annual report may be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as
"believe," "expect," "anticipate," "should," "planned," "will," "may," "intend,"
"estimated," "aim," "on track," "target," "opportunity" and "potential," among
others.  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from the forward-looking statements we make in this annual report are
set forth in this annual report and in other reports or documents that we file
from time to time with the SEC, and include, but are not limited
to: 

our
      ability to sustain and grow revenues and cash flows from operating
      activities by offering video, high-speed Internet, telephone and other
      services to residential and commercial customers, and to maintain and grow
      our customer base, particularly in the face of increasingly aggressive
      competition and the difficult economic conditions in the United
      States; 

the
      impact of competition from other distributors, including but not limited
      to incumbent telephone companies, direct broadcast satellite operators,
      wireless broadband providers, and digital subscriber line ("DSL")
      providers and competition from video provided over the
      Internet; 

general
      business conditions, economic uncertainty or downturn and the significant
      downturn in the housing sector and overall
  economy; 

our
      ability to obtain programming at reasonable prices or to raise prices to
      offset, in whole or in part, the effects of higher programming costs
      (including retransmission
consents); 

our
      ability to adequately deliver customer
service; 

the
      effects of governmental regulation on our
  business; 

the
      availability and access, in general, of funds to meet our debt
      obligations, prior to or when they become due, and to fund our operations
      and necessary capital expenditures, either through (i) cash on hand, (ii)
      cash flows from operating activities, (iii) access to the capital or
      credit markets including through new issuances, exchange offers or
      otherwise, especially given recent volatility and disruption in the
      capital and credit markets, or (iv) other sources and our ability to fund
      debt obligations (by dividend, investment or otherwise) to the applicable
      obligor of such debt; and 

our
      ability to comply with all covenants in our indentures and credit
      facilities, any violation of which, if not cured in a timely manner, could
      trigger a default of our other obligations under cross-default
      provisions. 

All
forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf
are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary
statement.  We are under no duty or obligation to update any of the
forward-looking statements after the date of this annual report. 

ii 

PART
I 

Item 1.    Business.  

Introduction  

Charter
Communications, Inc. ("Charter") is among the largest providers of cable
services in the United States, offering a variety of entertainment, information
and communications solutions to residential and commercial customers in 27
states. Charter operates in a heavily regulated industry pursuant to various
franchises from local and state governments and licenses granted by state and
federal governments including the Federal Communications Commission (the
 FCC ).  Our infrastructure consists of a hybrid of fiber and coaxial
cable plant passing approximately 11.9 million homes, through which we offer our
residential and commercial customers traditional video cable programming,
high-speed Internet access, advanced broadband cable services (such as high
definition television, OnDemand  ( OnDemand ) video programming and digital
video recorder ( DVR ) service) and telephone service.  See "Item 1.
Business   Products and Services" for further description of these terms and
services, including "customers." 

As of
December 31, 2009, we served approximately 5.3 million customers.  We
served approximately 4.8 million video customers, of which approximately 67%
were digital video customers.  We also served approximately 3.1
million high-speed Internet customers and we provided telephone service to
approximately 1.6 million customers.  We sell our cable video
programming, high-speed Internet and telephone services primarily on a
subscription basis, often in a bundle of two or more services, providing savings
and convenience to our customers.  Approximately 57% of our customers
subscribe to a bundle of services. 

Through
Charter Business , we provide scalable, tailored broadband communications
solutions to business organizations, such as business-to-business Internet
access, data networking, fiber connectivity to cellular towers, video and music
entertainment services and business telephone.  As of December 31,
2009, we served approximately 224,300 business customers, including small- and
medium-sized commercial customers. 

Charter
is a holding company whose principal asset is a controlling common equity
interest in Charter Communications Holding Company, LLC ( Charter
Holdco ).  Charter Holdco is the sole owner of our subsidiaries where
the underlying operations reside, which are collectively referred to herein as
the  Company.   All significant intercompany accounts and transactions
among consolidated entities have been eliminated. 

We have a
history of net losses.  Our net losses were principally attributable to
insufficient revenue to cover the combination of operating expenses and interest
expenses we incurred because of our debt, impairment of franchises and
depreciation expenses resulting from the capital investments we have made and
continue to make in our cable properties.  As discussed below, we emerged
from bankruptcy protection on November 30, 2009 and reduced our debt by
approximately $8 billion, reducing our interest expense by approximately $830
million annually. 

Our
principal executive offices are located at Charter Plaza, 12405 Powerscourt
Drive, St. Louis, Missouri 63131.  Our telephone number is (314)
965-0555, and we have a website accessible at www.charter.com.  Since
January 1, 2002, our annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports
on Form 8-K, and all amendments thereto, have been made available on our
website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been
filed.  The information posted on our website is not incorporated into
this annual report. 

Bankruptcy
Proceedings and Recent Events 

On
March 27, 2009, we and certain affiliates (collectively, the  Debtors )
filed voluntary petitions in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern
District of New York (the  Bankruptcy Court ), to reorganize under Chapter 11 of
the United States Bankruptcy Code (the  Bankruptcy Code ).  The
Chapter 11 cases were jointly administered under the caption  In re Charter Communications, Inc.,
et al. , Case No. 09-11435.  On May 7, 2009, we filed a Joint
Plan of Reorganization (the "Plan") and a related disclosure statement (the
 Disclosure Statement ) with the Bankruptcy Court.  The Plan was
confirmed by order of the Bankruptcy Court on November 17, 2009 ( Confirmation
Order ), and became effective on November 30, 2009 (the  Effective Date ), the
date on which we emerged from protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy
Code. 

As
provided in the Plan and the Confirmation Order, (i) the notes and bank debt of
Charter Communications Operating, LLC ( Charter Operating ) and CCO Holdings,
LLC ( CCO Holdings ) remained outstanding; (ii) holders of approximately $1.5
billion of notes issued by CCH II, LLC ( CCH II ) received new CCH II notes (the

1 

Notes
Exchange  (iii) holders of notes issued by CCH I, LLC ( CCH I ) received 21.1
million shares of new Charter Class A common stock;  (iv) holders of
notes issued by CCH I Holdings, LLC ( CIH ) received 6.4 million warrants to
purchase shares of new Charter Class A common stock with an exercise price of
$46.86 per share that expire five years from the date of issuance; (v) holders
of notes issued by Charter Communications Holdings, LLC ( Charter Holdings )
received 1.3 million warrants to purchase shares of new Charter Class A common
stock with an exercise price of $51.28 per share that expire five years from the
date of issuance; (vi) holders of convertible notes issued by Charter received
$25 million and 5.5 million shares of preferred stock issued by Charter; and
(vii) all previously outstanding shares of Charter Class A and Class B common
stock were cancelled.  In addition, as part of the Plan, the holders
of CCH I notes received and transferred to Mr. Paul G. Allen, Charter s
principal stockholder, $85 million of new CCH II notes. 

The
consummation of the Plan was funded with cash on hand, the Notes Exchange, and
net proceeds of approximately $1.6 billion of an equity rights offering (the
 Rights Offering ) in which holders of CCH I notes purchased new Charter
Class A common stock. 

In
connection with the Plan, Charter, Mr. Allen and Charter Investment, Inc.
( CII ) entered into a separate restructuring agreement (as amended, the  Allen
Agreement ), in settlement and compromise of their legal, contractual and
equitable rights, claims and remedies against Charter and its
subsidiaries  In addition to any amounts received by virtue of CII s
holding other claims against Charter and its subsidiaries, on the Effective
Date, CII was issued 2.2 million shares of the new Charter Class B common stock
equal to 2% of the equity value of Charter, after giving effect to the Rights
Offering, but prior to issuance of warrants and equity-based awards provided for
by the Plan and 35% (determined on a fully diluted basis) of the total voting
power of all new capital stock of Charter.  Each share of new Charter Class
B common stock is convertible, at the option of the holder, into one share of
new Charter Class A common stock, and is subject to significant restrictions on
transfer and conversion.  Certain holders of new Charter Class A
common stock (and securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable
therefore) and new Charter Class B common stock received certain customary
registration rights with respect to their shares.  On the Effective
Date, CII received: (i) 4.7 million warrants to purchase shares of new Charter
Class A common stock, (ii) $85 million principal amount of new CCH II notes
(transferred from CCH I noteholders), (iii) $25 million in cash for amounts
previously owed to CII under a management agreement, (iv) $20 million in
cash for reimbursement of fees and expenses in connection with the Plan, and (v)
an additional $150 million in cash.  The warrants described above have
an exercise price of $19.80 per share and expire seven years after the date of
issuance. In addition, on the Effective Date, CII retained a minority equity
interest in reorganized Charter Holdco of 1% and a right to exchange such
interest into new Charter Class A common stock. On December 28, 2009, CII
exchanged 81% of its interest in Charter Holdco, and on February 8, 2010 the
remaining interest was exchanged after which Charter Holdco became 100% owned by
Charter.  Further, Mr. Allen transferred his preferred equity interest
in CC VIII, LLC ( CC VIII ) to Charter.  Mr. Allen has the right to
elect up to four of Charter's eleven board members. 

On
January 22, 2010, we announced that our President and Chief Executive Officer,
Neil Smit, would resign effective February 28, 2010 and our Chief Operating
Officer, Michael J. Lovett, would assume the additional title of Interim
President and Chief Executive Officer at that time. 

The terms
 Charter,   we,   our  and  us,  when used in this report with respect to the
period prior to Charter s emergence from bankruptcy, are references to the
Debtors ( Predecessor ) and, when used with respect to the period commencing
after Charter s emergence, are references to Charter ( Successor ). These
references include the subsidiaries of Predecessor or Successor, as the case may
be, unless otherwise indicated or the context requires otherwise. 

2 

Corporate
Entity Structure  

The chart
below sets forth our entity structure and that of our direct and indirect
subsidiaries.  This chart does not include all of our affiliates and
subsidiaries and, in some cases, we have combined separate entities for
presentation purposes.  The equity ownership and voting percentages
shown below are approximations as of February 15, 2010, and do not give effect
to any exercise of then outstanding warrants.  Indebtedness amounts
shown below are principal amounts as of December 31, 2009.  See Note 8
to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in  Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  which also includes the accreted
values of the indebtedness described below. 

3 

Charter
Communications, Inc.  Charter owns 100% of Charter
Holdco.  Charter Holdco, through its subsidiaries, owns cable systems
and certain strategic investments.  As sole manager under applicable
operating agreements, Charter controls the affairs of Charter Holdco and its
limited liability company subsidiaries.  In addition, Charter provides
management services to Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries under a management
services agreement. 

Charter
Communications Holding Company, LLC.  Charter Holdco, a Delaware limited
liability company formed on May 25, 1999, is the indirect 100% parent of
Charter s subsidiaries including debt issuers and operating
subsidiaries.  At December 31, 2009, the common membership units of
Charter Holdco were owned approximately 99.81% by Charter and 0.19% by
CII.  All of the outstanding common membership units in Charter
Holdco, that were held by CII at December 31, 2009, were controlled by
Mr. Allen and were exchangeable at any time for shares of new Charter
Class A common stock.  On February 8, 2010, Mr. Allen exercised
his remaining right to exchange Charter Holdco units for shares of Class A
common stock after which Charter Holdco became 100% owned by
Charter. 

Interim Holding
Company Debt Issuers.   As indicated in the organizational chart
above, our interim holding company debt issuers indirectly own the subsidiaries
that own or operate all of our cable systems, subject to a CC VIII minority
interest held by CCH I as described below.  For a description of the
debt issued by these issuers please see  Item 7. Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Description of Our
Outstanding Debt.  

Preferred Equity
in CC VIII.   At December 31, 2009, Charter owned 30% of the CC
VIII preferred membership interests.  CCH I, a direct subsidiary of
CIH and indirect subsidiary of Charter, directly owned the remaining 70% of
these preferred interests.  The common membership interests in CC VIII
are indirectly owned by Charter Operating.  See Note 11 to our
accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in  Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  

Products and
Services  

Through
our hybrid fiber and coaxial cable network, we offer our customers traditional
cable video services (basic and digital, which we refer to as  video  services),
high-speed Internet services, and telephone services, as well as advanced
broadband services (such as OnDemand, high definition television, and DVR
service).  Our telephone services are primarily provided using voice
over Internet protocol ( VoIP ) technology, to transmit digital voice signals
over our systems.  Our video, high-speed Internet, and telephone
services are offered to residential and commercial customers on a subscription
basis, with prices and related charges that vary primarily based on the types of
service selected, whether the services are sold as a  bundle  or on an
individual basis, and the equipment necessary to receive the services, with some
variation in prices. 

The
following table approximates our customer statistics for video, residential
high-speed Internet and telephone as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. 

After
giving effect to sales and acquisitions of cable systems in 2008 and 2009, basic
video customers, digital video customers, high-speed Internet customers, and
telephone customers would have been 5,024,000, 3,132,200, 2,875,600, and
1,348,800, respectively, as of December 31, 2008. 

(a) 

Our
      billing systems calculate the aging of customer accounts based on the
      monthly billing cycle for each account.  On that basis, at
      December 31, 2009 and 2008, "customers" include approximately 25,900 and

4 

(b) 

Basic
      video customers  include all residential customers who receive video cable
      services. 

(c) 

Included
      within "basic video customers" are those in commercial and multi-dwelling
      structures, which are calculated on an equivalent bulk unit ( EBU )
      basis.  In the second quarter of 2009, we began calculating EBUs
      by dividing the bulk price charged to accounts in an area by the published
      rate charged to non-bulk residential customers in that market for the
      comparable tier of service rather than the most prevalent price charged as
      was used previously.  This EBU method of estimating basic video
      customers is consistent with the methodology used in determining costs
      paid to programmers and is consistent with the methodology used by other
      multiple system operators ( MSOs ).  EBUs presented as of
      December 31, 2008 decreased by 9,300 as a result of the change in
      methodology.  As we increase our published video rates to
      residential customers without a corresponding increase in the prices
      charged to commercial service or multi-dwelling customers, our EBU count
      will decline even if there is no real loss in commercial service or
      multi-dwelling customers. 

(d) 

"Digital
      video customers" include all basic video customers that have one or more
      digital set-top boxes or cable cards
deployed. 

(e) 

"Residential
      high-speed Internet customers" represent those residential customers who
      subscribe to our high-speed Internet
service. 

(f) 

Telephone
      customers  include all customers receiving telephone
    service. 

(g) 

"Revenue
      generating units" represent the sum total of all basic video, digital
      video, high-speed Internet and telephone customers, not counting
      additional outlets within one household.  For example, a
      customer who receives two types of service (such as basic video and
      digital video) would be treated as two revenue generating units and, if
      that customer added on high-speed Internet service, the customer would be
      treated as three revenue generating units.  This statistic is
      computed in accordance with the guidelines of the National Cable  
      Telecommunications Association
( NCTA ). 

Video
Services 

In 2009,
video services represented approximately 51% of our total
revenues.  Our video service offerings include the
following: 

Basic
      Video.    All of our video
      customers receive a package of basic programming which generally consists
      of local broadcast television, local community programming, including
      governmental and public access, and limited satellite-delivered or
      non-broadcast channels, such as weather, shopping and religious
      programming.  Our basic channel line-up generally has between 9
      and 35 channels. 

Expanded
      Basic Video.    This expanded
      programming level includes a package of satellite-delivered or
      non-broadcast channels and generally has between 20 and 60 channels in
      addition to the basic channel line-up. 

Digital
      Video.   We offer digital video services including a
      digital set-top box, an interactive electronic programming guide with
      parental controls, an expanded menu of pay-per-view channels, including
      OnDemand (available nearly everywhere), digital quality music channels and
      the option to also receive a cable card. In addition to video programming,
      digital video service enables customers to receive our advanced broadband
      services such as OnDemand, DVRs, and high definition television. 
      Charter also offers its digital sports tier in combination with premium
      sports content on charter.net.  

Premium
      Channels.    These channels
      provide original programming, commercial-free movies, sports, and other
      special event entertainment programming.  Although we offer
      subscriptions to premium channels on an individual basis, we offer an
      increasing number of digital video channel packages and premium channel
      packages, and we offer premium channels combined with our advanced
      broadband services. 

Pay-Per-View.    These channels
      allow customers to pay on a per event basis to view a single showing of a

5 

recently
      released movie, a one-time special sporting event, music concert, or
      similar event on a commercial-free
basis. 

OnDemand
      and Subscription OnDemand  .  OnDemand service
      allows customers to select from hundreds of movies and other programming
      at any time.  These programming options may be accessed for a
      fee or, in some cases, for no additional charge.  In some areas
      we also offer subscription OnDemand for a monthly fee or included in a
      digital tier premium channel subscription. 

High
      Definition Television  .  High definition
      television offers our digital customers certain video programming at a
      higher resolution to improve picture quality versus standard basic or
      digital video images. 

Digital
      Video Recorder.  DVR service enables customers to digitally record
      programming and to pause and rewind live
  programming. 

High-Speed
Internet Services 

In 2009,
residential high-speed Internet services represented approximately 22% of our
total revenues.  We currently offer several tiers of high-speed
Internet services with speeds ranging up to 60 megabytes per second download
speed to our residential customers via cable modems attached to personal
computers.  We also offer home networking gateways to these customers,
which permit customers to connect up to five computers in their home to the
Internet simultaneously. 

Telephone
Services 

In 2009,
telephone services represented approximately 10% of our total
revenues.  We provide voice communications services primarily using
VoIP technology to transmit digital voice signals over our
systems.  Charter Telephone includes unlimited nationwide and in-state
calling, voicemail, call waiting, caller ID, call forwarding and other
features.  Charter Telephone  also provides international calling
either by the minute or in a package of 250 minutes per month. 

Commercial
Services 

In 2009,
commercial services represented approximately 7% of our total
revenues.  Commercial services, offered through Charter Business ,
include scalable broadband communications solutions for business organizations,
such as business-to-business Internet access, data networking, video and music
entertainment services, and business telephone. 

Sale
of Advertising 

In 2009,
sales of advertising represented approximately 4% of our total
revenues.  We receive revenues from the sale of local advertising on
satellite-delivered networks such as MTV , CNN  and ESPN .  In any
particular market, we generally insert local advertising on up to 40
channels.  We also provide cross-channel advertising to some
programmers. 

From time
to time, certain of our vendors, including programmers and equipment vendors,
have purchased advertising from us.  For the years ending December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, we had advertising revenues from vendors of approximately
$41 million, $39 million, and $15 million, respectively.  These
revenues resulted from purchases at market rates pursuant to binding
agreements. 

Pricing of Our Products and
Services  

Our
revenues are derived principally from the monthly fees customers pay for the
services we offer.  We typically charge a one-time installation fee
which is sometimes waived or discounted during certain promotional
periods.  The prices we charge for our products and services vary
based on the level of service the customer chooses and the geographic
market.  In accordance with FCC rules, the prices we charge for video
cable-related equipment, such as set-top boxes and remote control devices, and
for installation services, are based on actual costs plus a permitted rate of
return in regulated markets. 

6 

We offer
reduced-price service for promotional periods in order to attract new customers,
to promote the bundling of two or more services and to retain existing
customers.  There is no assurance that these customers will remain as
customers when the promotional pricing period expires.  When customers
bundle services, generally the prices are lower per service than if they had
only purchased a single service. 

Our Network
Technology  

Our
network utilizes the hybrid fiber coaxial cable ( HFC ) architecture, which
combines the use of fiber optic cable with coaxial cable.  In most
systems, we deliver our signals via fiber optic cable from the headend to a
group of nodes, and use coaxial cable to deliver the signal from individual
nodes to the homes passed served by that node.  On average, our system
design enables up to 400 homes passed to be served by a single node and provides
for six strands of fiber to each node, with two strands activated and four
strands reserved for spares and future services.  We believe that this
hybrid network design provides high capacity and signal quality.  The
design also provides two-way signal capacity for the addition of future
services. 

HFC
architecture benefits include: 

bandwidth
      capacity to enable traditional and two-way video and broadband
      services; 

dedicated
      bandwidth for two-way services, which avoids return signal interference
      problems that can occur with two-way communication capability;
      and 

signal
      quality and high service
reliability. 

The
following table sets forth the technological capacity of our systems as of
December 31, 2009 based on a percentage of homes passed: 

Approximately
96% of our homes passed are served by systems that have bandwidth of 550
megahertz or greater.  This bandwidth capacity enables us to offer
digital television, high-speed Internet services, telephone service and other
advanced services. 

Through
system upgrades and divestitures of non-strategic systems, we have reduced the
number of headends that serve our customers from 1,138 at January 1, 2001
to 252 at December 31, 2009.  Headends are the control centers of
a cable system.  Reducing the number of headends reduces related
equipment, service personnel, and maintenance expenditures.  As of
December 31, 2009, approximately 92% of our customers were served by headends
serving at least 10,000 customers. 

As of
December 31, 2009, our cable systems consisted of approximately 200,000
aerial and underground miles of coaxial cable, and approximately 55,000 aerial
and underground miles of fiber optic cable, passing approximately 11.9 million
households and serving approximately 5.3 million customers. 

Charter
has built and activated a national transport backbone inter-connecting 95% of
Charter s local and regional networks.  The backbone is highly
scalable enabling efficient and timely transport of Internet traffic, voice
traffic, and high definition video content distribution. 

Management,
Customer Care and Marketing 

Our
corporate office, which includes employees of Charter, is responsible for
coordinating and overseeing operations including establishing company-wide
policies and procedures.  The corporate office performs certain
financial and administrative functions on a centralized basis and performs these
services on a cost reimbursement basis pursuant to a management services
agreement.  Our field operations are managed within two operating
groups with shared service centers for our field sales and marketing function,
human resources and training function, finance, and certain areas of customer
operations.   

Our
customer care centers are managed centrally.  We have eight internal
customer care locations plus several third-party call center locations that
through technology and procedures function as an integrated
system.  We provide  

7 

service
to our customers 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  We also utilize
our website to enable our customers to view and pay their bills online, obtain
useful information, and perform various equipment troubleshooting
procedures.  Our customers may also obtain support through our on-line
chat and e-mail functionality. 

Our
marketing strategy emphasizes our bundled services through targeted marketing
programs to existing and potential customers.  Marketing expenditures
increased by $4 million, or 1%, over the year ended December 31, 2008 to $272
million for the year ended December 31, 2009.  Our marketing
organization creates and executes marketing programs intended to increase
customer relationships, retain existing customers and cross-sell additional
products to current customers.  We monitor the effectiveness of our
marketing efforts, customer perception, competition, pricing, and service
preferences, among other factors, to increase our responsiveness to our
customers. 

Programming  

General 

We
believe that offering a wide variety of programming influences a customer s
decision to subscribe to and retain our cable services.  We rely on
market research, customer demographics and local programming preferences to
determine channel offerings in each of our markets.  We obtain basic
and premium programming from a number of suppliers, usually pursuant to written
contracts.  Our programming contracts generally continue for a fixed
period of time, usually from three to ten years, and are subject to negotiated
renewal.  Some programming suppliers offer financial incentives to
support the launch of a channel and/or ongoing marketing support.  We
also negotiate volume discount pricing structures.  Programming costs
are usually payable each month based on calculations performed by us and are
generally subject to annual cost escalations and audits by the
programmers. 

Costs 

Programming
is usually made available to us for a license fee, which is generally paid based
on the number of customers to whom we make such programming
available.  Such license fees may include  volume  discounts available
for higher numbers of customers, as well as discounts for channel placement or
service penetration.  Some channels are available without cost to us
for a limited period of time, after which we pay for the
programming.  For home shopping channels, we receive a percentage of
the revenue attributable to our customers  purchases, as well as, in some
instances, incentives for channel placement. 

Our cable
programming costs have increased in every year we have operated in excess of
customary inflationary and cost-of-living type increases.  We expect
them to continue to increase, and at a higher rate than in 2009, due to a
variety of factors including amounts paid for retransmission consent, annual
increases imposed by programmers and additional programming, including
high-definition and OnDemand programming.  In particular, sports
programming costs have increased significantly over the past several
years.  In addition, contracts to purchase sports programming
sometimes provide for optional additional programming to be available on a
surcharge basis during the term of the contract. 

Federal
law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between
 must-carry  rights and an alternative  retransmission-consent 
regime.  When a station opts for the retransmission-consent regime, we
are not allowed to carry the station s signal without the station s
permission.  Continuing demands by owners of broadcast stations for
carriage of other services or cash payments to those broadcasters in exchange
for retransmission consent will likely increase our programming costs or require
us to cease carriage of popular programming, potentially leading to a loss of
customers in affected markets. 

Over the
past several years, our video service rates have not fully offset increasing
programming costs, and with the impact of increasing competition and other
marketplace factors, we do not expect them to do so in the foreseeable
future.  In addition, our inability to fully pass these programming
cost increases on to our video customers has had and is expected in the future
to have an adverse impact on our cash flow and operating margins associated with
the video product.   In order to mitigate
reductions of our operating margins due to rapidly increasing programming costs,
we continue to review our pricing and programming packaging strategies, and we
plan to continue to migrate certain program services from our basic level of
service to our digital tiers.  As we migrate our programming to our
digital tier packages, certain programming that was previously available to all
of our customers via an analog signal may only be part of an elective digital
tier package offered to our customers for an additional fee.  As a
result, we expect that the customer base upon which we pay programming fees will
proportionately decrease, and the overall expense for providing that service
will also decrease.  However, reductions in the size of certain
programming customer bases may result in the loss of specific volume discount
benefits. 

8 

We have
programming contracts that have expired and others that will expire at or before
the end of 2010.  We will seek to renegotiate the terms of these
agreements.  There can be no assurance that these agreements will be
renewed on favorable or comparable terms.  To the extent that we are
unable to reach agreement with certain programmers on terms that we believe are
reasonable, we have been, and may in the future be, forced to remove such
programming channels from our line-up, which may result in a loss of
customers. 

Franchises  

As of
December 31, 2009, our systems operated pursuant to a total of
approximately 3,200 franchises, permits, and similar authorizations issued by
local and state governmental authorities.  Such governmental
authorities often must approve a transfer to another party.  Most
franchises are subject to termination proceedings in the event of a material
breach.  In addition, most franchises require us to pay the granting
authority a franchise fee of up to 5.0% of revenues as defined in the various
agreements, which is the maximum amount that may be charged under the applicable
federal law.  We are entitled to and generally do pass this fee
through to the customer. 

Prior to
the scheduled expiration of most franchises, we generally initiate renewal
proceedings with the granting authorities.  This process usually takes
three years but can take a longer period of time.  The Communications
Act of 1934, as amended (the  Communications Act ), which is the primary federal
statute regulating interstate communications, provides for an orderly franchise
renewal process in which granting authorities may not unreasonably withhold
renewals.  In connection with the franchise renewal process, many
governmental authorities require the cable operator to make certain commitments,
such as building out certain of the franchise areas, customer service
requirements, and supporting and carrying public access
channels.  Historically we have been able to renew our franchises
without incurring significant costs, although any particular franchise may not
be renewed on commercially favorable terms or otherwise.  Our failure
to obtain renewals of our franchises, especially those in the major metropolitan
areas where we have the most customers, could have a material adverse effect on
our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or our liquidity,
including our ability to comply with our debt covenants.  See   
Regulation and Legislation   Video Services   Franchise Matters.  

Competition  

We face
competition in the areas of price, service offerings, and service
reliability.  We compete with other providers of video, high-speed
Internet access, telephone services, and other sources of home
entertainment.  We operate in a very competitive business environment,
which can adversely affect the results of our business and
operations.  We cannot predict the impact on us of broadband services
offered by our competitors. 

In terms
of competition for customers, we view ourselves as a member of the broadband
communications industry, which encompasses multi-channel video for television
and related broadband services, such as high-speed Internet, telephone, and
other interactive video services.  In the broadband industry, our
principal competitor for video services throughout our territory is direct
broadcast satellite ( DBS ) and our principal competitor for high-speed Internet
services is DSL provided by telephone companies.  Our principal
competitors for telephone services are established telephone companies, other
telephone service providers, and other carriers, including VoIP
providers.  Based on telephone companies  entry into video service and
the upgrades of their networks, they will become increasingly more significant
competitors for both high-speed Internet and video customers.  At this
time, we do not consider other cable operators to be significant competitors in
our overall market, as overbuilds are infrequent and geographically spotty
(although in any particular market, a cable operator overbuilder would likely be
a significant competitor at the local level). 

Our key
competitors include: 

DBS  

Direct
broadcast satellite is a significant competitor to cable systems.  The
DBS industry has grown rapidly over the last several years, and now serves more
than 32 million subscribers nationwide.  DBS service allows the
subscriber to receive video services directly via satellite using a dish
antenna. 

Video
compression technology and high powered satellites allow DBS providers to offer
more than 280 digital channels from a single satellite, thereby surpassing the
traditional analog cable system.  In 2009, major DBS competitors
offered a greater variety of channel packages, and were especially competitive
with promotional pricing for more basic services.  While we continue
to believe that the initial investment by a DBS customer exceeds that of

9 

a cable
customer, the initial equipment cost for DBS has decreased substantially, as the
DBS providers have aggressively marketed offers to new customers of incentives
for discounted or free equipment, installation, and multiple
units.  DBS providers are able to offer service nationwide and are
able to establish a national image and branding with standardized offerings,
which together with their ability to avoid franchise fees of up to 5% of
revenues and property tax, leads to greater efficiencies and lower costs in the
lower tiers of service.  Also, DBS providers are currently offering
more high definition programming, including local high definition
programming.  However, we believe that cable-delivered OnDemand and
Subscription OnDemand services, which include HD programming, are superior to
DBS service, because cable headends can provide two-way communication to deliver
many titles which customers can access and control independently, whereas DBS
technology can only make available a much smaller number of titles with DVR-like
customer control.  However, joint marketing arrangements between some
DBS providers and telecommunications carriers allow similar bundling of services
in certain areas.  DBS providers have also made attempts at deployment
of high-speed Internet access services via satellite, but those services have
been technically constrained and of limited appeal. 

Telephone
Companies and Utilities 

Our
telephone service competes directly with established telephone companies and
other carriers, including Internet-based VoIP providers, for voice service
customers.  Because we offer voice services, we are subject to
considerable competition from telephone companies and other telecommunications
providers, including wireless providers with an increasing number of consumers
abandoning wired telephone services.  The telecommunications industry
is highly competitive and includes competitors with greater financial and
personnel resources, strong brand name recognition, and long-standing
relationships with regulatory authorities and customers.  Moreover,
mergers, joint ventures and alliances among our competitors have resulted in
providers capable of offering cable television, Internet, and telephone services
in direct competition with us. 

Most
telephone companies, which already have plant, an existing customer base, and
other operational functions in place (such as billing and service personnel),
offer DSL service.  DSL service allows Internet access to subscribers
at data transmission speeds greater than those available over conventional
telephone lines.  We believe DSL service is competitive with
high-speed Internet service and is often offered at prices lower than our
Internet services, although often at speeds lower than the speeds we
offer.  However, DSL providers may currently be in a better position
to offer data services to businesses since their networks tend to be more
complete in commercial areas.  They may also have the ability to
bundle telephone with Internet services for a higher percentage of their
customers.  We expect DSL to remain a significant competitor to our
high-speed Internet services.  In addition, the continuing deployment
of fiber optics into telephone companies  networks (primarily by Verizon
Communications, Inc. ( Verizon )) will enable them to provide even higher
bandwidth Internet services. 

Telephone
companies, including AT T Inc. ( AT T ) and Verizon, offer video and
other services in competition with us, and we expect they will increasingly do
so in the future.  Upgraded portions of these networks carry two-way
video, data services and provide digital voice services similar to
ours.  In the case of Verizon, high-speed data services (fiber optic
service ( FiOS )) operate at speeds as high as or higher than
ours.  In addition, these companies continue to offer their
traditional telephone services, as well as service bundles that include wireless
voice services provided by affiliated companies.  Based on internal
estimates, we believe that AT T and Verizon are offering video services in
areas serving approximately 26% to 31% of our estimated homes passed as of
December 31, 2009 and we have experienced increased customer losses in these
areas.  AT T and Verizon have also launched campaigns to capture
more of the multiple dwelling unit ( MDU ) market.  Additional
upgrades and product launches are expected in markets in which we
operate. 

In
addition to telephone companies obtaining franchises or alternative
authorizations in some areas and seeking them in others, they have been
successful through various means in reducing or streamlining the franchising
requirements applicable to them.  They have had significant success at
the federal and state level, securing an FCC ruling and numerous state franchise
laws that facilitate their entry into the video marketplace.  Because
telephone companies have been successful in avoiding or reducing the franchise
and other regulatory requirements that remain applicable to cable operators like
us, their competitive posture has often been enhanced.  The large
scale entry of major telephone companies as direct competitors in the video
marketplace has adversely affected the profitability and valuation of our cable
systems. 

Additionally,
we are subject to limited competition from utilities that possess fiber optic
transmission lines capable of transmitting signals with minimal signal
distortion.  Certain utilities are also developing broadband over
power line technology, which may allow the provision of Internet and other
broadband services to homes and offices. 

10 

Broadcast
Television 

Cable
television has long competed with broadcast television, which consists of
television signals that the viewer is able to receive without charge using an
 off-air  antenna.  The extent of such competition is dependent upon
the quality and quantity of broadcast signals available through  off-air 
reception, compared to the services provided by the local cable
system.  Traditionally, cable television has provided higher picture
quality and more channel offerings than broadcast
television.  However, the recent licensing of digital spectrum by the
FCC now provides traditional broadcasters with the ability to deliver high
definition television pictures and multiple digital-quality program streams, as
well as advanced digital services such as subscription video and data
transmission. 

Traditional
Overbuilds 

Cable
systems are operated under non-exclusive franchises historically granted by
state and local authorities.  More than one cable system may legally
be built in the same area.  It is possible that a franchising
authority might grant a second franchise to another cable operator and that such
franchise might contain terms and conditions more favorable than those afforded
us.  In addition, entities willing to establish an open video system,
under which they offer unaffiliated programmers non-discriminatory access to a
portion of the system s cable system, may be able to avoid local franchising
requirements.  Well-financed businesses from outside the cable
industry, such as public utilities that already possess fiber optic and other
transmission lines in the areas they serve, may over time become
competitors.  There are a number of cities that have constructed their
own cable systems, in a manner similar to city-provided utility
services.  There also has been interest in traditional cable
overbuilds by private companies not affiliated with established local exchange
carriers.  Constructing a competing cable system is a capital
intensive process which involves a high degree of risk.  We believe
that in order to be successful, a competitor s overbuild would need to be able
to serve the homes and businesses in the overbuilt area with equal or better
service quality, on a more cost-effective basis than we can.  Any such
overbuild operation would require access to capital or access to facilities
already in place that are capable of delivering cable television
programming. 

As of
December 31, 2009, excluding telephone companies, we are aware of
traditional overbuild situations impacting approximately 8% to 9% of our total
homes passed and potential traditional overbuild situations in areas servicing
approximately an additional 1% of our total homes passed.  Additional
overbuild situations may occur, especially given the potential for broadband
overbuilds funded by the  American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.  

Private
Cable 

Additional
competition is posed by satellite master antenna television systems, or SMATV
systems, serving MDUs, such as condominiums, apartment complexes, and private
residential communities.  Private cable systems can offer improved
reception of local television stations, and many of the same satellite-delivered
program services that are offered by cable systems.  Although
disadvantaged from a programming cost perspective, SMATV systems currently
benefit from operating advantages not available to franchised cable systems,
including fewer regulatory burdens and no requirement to service low density or
economically depressed communities.  The FCC previously adopted
regulations that favor SMATV and private cable operators serving MDU complexes,
allowing them to continue to secure exclusive contracts with MDU owners. 
The FCC is currently considering whether to restrict their ability to enter into
similar exclusive arrangements.  This sort of regulatory disparity would
provide a competitive advantage to certain of our current and potential
competitors. 

Other
Competitors 

Local
wireless Internet services have recently begun to operate in markets using
available unlicensed radio spectrum.  Some cellular phone service
operators are also marketing PC cards offering wireless broadband access to
their cellular networks.  These service options offer another
alternative to cable-based Internet access. 

Internet
Delivered Video 

High-speed
Internet access facilitates the streaming of video into homes and
businesses.  As the quality and availability of video streaming over
the Internet improves, we expect video streaming to compete with the traditional
delivery of video programming services over cable systems.  It is
possible that programming suppliers will consider bypassing cable operators and
market their services directly to the consumer through video streaming over the
Internet.  If customers were to choose to receive video over the
Internet rather than through our basic or digital video services, we could
experience a reduction in our video revenues. 

11 

Regulation
and Legislation 

The
following summary addresses the key regulatory and legislative developments
affecting the cable industry and our three primary services: video service,
high-speed Internet service, and telephone service.  Cable system
operations are extensively regulated by the federal government (primarily the
FCC), certain state governments, and many local governments.  A
failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to substantial
penalties.  Our business can be dramatically impacted by changes to
the existing regulatory framework, whether triggered by legislative,
administrative, or judicial rulings.  Congress and the FCC have
frequently revisited the subject of communications regulation often designed to
increase competition to the cable industry, and they are likely to do so in the
future.  We could be materially disadvantaged in the future if we are
subject to new regulations that do not equally impact our key
competitors.  We cannot provide assurance that the already extensive
regulation of our business will not be expanded in the future. 

Video  Service  

Cable Rate
Regulation.   The cable industry has operated under a federal
rate regulation regime for more than a decade.  The regulations
currently restrict the prices that cable systems charge for the minimum level of
video programming service, referred to as  basic service,  and associated
equipment.  All other cable offerings are now universally exempt from
rate regulation.  Although basic service rate regulation operates
pursuant to a federal formula, local governments, commonly referred to as local
franchising authorities, are primarily responsible for administering this
regulation.  The majority of our local franchising authorities have
never been certified to regulate basic service cable rates (and order rate
reductions and refunds), but they generally retain the right to do so (subject
to potential regulatory limitations under state franchising laws), except in
those specific communities facing  effective competition,  as defined under
federal law.  We have already secured FCC recognition of effective
competition, and become rate deregulated, in many of our
communities. 

There
have been frequent calls to impose expanded rate regulation on the cable
industry.  Confronted with rapidly increasing cable programming costs,
it is possible that Congress may adopt new constraints on the retail pricing or
packaging of cable programming.  For example, there has been
legislative and regulatory interest in requiring cable operators to offer
historically combined programming services on an   la carte basis. Any such
mandate could adversely affect our operations. 

Federal
rate regulations generally require cable operators to allow subscribers to
purchase premium or pay-per-view services without the necessity of subscribing
to any tier of service, other than the basic service tier.  The
applicability of this rule in certain situations remains unclear, and adverse
decisions by the FCC could affect our pricing and packaging of
services.  As we attempt to respond to a changing marketplace with
competitive pricing practices, such as targeted promotions and discounts, we may
face Communications Act uniform pricing requirements that impede our ability to
compete. 

Must
Carry/Retransmission Consent.   There are two alternative legal
methods for carriage of local broadcast television stations on cable
systems.  Federal  must carry  regulations require cable systems to
carry local broadcast television stations upon the request of the local
broadcaster.  Alternatively, federal law includes  retransmission
consent  regulations, by which popular commercial television stations can
prohibit cable carriage unless the cable operator first negotiates for
 retransmission consent,  which may be conditioned on significant payments or
other concessions.  Broadcast stations must elect  must carry  or
 retransmission consent  every three years, with the election date of October 1,
2008, for the current period of 2009 through 2011.  Either option has
a potentially adverse effect on our business by utilizing bandwidth
capacity.  In addition, popular stations invoking  retransmission
consent  increasingly have been demanding cash compensation in their
negotiations with cable operators. 

In
September 2007, the FCC adopted an order increasing the cable industry s
existing must-carry obligations by requiring cable operators to offer  must
carry  broadcast signals in both analog and digital format (dual carriage) for a
three year period after the broadcast television industry completed its ongoing
transition from an analog to digital format, which occurred on June 12,
2009.  The burden could increase further if cable systems were ever
required to carry multiple program streams included within a single digital
broadcast transmission (multicast carriage), which the recent FCC order did not
address.  Additional government-mandated broadcast carriage
obligations could disrupt existing programming commitments, interfere with our
preferred use of limited channel capacity, and limit our ability to offer
services that appeal to our customers and generate revenues.  We may
need to take additional operational steps and/or make further operating and
capital investments to ensure that customers not otherwise equipped to receive
digital programming, retain access to broadcast programming. 

12 

Access
Channels.   Local franchise agreements often require cable
operators to set aside certain channels for public, educational, and
governmental access programming.  Federal law also requires cable
systems to designate a portion of their channel capacity for commercial leased
access by unaffiliated third parties, who generally offer programming that our
customers do not particularly desire.  The FCC adopted new rules in
2007 mandating a significant reduction in the rates that operators can charge
commercial leased access users and imposing additional administrative
requirements that would be burdensome on the cable industry.  The
effect of the FCC s new rules was stayed by a federal court, pending a cable
industry appeal and a finding that the new rules did not comply with the
requirements of the Office of Management and Budget.  Under federal
statute, commercial leased access programmers are entitled to use up to 15% of a
cable system s capacity.  Increased activity in this area could
further burden the channel capacity of our cable systems, and potentially limit
the amount of services we are able to offer and may necessitate further
investments to expand our network capacity. 

Access to
Programming.   The Communications Act and the FCC s  program
access  rules generally prevent satellite cable programming vendors in which a
cable operator has an attributable interest and satellite broadcast programming
vendors from favoring cable operators over competing multichannel video
distributors, such as DBS, and limit the ability of such vendors to offer
exclusive programming arrangements to cable operators.  Given the
heightened competition and media consolidation that we face, it is possible that
we will find it increasingly difficult to gain access to popular programming at
favorable terms.  Such difficulty could adversely impact our
business. 

Ownership
Restrictions.   Federal regulation of the communications field
traditionally included a host of ownership restrictions, which limited the size
of certain media entities and restricted their ability to enter into competing
enterprises.  Through a series of legislative, regulatory, and
judicial actions, most of these restrictions have been either eliminated or
substantially relaxed.  Changes in this regulatory area could alter
the business environment in which we operate. 

Pole
Attachments.   The Communications Act requires most utilities
owning utility poles to provide cable systems with access to poles and conduits
and simultaneously subjects the rates charged for this access to either federal
or state regulation.  The Communications Act specifies that
significantly higher rates apply if the cable plant is providing
 telecommunications  services rather than only video
services.  Although the FCC previously determined that the lower rate
was applicable to the mixed use of a pole attachment for the provision of both
video and Internet access services (a determination upheld by the U.S. Supreme
Court), the FCC issued a  Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
 ( NPRM ) on November 20, 2007, in which it  tentatively concludes  that
such mixed use determination would likely be set aside.  Under this
NPRM, the FCC is seeking comment on its proposal to apply a single rate for all
pole attachments over which a cable operator provides Internet access and other
services, that allocates to the cable operators the additional cost associated
with the  unusable space  of the pole. Such rate change could likely result in a
substantial increase in our pole attachment costs. 

Cable
Equipment.   In 1996, Congress enacted a statute seeking to
promote the "competitive availability of navigational devices" by allowing cable
subscribers to use set-top boxes obtained from third parties, including
third-party retailers.  The FCC has undertaken several steps to implement
this statute designed to promote the retail sale of set-top boxes and other
equipment that can be used to receive video services.  The FCC requires
that security functions (which allow a cable operator to control who may access
its services and remains under the operator's exclusive control) be unbundled
from the basic channel navigation functions and requires that those security
functions be made available through "CableCARDs" that connect to customer-owned
televisions and other devices equipped to receive one-way analog and digital
video service without the need for an operator-provided set-top box. 
Effective July 1, 2007, cable operators were prohibited from acquiring for
deployment integrated set-top boxes that combine both channel navigation and
security functions.  

The FCC
has been considering regulatory proposals for "plug-and-play" retail devices
that could access two-way cable services. In April 2008, we joined a multi-party
contract, among major consumer electronics and information technology companies
and the six largest cable operators in the United States, to agree on how
technology we use to support our current generation set-top boxes will be
deployed in cable networks and navigation devices to enable retail devices
to access two-way cable services without impairing our ability to
innovate.  In December 2009, the FCC commenced a preliminary inquiry into
these and alternative approaches to set-top boxes and consumer
electronics.  Some of the alternative approaches, if adopted, could impose
substantial costs on us and impair out ability to innovate.  

MDUs / Inside
Wiring .  The FCC has adopted a series of regulations designed
to spur competition to established cable operators in MDU
complexes.  These regulations allow our competitors to access certain
existing cable wiring inside MDUs.  The FCC also adopted regulations
limiting the ability of established cable operators, like us, to enter

13 

into
exclusive service contracts for MDU complexes.  Significantly, it has
not yet imposed a similar restriction on private cable operators and SMATV
systems serving MDU properties but the issue is still pending before the
FCC.  In their current form, the FCC s regulations in this area favor
our competitors. 

Privacy 
 Regulation .  The
Communications Act limits our ability to collect and disclose subscribers 
personally identifiable information for our video, telephone, and high-speed
Internet services, as well as provides requirements to safeguard such
information.  We are subject to additional federal, state, and local
laws and regulations that impose additional subscriber and employee privacy
restrictions.  Further, the FCC, FTC, and many states regulate and
restrict the marketing practices of cable operators, including telemarketing and
online marketing efforts. 

Other FCC
Regulatory Matters.   FCC regulations cover a variety of
additional areas, including, among other things: (1) equal employment
opportunity obligations; (2) customer service standards; (3) technical service
standards; (4) mandatory blackouts of certain network, syndicated and sports
programming; (5) restrictions on political advertising; (6) restrictions on
advertising in children's programming; (7) restrictions on origination
cablecasting; (8) restrictions on carriage of lottery programming; (9)
sponsorship identification obligations; (10) closed captioning of video
programming; (11) licensing of systems and facilities; (12) maintenance of
public files; and (13) emergency alert systems.  Each of these
regulations restricts our business practices to varying degrees. 

It is
possible that Congress or the FCC will expand or modify its regulation of cable
systems in the future, and we cannot predict at this time how that might impact
our business. 

Copyright.   Cable
systems are subject to a federal copyright compulsory license covering carriage
of television and radio broadcast signals.  The possible modification
or elimination of this compulsory copyright license is the subject of continuing
legislative and administrative review and could adversely affect our ability to
obtain desired broadcast programming.  There is uncertainty regarding
certain applications of the compulsory copyright license, including the royalty
treatment of distant broadcast signals that are not available to all cable
system subscribers served by a single headend.  The Copyright Office
is currently conducting an inquiry to consider a variety of issues affecting
cable s compulsory copyright license, including how the compulsory copyright
license should apply to newly-offered digital broadcast
signals.  Current uncertainty regarding the compulsory copyright
license could lead to legislative proposals, new administrative rules, or
judicial decisions that would increase our compulsory copyright payments for the
carriage of broadcast signals including legislation that is now pending in
Congress. Legislation is now pending in Congress that would resolve much of the
current uncertainty regarding this compulsory copyright license. In particular,
the legislation would confirm that copyright fees associated with the delivery
of distant broadcast signals are limited to the cable system subscribers who
actually receive those signals. The new legislation, if adopted, would also
require cable systems to pay an additional royalty fee for each digital
multicast of a retransmitted distant broadcast signal and would provide
copyright owners with a new right to audit our semi-annual royalty
filings. 

Copyright
clearances for non-broadcast programming services are arranged through private
negotiations.  Cable operators also must obtain music rights for
locally originated programming and advertising from the major music performing
rights organizations.  These licensing fees have been the source of
litigation in the past, and we cannot predict with certainty whether license fee
disputes may arise in the future. 

Franchise
Matters.   Cable systems generally are operated pursuant to
nonexclusive franchises granted by a municipality or other state or local
government entity in order to utilize and cross public
rights-of-way.  Although some state franchising laws grant indefinite
franchises, cable franchises generally are granted for fixed terms and in many
cases include monetary penalties for noncompliance and may be terminable if the
franchisee fails to comply with material provisions.  The specific
terms and conditions of cable franchises vary significantly between
jurisdictions.  Each franchise generally contains provisions governing
cable operations, franchise fees, system construction, maintenance, technical
performance, customer service standards, and changes in the ownership of the
franchisee.  A number of states subject cable systems to the
jurisdiction of centralized state government agencies, such as public utility
commissions.  Although local franchising authorities have considerable
discretion in establishing franchise terms, certain federal protections benefit
cable operators.  For example, federal law caps local franchise fees
and includes renewal procedures designed to protect incumbent franchisees from
arbitrary denials of renewal.  Even if a franchise is renewed,
however, the local franchising authority may seek to impose new and more onerous
requirements as a condition of renewal.  Similarly, if a local
franchising authority's consent is required for the purchase or sale of a cable
system, the local franchising authority may attempt to impose more burdensome
requirements as a condition for providing its consent. 

14 

The
traditional cable franchising regime is currently undergoing significant change
as a result of various federal and state actions.  In a series of
recent rulemakings, the FCC adopted new rules that streamlined entry for new
competitors (particularly those affiliated with telephone companies) and reduced
certain franchising burdens for these new entrants.  The FCC adopted
more modest relief for existing cable operators. 

At the
same time, a substantial number of states have adopted franchising
laws.  Again, these laws were principally designed to streamline entry
for new competitors, and they often provide advantages for these new entrants
that are not immediately available to existing cable operators.  In
many instances, these franchising regimes do not apply to established cable
operators until the existing franchise expires or a competitor directly enters
the franchise territory.  In a number of instances, however, incumbent
cable operators have the ability to immediately  opt into  the new franchising
regime, which can provide significant regulatory relief.  The exact
nature of these state franchising laws, and their varying application to new and
existing video providers, will impact our franchising obligations and our
competitive position. 

Internet
Service 

Over the
past several years, proposals have been advanced at the FCC and Congress to
adopt  net neutrality  rules that would require cable operators offering
Internet service to provide non-discriminatory access of customers to their
networks and could interfere with the ability of cable operators to manage their
networks.  The FCC issued a non-binding policy statement in 2005
establishing four basic principles to guide its ongoing policymaking activities
regarding high-speed Internet and related services.  These principles
provide that consumers are entitled to:  (i) access lawful Internet
content of their choice; (ii) run applications and services of their choice,
subject to the needs of law enforcement; (iii) connect their choice of legal
devices that do not harm the network; and (iv) enjoy competition among network
providers, application and service providers, and content
providers.  In August 2008, the FCC issued an order concerning one
Internet network management practice in use by another cable operator,
effectively treating the four principles as rules and ordering a change in
network management practices.  This decision is on appeal.  In
October 2009, the FCC released a NPRM seeking additional comment on draft rules
to codify these principles and to consider further network neutrality
requirements, including two new principles.  The first new rule would
prohibit discrimination against lawful content, specifically stating that
broadband providers cannot discriminate against particular Internet content or
applications and cannot block or degrade lawful traffic over their networks or
favor some content or applications over others. The second new rule would
require  transparency  in advising customers in greater detail about the terms
of service, including network management tools utilized by the service provider.
In addition to possible FCC action, legislative proposals have been introduced
in Congress to mandate how broadband providers manage their networks, and the
broadband provisions of the newly enacted American Recovery and Reinvestment Act
already mandate adherence to the FCC s 2005 principles as a condition to the
receipt of broadband funding.  The FCC s Rulemaking and additional
proposals for new legislation could impose additional obligations on high-speed
Internet providers.   Any such rules or statutes could limit our
ability to manage our cable systems (including use for other services), to
obtain value for use of our cable systems and respond to
competition.  

As the
Internet has matured, it has become the subject of increasing regulatory
interest.  Congress and federal regulators have adopted a wide range
of measures directly or potentially affecting Internet use, including, for
example, consumer privacy, copyright protections (which afford copyright owners
certain rights against us that could adversely affect our relationship with a
customer accused of violating copyright laws), defamation liability, taxation,
obscenity, and unsolicited commercial e-mail.  Additionally, the FCC
and Congress are considering subjecting high-speed Internet access services to
the Universal Service funding requirements.  This would impose
significant new costs on our high-speed Internet service.  State and
local governmental organizations have also adopted Internet-related
regulations.  These various governmental jurisdictions are also
considering additional regulations in these and other areas, such as pricing,
service and product quality, and intellectual property ownership.  The
adoption of new Internet regulations or the adaptation of existing laws to the
Internet could adversely affect our business. 

Telephone
Service 

The 1996
Telecom Act created a more favorable regulatory environment for us to provide
telecommunications services than had previously existed.  In
particular, it limited the regulatory role of local franchising authorities and
established requirements ensuring that providers of traditional
telecommunications services can interconnect with other telephone companies to
provide competitive services.  Many implementation details remain
unresolved, and there are substantial regulatory changes being considered that
could impact, in both positive and negative ways, our primary telecommunications
competitors.  The FCC and state regulatory authorities are
considering, for example,  

15 

whether
common carrier regulation traditionally applied to incumbent local exchange
carriers should be modified and whether any of those requirements should be
extended to VoIP providers.  The FCC has already determined that
providers of telephone services using Internet Protocol technology must comply
with 911 emergency service opportunities ( E911 ), requirements for
accommodating law enforcement wiretaps (CALEA), Universal Service fund
collection, Customer Proprietary Network Information requirements, and telephone
relay requirements.  It is unclear whether and how the FCC will apply
additional types of common carrier regulations, such as inter-carrier
compensation to alternative voice technology.  In March 2007, a
federal appeals court affirmed the FCC s decision concerning federal regulation
of certain VoIP services, but declined to specifically find that VoIP service
provided by cable companies, such as we provide, should be regulated only at the
federal level.  As a result, some states have begun proceedings to
subject cable VoIP services to state level regulation.  Also, the FCC
and Congress continue to consider to what extent, VoIP service will have
interconnection rights with telephone companies.  It is unclear how
these regulatory matters ultimately will be resolved. 

Employees  

As of
December 31, 2009, we had approximately 16,700 full-time equivalent
employees.  At December 31, 2009, approximately 77 of our employees
were represented by collective bargaining agreements.  We have never
experienced a work stoppage. 

Item 1A.      Risk
Factors.  

Risks Related to Our Emergence From
Bankruptcy  

Our actual
financial results may vary significantly from the projections filed with the
Bankruptcy Court.     

In
connection with the Plan, Charter was required to prepare projected financial
information to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court the feasibility of the Plan
and our ability to continue operations upon emergence from bankruptcy. 
Charter filed projected financial information with the Bankruptcy Court most
recently on May 7, 2009 as part of the Disclosure Statement approved by the
Bankruptcy Court.  The projections reflect numerous assumptions concerning
anticipated future performance and prevailing and anticipated market and
economic conditions that were and continue to be beyond our control. 
Projections are inherently subject to uncertainties and to a wide variety of
significant business, economic and competitive risks.  Neither the
projections nor any version of the Disclosure Statement should be considered or
relied upon.  After the date of the Disclosure Statement and during
2009, we recognized an impairment to our franchise values because of the
lower than anticipated growth in revenues experienced during the first three
quarters of 2009 and an expected reduction of future cash flows as a result of
the economic and competitive environment.   

Because our
consolidated financial statements reflect fresh start accounting adjustments
made upon emergence from bankruptcy, and because of the effects of the
transactions that became effective pursuant to the Plan, financial information
in the post-emergence financial statements is not comparable to our financial
information from prior periods.  

Upon our
emergence from bankruptcy, we adopted fresh start accounting pursuant to which
our reorganization value, which represents the fair value of the entity before
considering liabilities and approximates the amount a willing buyer would pay
for the assets of the entity immediately after the reorganization, was allocated
to the fair value of assets.  The amount remaining after allocation of
the reorganization value to the fair value of identified tangible and intangible
assets is reflected as goodwill, which is subject to periodic evaluation for
impairment.  Further, under fresh start accounting, the accumulated
deficit was eliminated.  In addition to fresh start accounting, our
consolidated financial statements reflect all effects of the transactions
contemplated by the Plan.  Thus, our balance sheets and statements of
operations data are not comparable in many respects to our consolidated balance
sheets and consolidated statements of operations data for periods prior to our
adoption of fresh start accounting and prior to accounting for the effects of
the reorganization. 

16 

Risks
Related to Our Significant Indebtedness 

We
have a significant amount of debt and may incur significant additional debt,
including secured debt, in the future, which could adversely affect our
financial health and our ability to react to changes in our
business. 

As of
September 30, 2009, our total principal amount of debt was approximately $21.7
billion.  The consummation of the Plan on November 30, 2009, resulted
in a reduction of the principal amount of our debt of approximately $8
billion.  However, we continue to have a significant amount of debt
and may (subject to applicable restrictions in our debt instruments) incur
additional debt in the future. As of December 31, 2009, our total principal
amount of debt was approximately $13.5 billion. 

Because
of our significant indebtedness, our ability to raise additional capital at
reasonable rates, or at all, is uncertain, and the ability of our subsidiaries
to make distributions or payments to their parent companies is subject to
availability of funds and restrictions under our subsidiaries' applicable debt
instruments and under applicable law. 

Our
significant amount of debt could have other important
consequences.  For example, the debt will or could: 

make
      us vulnerable to interest rate increases, because approximately 63% of our
      borrowings are, and may continue to be, subject to variable rates of
      interest; 

expose
      us to increased interest expense to the extent we refinance existing debt
      with higher cost debt; 

require
      us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operating
      activities to make payments on our debt, reducing our funds available for
      working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate
      expenses; 

limit
      our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business,
      the cable and telecommunications industries, and the economy at
      large; 

place
      us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately
      less debt; 

adversely
      affect our relationship with customers and
  suppliers; 

limit
      our ability to borrow additional funds in the future, or to access
      financing at the necessary level of the capital structure, due to
      applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our
  debt; 

make
      it more difficult for us to obtain
financing; 

make
      it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to the holders of our
      notes and for us to satisfy our obligations to the lenders under our
      credit facilities; and 

limit
      future increases in the value, or cause a decline in the value of our
      equity, which could limit our ability to raise additional capital by
      issuing equity. 

If
current debt amounts increase, the related risks that we now face will
intensify. 

The
agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and
limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business,
as well as significantly affect our liquidity. 

Our
credit facilities and the indentures governing our debt contain a number of
significant covenants that could adversely affect our ability to operate our
business, our liquidity, and our results of operations.  These
covenants restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries' ability
to: 

incur
      additional debt; 

repurchase
      or redeem equity interests and
debt; 

issue
      equity; 

make
      certain investments or
acquisitions; 

pay
      dividends or make other
distributions; 

dispose
      of assets or merge; 

enter
      into related party transactions;
and 

grant
      liens and pledge assets. 

Additionally,
the Charter Operating credit facilities require Charter Operating to comply with
a maximum total leverage covenant and a maximum first lien leverage
covenant.  The breach of any covenants or obligations in our
indentures or credit facilities, not otherwise waived or amended, could result
in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger
acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults
under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness.  In
addition, the secured lenders under the Charter Operating  

17 

credit
facilities, the holders of the Charter Operating senior second-lien notes, and
the secured lenders under the CCO Holdings credit facility could foreclose on
their collateral, which includes equity interests in our subsidiaries, and
exercise other rights of secured creditors.  Any default under those
credit facilities or the indentures governing our debt could adversely affect
our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability
to make payments on our notes and credit facilities, and could force us to seek
the protection of the bankruptcy laws.   

We
depend on generating (and having available to the applicable obligor) sufficient
cash flow to fund our debt obligations, capital expenditures, and ongoing
operations. 

We are
dependent on our cash on hand and cash flows from operating activities to fund
our debt obligations, capital expenditures and ongoing operations. 

Our
ability to service our debt and to fund our planned capital expenditures and
ongoing operations will depend on our ability to generate and grow cash flow and
our access (by dividend or otherwise) to additional liquidity
sources.  Our ability to generate and grow cash flow is dependent on
many factors, including: 

our
      ability to sustain and grow revenues and cash flows from operating
      activities by offering video, high-speed Internet, telephone and other
      services to residential and commercial customers, and to maintain and grow
      our customer base, particularly in the face of increasingly aggressive
      competition and the difficult economic conditions in the United
      States; 

the
      impact of competition from other distributors, including but not limited
      to incumbent telephone companies, direct broadcast satellite operators,
      wireless broadband providers and DSL providers and competition from video
      provided over the Internet; 

general
      business conditions, economic uncertainty or downturn and the significant
      downturn in the housing sector and overall
  economy; 

our
      ability to obtain programming at reasonable prices or to raise prices to
      offset, in whole or in part, the effects of higher programming costs
      (including retransmission
consents); 

our
      ability to adequately deliver customer service;
  and 

the
      effects of governmental regulation on our
  business. 

Some of
these factors are beyond our control.  It is also difficult to assess
the impact that the general economic downturn will have on future operations and
financial results.  The general economic downturn has resulted in
reduced spending by customers and advertisers, which has impacted our revenues
and our cash flows from operating activities from those that otherwise would
have been generated.  If we are unable to generate sufficient cash
flow or we are unable to access additional liquidity sources, we may not be able
to service and repay our debt, operate our business, respond to competitive
challenges, or fund our other liquidity and capital needs. 

Restrictions
in our subsidiaries' debt instruments and under applicable law limit their
ability to provide funds to us or our subsidiaries that are debt
issuers. 

Our
primary assets are our equity interests in our subsidiaries.  Our
operating subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and are not
obligated to make funds available to us for payments on our notes or other
obligations in the form of loans, distributions, or
otherwise.  Charter Operating s and CCO Holdings  ability to make
distributions to us or the applicable debt issuers to service debt obligations
is subject to their compliance with the terms of their credit facilities and
indentures, and restrictions under applicable law.  See  Part II. Item
7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Limitations on Distributions  and
   Summary of Restrictive Covenants of Our Notes   Restrictions on
Distributions.   Under the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, our
subsidiaries may only make distributions if the relevant entity has  surplus  as
defined in the act.  Under fraudulent transfer laws, our subsidiaries
may not pay dividends if the relevant entity is insolvent or is rendered
insolvent thereby.  The measures of insolvency for purposes of these
fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding
to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred.  Generally,
however, an entity would be considered insolvent if: 

the
      sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the
      fair saleable value of all its
assets; 

the
      present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that
      would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts,
      including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature;
      or 

it
      could not pay its debts as they became
due. 

18 

While we
believe that our relevant subsidiaries currently have surplus and are not
insolvent, there can otherwise be no assurance that these subsidiaries will not
become insolvent or will be permitted to make distributions in the future in
compliance with these restrictions in amounts needed to service our
indebtedness.  Our direct or indirect subsidiaries include the
borrowers under the CCO Holdings credit facility and the borrowers and
guarantors under the Charter Operating credit facilities.  Charter
Operating is also an obligor, and its subsidiaries are guarantors under senior
second-lien notes, and CCO Holdings is an obligor under its senior
notes.  As of December 31, 2009, our total principal amount of debt
was approximately $13.5 billion. 

In the
event of bankruptcy, liquidation, or dissolution of one or more of our
subsidiaries, that subsidiary's assets would first be applied to satisfy its own
obligations, and following such payments, such subsidiary may not have
sufficient assets remaining to make payments to its parent company as an equity
holder or otherwise. In that event: 

the
      lenders under CCO Holdings  credit facility and Charter Operating's credit
      facilities and senior second-lien notes, whose interests are secured by
      substantially all of our operating assets, and all holders of other debt
      of CCO Holdings and Charter Operating, will have the right to be paid in
      full before us from any of our subsidiaries' assets;
  and 

Charter
      and CCH I, the holders of preferred membership interests in our
      subsidiary, CC VIII, would have a claim on a portion of CC VIII s assets
      that may reduce the amounts available for repayment to holders of our
      outstanding notes. 

All
of our outstanding debt is subject to change of control
provisions.  We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary
to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness following a change of control,
which would place us in default under the applicable debt
instruments. 

We may
not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill our obligations
under our notes and our credit facilities following a change of
control.  Under the indentures governing our notes, upon the
occurrence of specified change of control events, the applicable note issuer is
required to offer to repurchase all of its outstanding
notes.  However, we may not have sufficient access to funds at the
time of the change of control event to make the required repurchase of the
applicable notes, and all of the notes issuers are limited in their ability to
make distributions or other payments to their respective parent company to fund
any required repurchase.  In addition, a change of control under the
Charter Operating credit facilities would result in a default under those credit
facilities.  Because such credit facilities and our subsidiaries 
notes are obligations of our subsidiary, the credit facilities and our
subsidiaries  notes would have to be repaid by our subsidiaries before their
assets could be available to their parent companies to repurchase their
notes.  Any failure to make or complete a change of control offer
would place the applicable note issuer or borrower in default under its
notes.  The failure of our subsidiaries to make a change of control
offer or repay the amounts accelerated under their notes and credit facilities
would place them in default. 

Risks Related to Our
Business  

We
operate in a very competitive business environment, which affects our ability to
attract and retain customers and can adversely affect our business and
operations. 

The
industry in which we operate is highly competitive and has become more so in
recent years.  In some instances, we compete against companies with
fewer regulatory burdens, better access to financing, greater personnel
resources, greater resources for marketing, greater and more favorable brand
name recognition, and long-established relationships with regulatory authorities
and customers.  Increasing consolidation in the cable industry and the
repeal of certain ownership rules have provided additional benefits to certain
of our competitors, either through access to financing, resources, or
efficiencies of scale. 

Our
principal competitors for video services throughout our territory are DBS
providers.  The two largest DBS providers are DirecTV and DISH
Network.  Competition from DBS, including intensive marketing efforts
with aggressive pricing, exclusive programming and increased high definition
broadcasting has had an adverse impact on our ability to retain customers. DBS
has grown rapidly over the last several years.  DBS companies have
also expanded their activities in the MDU market.  The cable industry,
including us, has lost a significant number of video customers to DBS
competition, and we face serious challenges in this area in the
future. 

Telephone
companies, including two major telephone companies, AT T and Verizon, offer
video and other services in competition with us, and we expect they will
increasingly do so in the future.  Upgraded portions of these networks
carry two-way video, data services and provide digital voice services similar to
ours.  In the case of  

19 

Verizon,
high-speed data services operate at speeds as high as or higher than
ours.  In addition, these companies continue to offer their
traditional telephone services, as well as service bundles that include wireless
voice services provided by affiliated companies.  Based on our
internal estimates, we believe that AT T and Verizon are offering video
services in areas serving approximately 26% to 31% of our estimated homes passed
as of December 31, 2009, and we have experienced increased customer losses in
these areas.  AT T and Verizon have also launched campaigns to
capture more of the MDU market.  Additional upgrades and product
launches are expected in markets in which we operate. With respect to our
Internet access services, we face competition, including intensive marketing
efforts and aggressive pricing, from telephone companies and other providers of
DSL.  DSL service competes with our high-speed Internet service and is
often offered at prices lower than our Internet services, although often at
speeds lower than the speeds we offer.  In addition, in many of our
markets, these companies have entered into co-marketing arrangements with DBS
providers to offer service bundles combining video services provided by a DBS
provider with DSL and traditional telephone and wireless services offered by the
telephone companies and their affiliates.  These service bundles offer
customers similar pricing and convenience advantages as our
bundles.  Moreover, as we continue to market our telephone offerings,
we will face considerable competition from established telephone companies and
other carriers. 

The
existence of more than one cable system operating in the same territory is
referred to as an overbuild.  Overbuilds could adversely affect our
growth, financial condition, and results of operations, by creating or
increasing competition.  Based on internal estimates and excluding
telephone companies, as of December 31, 2009, we are aware of traditional
overbuild situations impacting approximately 8% to 9% of our estimated homes
passed, and potential traditional overbuild situations in areas servicing
approximately an additional 1% of our estimated homes
passed.  Additional overbuild situations may occur in other
systems. 

In order
to attract new customers, from time to time we make promotional offers,
including offers of temporarily reduced price or free service.  These
promotional programs result in significant advertising, programming and
operating expenses, and also may require us to make capital expenditures to
acquire and install customer premise equipment.  Customers who
subscribe to our services as a result of these offerings may not remain
customers following the end of the promotional period.  A failure to
retain customers could have a material adverse effect on our
business. 

Mergers,
joint ventures, and alliances among franchised, wireless, or private cable
operators, DBS providers, local exchange carriers, and others, may provide
additional benefits to some of our competitors, either through access to
financing, resources, or efficiencies of scale, or the ability to provide
multiple services in direct competition with us. 

In
addition to the various competitive factors discussed above, our business is
subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and
entertainment time of consumers. Our business competes with all other sources of
entertainment and information delivery, including broadcast television, movies,
live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games, print media,
and the Internet.  Technological advancements, such as
video-on-demand, new video formats, and Internet streaming and downloading, have
increased the number of entertainment and information delivery choices available
to consumers, and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation.
The increasing number of choices available to audiences could also negatively
impact advertisers  willingness to purchase advertising from us, as well as the
price they are willing to pay for advertising.  If we do not respond
appropriately to further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices
available to consumers, our competitive position could deteriorate, and our
financial results could suffer. 

Our
services may not allow us to compete effectively.  Additionally, as we
expand our offerings to include other telecommunications services, and to
introduce new and enhanced services, we will be subject to competition from
other providers of the services we offer.  Competition may reduce our
expected growth of future cash flows which may contribute to future impairments
of our franchises and goodwill. 

Economic
conditions in the United States may adversely impact the growth of our
business. 

We
believe that the weakened economic conditions in the United States, including a
continued downturn in the housing market over the past year and increases in
unemployment, have adversely affected consumer demand for our services,
especially premium services, and have contributed to an increase in the number
of homes that replace their traditional telephone service with wireless service
thereby impacting the growth of our telephone business and also had a negative
impact on our advertising revenue.  These conditions have affected our
net customer additions and revenue growth during 2009 and contributed to the
franchise impairment charge incurred in 2009.  If these conditions do
not improve, we believe the growth of our business and results of operations
will be further adversely affected which may contribute to future impairments of
our franchises and goodwill. 

20 

We face risks
inherent in our telephone and commercial businesses.  

We may
encounter unforeseen difficulties as we increase the scale of our service
offerings to businesses.  We sell video, high-speed data and network
and transport services to businesses and have increased our focus on growing
this business.  In order to grow our commercial business, we expect to
increase expenditures on technology, equipment and personnel focused on the
commercial business.  Commercial business customers often require
service level agreements and generally have heightened customer expectations for
reliability of services.  If our efforts to build the infrastructure
to scale the commercial business are not successful, the growth of our
commercial services business would be limited.  Continued growth in
our residential telephone business faces risks.  The competitive
landscape for residential and commercial telephone services is intense; we face
competition from providers of Internet telephone services, as well as incumbent
telephone companies.  Further, we face increasing competition for
residential telephone services as more consumers in the United States are
replacing traditional telephone service with wireless service.  We
depend on interconnection and related services provided by certain third parties
for the growth of our commercial business.  As a result, our ability
to implement changes as the services grow may be limited.  If we are
unable to meet these service level requirements or expectations, our commercial
business could be adversely affected.  Finally, we expect advances in
communications technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and the
regulatory and legislative environment. Consequently, we are unable to predict
the effect that ongoing or future developments in these areas might have on our
telephone and commercial businesses and operations. 

Our
exposure to the credit risks of our customers, vendors and third parties could
adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial
condition. 

We are
exposed to risks associated with the potential financial instability of our
customers, many of whom have been adversely affected by the general economic
downturn.  Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year,
including falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, together with
significant increases in unemployment, have severely affected consumer
confidence and caused increased delinquencies or cancellations by our customers
or lead to unfavorable changes in the mix of products purchased.  The
general economic downturn has also affected advertising sales, as companies seek
to reduce expenditures and conserve cash.  These events have adversely
affected, and may continue to adversely affect our cash flow, results of
operations and financial condition. 

In
addition, we are susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial
instability of the vendors and third parties on which we rely to provide
products and services or to which we outsource certain functions.  The
same economic conditions that may affect our customers, as well as volatility
and disruption in the capital and credit markets, also could adversely affect
vendors and third parties and lead to significant increases in prices, reduction
in output or the bankruptcy of our vendors or third parties upon which we
rely.  Any interruption in the services provided by our vendors or by
third parties could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operation and
financial condition. 

We
may not have the ability to reduce the high growth rates of, or pass on to our
customers, our increasing programming costs, which would adversely affect our
cash flow and operating margins. 

Programming
has been, and is expected to continue to be, our largest operating expense
item.  In recent years, the cable industry has experienced a rapid
escalation in the cost of programming.  We expect programming costs to
continue to increase, and at a higher rate than in 2009, because of a variety of
factors including amounts paid for retransmission consent, annual increases
imposed by programmers and additional programming, including high definition and
OnDemand programming, being provided to customers.  The inability to
fully pass these programming cost increases on to our customers has had an
adverse impact on our cash flow and operating margins associated with the video
product.  We have programming contracts that have expired and others
that will expire at or before the end of 2010.  There can be no
assurance that these agreements will be renewed on favorable or comparable
terms.  To the extent that we are unable to reach agreement with
certain programmers on terms that we believe are reasonable we may be forced to
remove such programming channels from our line-up, which could result in a
further loss of customers. 

Increased
demands by owners of some broadcast stations for carriage of other services or
payments to those broadcasters for retransmission consent are likely to further
increase our programming costs.  Federal law allows commercial
television broadcast stations to make an election between  must-carry  rights
and an alternative  retransmission-consent  regime.  When a station
opts for the latter, cable operators are not allowed to carry the station s
signal without the station s permission.  In some cases, we carry
stations under short-term arrangements  

21 

while we
attempt to negotiate new long-term retransmission agreements.  If
negotiations with these programmers prove unsuccessful, they could require us to
cease carrying their signals, possibly for an indefinite period.  Any
loss of stations could make our video service less attractive to customers,
which could result in less subscription and advertising revenue.  In
retransmission-consent negotiations, broadcasters often condition consent with
respect to one station on carriage of one or more other stations or programming
services in which they or their affiliates have an interest.  Carriage
of these other services, as well as increased fees for retransmission rights,
may increase our programming expenses and diminish the amount of capacity we
have available to introduce new services, which could have an adverse effect on
our business and financial results. 

Our
inability to respond to technological developments and meet customer demand for
new products and services could limit our ability to compete
effectively. 

Our
business is characterized by rapid technological change and the introduction of
new products and services, some of which are bandwidth-intensive.  We
may not be able to fund the capital expenditures necessary to keep pace with
technological developments, or anticipate the demand of our customers for
products and services requiring new technology or bandwidth.  Our
inability to maintain and expand our upgraded systems and provide advanced
services in a timely manner, or to anticipate the demands of the marketplace,
could materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain
customers.  Consequently, our growth, financial condition and results
of operations could suffer materially. 

We depend on
third party service providers, suppliers and licensors; thus, if we are unable
to procure the necessary services, equipment, software or licenses on reasonable
terms and on a timely basis, our ability to offer services could be impaired,
and our growth, operations, business, financial results and financial condition
could be materially adversely affected.  

We depend
on third party service providers, suppliers and licensors to supply some of the
services, hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some
of our services.  We obtain these materials from a limited number of
vendors, some of which do not have a long operating history or which may not be
able to continue to supply the equipment and services we desire.  Some
of our hardware, software and operational support vendors, and service providers
represent our sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a
result of intellectual property rights, a position of some
exclusivity.  If demand exceeds these vendors  capacity or if these
vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, or are otherwise unable
to provide the equipment or services we need in a timely manner and at
reasonable prices, our ability to provide some services might be materially
adversely affected, or the need to procure or develop alternative sources of the
affected materials or services might delay our ability to serve our
customers.  These events could materially and adversely affect our
ability to retain and attract customers, and have a material negative impact on
our operations, business, financial results and financial
condition.  A limited number of vendors of key technologies can lead
to less product innovation and higher costs.  For these reasons, we
generally endeavor to establish alternative vendors for materials we consider
critical, but may not be able to establish these relationships or be able to
obtain required materials on favorable terms. 

In that
regard, we currently purchase set-top boxes from a limited number of vendors,
because each of our cable systems use one or two proprietary conditional access
security schemes, which allows us to regulate subscriber access to some
services, such as premium channels.  We believe that the proprietary
nature of these conditional access schemes makes other manufacturers reluctant
to produce set-top boxes.  Future innovation in set-top boxes may be
restricted until these issues are resolved.  In addition, we believe
that the general lack of compatibility among set-top box operating systems has
slowed the industry s development and deployment of digital set-top box
applications. 

Malicious
and abusive Internet practices could impair our high-speed Internet
services. 

Our
high-speed Internet customers utilize our network to access the Internet and, as
a consequence, we or they may become victim to common malicious and abusive
Internet activities, such as peer-to-peer file sharing, unsolicited mass
advertising (i.e.,  spam ) and dissemination of viruses, worms, and other
destructive or disruptive software.  These activities could have
adverse consequences on our network and our customers, including degradation of
service, excessive call volume to call centers, and damage to our or our
customers' equipment and data.  Significant incidents could lead to
customer dissatisfaction and, ultimately, loss of customers or revenue, in
addition to increased costs to service our customers and protect our
network.  Any significant loss of high-speed Internet customers or
revenue, or significant increase in costs of serving those customers, could
adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of
operations. 

22 

For
tax purposes, we experienced a deemed ownership change upon emergence from
Chapter 11 bankruptcy, resulting in an annual limitation on our ability to use
our existing net operating loss carryforwards.  We could experience
another deemed ownership change in the future that could further limit our
ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards. 

As of
December 31, 2009, we had approximately $6.3 billion of federal tax net
operating losses, resulting in a gross deferred tax asset of approximately $2.2
billion, expiring in the years 2014 through 2028.  These losses resulted
from the operations of Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries. In addition, as of
December 31, 2009, we had state tax net operating losses, resulting in a gross
deferred tax asset (net of federal tax benefit) of approximately $209 million,
generally expiring in years 2010 through 2028.  Due to uncertainties
in projected future taxable income, valuation allowances have been established
against the gross deferred tax assets for book accounting purposes, except for
deferred benefits available to offset certain deferred tax liabilities.
 Such tax net operating losses can accumulate and be used to offset our
future taxable income.  The consummation of the Plan generated an
 ownership change  as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the  Code ).  As a result, we are subject to an
annual limitation on the use of our net operating losses.  Further,
our net operating loss carryforwards have been reduced by the amount of the
cancellation of debt income resulting from the Plan that was allocable to
Charter.  The limitation on our ability to use our net operating
losses, in conjunction with the net operating loss expiration provisions, could
reduce our ability to use a portion of our net operating losses to offset future
taxable income which could result in us being required to make material cash tax
payments.  Our ability to make such income tax payments, if any, will
depend at such time on our liquidity or our ability to raise additional capital,
and/or on receipt of payments or distributions from Charter Holdco and its
subsidiaries. 

If we
were to experience a second ownership change in the future, our ability to use
our net operating losses could become subject to further
limitations.  In accordance with the Plan, our common stock is subject
to certain transfer restrictions contained in our amended and restated
certificate of incorporation.  These restrictions, which are designed
to minimize the likelihood of an ownership change occurring and thereby preserve
our ability to utilize our net operating losses, are not currently operative but
could become operative in the future if certain events occur and the
restrictions are imposed by Charter s board of directors.  However,
there can be no assurance that Charter s board of directors would choose to
impose these restrictions or that such restrictions, if imposed, would prevent
an ownership change from occurring. 

If
we are unable to attract new key employees, our ability to manage our business
could be adversely affected. 

Our
operational results during the recent prolonged economic downturn and our
bankruptcy have depended, and our future results will depend, upon the retention
and continued performance of our management team.  On January 22,
2010, we announced that our President and Chief Executive Officer, Neil Smit,
would resign effective February 28, 2010 and our Chief Operating Officer,
Michael J. Lovett, would assume the additional title of Interim President and
Chief Executive Officer at that time.  Our ability to hire new key
employees for management positions could be impacted adversely by the
competitive environment for management talent in the telecommunications
industry.  The loss of the services of key members of management and
the inability to hire new key employees could adversely affect our ability to
manage our business and our future operational and financial
results. 

Risks
Related to Ownership Positions of Charter s Principal Shareholders 

The
failure by Paul G. Allen to maintain a minimum voting interest in us could
trigger a change of control default under our subsidiary's credit
facilities. 

The
Charter Operating credit facilities provide that the failure by (a) Mr. Allen,
(b) his estate, spouse, immediate family members and heirs and (c) any trust,
corporation, partnership or other entity, the beneficiaries, stockholders,
partners or other owners of which consist exclusively of Mr. Allen or such other
persons referred to in (b) above or a combination thereof to maintain a 35%
direct or indirect voting interest in the applicable borrower would result in a
change of control default.  Such a default could result in the
acceleration of repayment of our and our subsidiaries' indebtedness, including
borrowings under the Charter Operating credit facilities. See   Risks Related to
Our Significant Indebtedness     All
of our outstanding debt is subject to change of control
provisions.  We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary
to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness following a change of control,
which would place us in default under the applicable debt
instruments.  

Pursuant
to the Plan, on November 30, 2009, Charter, CII and Mr. Allen entered into a
lock up agreement (the  Lock-Up Agreement ) pursuant to which Mr. Allen and any
permitted affiliate of Mr. Allen that will hold shares of new Charter Class B
common stock, from and after the Effective Date to, but not including, the
earliest to occur of  

23 

(i)
September 15, 2014, (ii) the repayment, replacement, refinancing or substantial
modification, including any waiver, to the change of control provisions of the
Charter Operating credit facility and (iii) a Change of Control (as defined in
the Lock-Up Agreement), Mr. Allen and/or any such permitted affiliate shall not
transfer or sell shares of new Charter Class B common stock received by such
person under the Plan or convert shares of new Charter Class B common stock
received by such person under the Plan into new Charter Class A common stock
except to Mr. Allen and/or such permitted affiliates. 

Mr.
Allen maintains a substantial voting interest in us and may have interests that
conflict with the interests of the holders of our notes; Charter s principal
stockholders, other than Mr. Allen, own a significant amount of Charter s common
stock, giving them influence over corporate transactions and other
matters. 

As of
December 31, 2009, Mr. Allen beneficially owned approximately 40% of the voting
power of the capital stock of Charter, and he has the right to elect four of
Charter s eleven board members.  Mr. Allen thus has the ability to
influence fundamental corporate transactions requiring equity holder approval,
including, but not limited to, the election of Charter s directors, approval of
merger transactions involving Charter and the sale of all or substantially all
of Charter s assets.  Charter s other principal stockholders have
appointed members to Charter s board of directors in accordance with the Plan,
including Messrs. Zinterhofer and Glatt, who are employees of Apollo Management,
L.P., and Mr. Karsh, who is the president of Oaktree Capital Management,
L.P.  Funds affiliated with AP Charter Holdings, L.P. beneficially
hold approximately 31% of the Class A common stock of Charter representing
approximately 20% of the vote.  Oaktree Opportunities Investments,
L.P. and certain affiliated funds beneficially hold approximately 18% of the
Class A common stock of Charter representing approximately 11% of the vote.
Funds advised by Franklin Advisers, Inc. beneficially hold approximately 19% of
the Class A common stock of Charter representing approximately 12% of the
vote.  Charter s principal stockholders may be able to exercise
substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including
the election of directors and approval of significant corporate action, such as
mergers and other business combination transactions should these stockholders
retain a significant ownership interest in us. 

Charter s
principal stockholders are not restricted from investing in, and have invested
in, and engaged in, other businesses involving or related to the operation of
cable television systems, video programming, high-speed Internet service,
telephone or business and financial transactions conducted through broadband
interactivity and Internet services.  The principal stockholders may
also engage in other businesses that compete or may in the future compete with
us. 

The
principal stockholders  substantial influence over our management and affairs
could create conflicts of interest if any of them were faced with decisions that
could have different implications for them and us. 

Risks Related to Regulatory and
Legislative Matters  

Our
business is subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation, which
could adversely affect our business. 

Regulation
of the cable industry has increased cable operators' operational and
administrative expenses and limited their revenues.  Cable operators
are subject to, among other things: 

rules
      governing the provision of cable equipment and compatibility with new
      digital technologies; 

rules
      and regulations relating to subscriber and employee
    privacy; 

limited
      rate regulation; 

rules
      governing the copyright royalties that must be paid for retransmitting
      broadcast signals; 

requirements
      governing when a cable system must carry a particular broadcast station
      and when it must first obtain consent to carry a broadcast
      station; 

requirements
      governing the provision of channel capacity to unaffiliated commercial
      leased access programmers; 

rules
      limiting our ability to enter into exclusive agreements with multiple
      dwelling unit complexes and control our inside
  wiring; 

rules,
      regulations, and regulatory policies relating to provision of voice
      communications and high-speed Internet
service; 

rules
      for franchise renewals and transfers;
and 

other
      requirements covering a variety of operational areas such as equal
      employment opportunity, technical standards, and customer service
      requirements. 

24 

Additionally,
many aspects of these regulations are currently the subject of judicial
proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals.  There are
also ongoing efforts to amend or expand the federal, state, and local regulation
of some of our cable systems, which may compound the regulatory risks we already
face, and proposals that might make it easier for our employees to
unionize.  Certain states and localities are considering new cable and
telecommunications taxes that could increase operating expenses. 

Our
cable system franchises are subject to non-renewal or termination. The failure
to renew a franchise in one or more key markets could adversely affect our
business. 

Our cable
systems generally operate pursuant to franchises, permits, and similar
authorizations issued by a state or local governmental authority controlling the
public rights-of-way.  Many franchises establish comprehensive
facilities and service requirements, as well as specific customer service
standards and monetary penalties for non-compliance.  In many cases,
franchises are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with significant
provisions set forth in the franchise agreement governing system
operations.  Franchises are generally granted for fixed terms and must
be periodically renewed.  Franchising authorities may resist granting
a renewal if either past performance or the prospective operating proposal is
considered inadequate.  Franchise authorities often demand concessions
or other commitments as a condition to renewal.  In some instances,
local franchises have not been renewed at expiration, and we have operated and
are operating under either temporary operating agreements or without a franchise
while negotiating renewal terms with the local franchising
authorities. 

The
traditional cable franchising regime is currently undergoing significant change
as a result of various federal and state actions.  Some of the new state
franchising laws do not allow us to immediately opt into statewide franchising
until (i) we have completed the term of the local franchise, in good standing,
(ii) a competitor has entered the market, or (iii) in limited instances, where
the local franchise allows the state franchise license to apply.  In many
cases, state franchising laws, and their varying application to us and new video
providers, will result in less franchise imposed requirements for our
competitors who are new entrants than for us until we are able to opt into the
applicable state franchise. 

We cannot
assure you that we will be able to comply with all significant provisions of our
franchise agreements and certain of our franchisors have from time to time
alleged that we have not complied with these
agreements.  Additionally, although historically we have renewed our
franchises without incurring significant costs, we cannot assure you that we
will be able to renew, or to renew as favorably, our franchises in the
future.  A termination of or a sustained failure to renew a franchise
in one or more key markets could adversely affect our business in the affected
geographic area. 

Our
cable system franchises are non-exclusive. Accordingly, local and state
franchising authorities can grant additional franchises and create competition
in market areas where none existed previously, resulting in overbuilds, which
could adversely affect results of operations. 

Our cable
system franchises are non-exclusive.  Consequently, local and state
franchising authorities can grant additional franchises to competitors in the
same geographic area or operate their own cable systems.  In some
cases, local government entities and municipal utilities may legally compete
with us without obtaining a franchise from the local franchising
authority.  In addition, certain telephone companies are seeking
authority to operate in communities without first obtaining a local
franchise.  As a result, competing operators may build systems in
areas in which we hold franchises. 

In a
series of recent rulemakings, the FCC adopted new rules that streamline entry
for new competitors (particularly those affiliated with telephone companies) and
reduce franchising burdens for these new entrants.  At the same time,
a substantial number of states recently have adopted new franchising
laws.  Again, these new laws were principally designed to streamline
entry for new competitors, and they often provide advantages for these new
entrants that are not immediately available to existing operators.  As
a result of these new franchising laws and regulations, we have seen an increase
in the number of competitive cable franchises or operating certificates being
issued, and we anticipate that trend to continue. 

Local
franchise authorities have the ability to impose additional regulatory
constraints on our business, which could further increase our
expenses. 

In
addition to the franchise agreement, cable authorities in some jurisdictions
have adopted cable regulatory ordinances that further regulate the operation of
cable systems.  This additional regulation increases the cost of

25 

operating
our business.  Local franchising authorities may impose new and more
restrictive requirements.  Local franchising authorities who are
certified to regulate rates in the communities where they operate generally have
the power to reduce rates and order refunds on the rates charged for basic
service and equipment. 

Further
regulation of the cable industry could cause us to delay or cancel service or
programming enhancements, or impair our ability to raise rates to cover our
increasing costs, resulting in increased losses. 

Currently,
rate regulation is strictly limited to the basic service tier and associated
equipment and installation activities.  However, the FCC and Congress
continue to be concerned that cable rate increases are exceeding
inflation.  It is possible that either the FCC or Congress will
further restrict the ability of cable system operators to implement rate
increases.  Should this occur, it would impede our ability to raise
our rates.  If we are unable to raise our rates in response to
increasing costs, our losses would increase. 

There has
been legislative and regulatory interest in requiring cable operators to offer
historically combined programming services on an   la carte basis.  It
is possible that new marketing restrictions could be adopted in the future. Such
restrictions could adversely affect our operations. 

Actions
by pole owners might subject us to significantly increased pole attachment
costs. 

Pole
attachments are cable wires that are attached to utility poles.  Cable
system attachments to public utility poles historically have been regulated at
the federal or state level, generally resulting in favorable pole attachment
rates for attachments used to provide cable service.  The FCC
previously determined that the lower cable rate was applicable to the mixed use
of a pole attachment for the provision of both cable and Internet access
services.  However, in late 2007, the FCC issued a NPRM, in which it
 tentatively concludes  that this approach should be modified.  The
change could affect the pole attachment rates we pay when we offer either data
or voice services over our broadband facility.  Any changes in the FCC
approach could result in a substantial increase in our pole attachment
costs. 

Increasing
regulation of our Internet service product adversely affect our ability to
provide new products and services. 

There has
been continued advocacy by certain Internet content providers and consumer
groups for new federal laws or regulations to adopt so-called  net neutrality 
principles limiting the ability of broadband network owners (like us) to manage
and control their own networks.  In August 2005, the FCC issued a
nonbinding policy statement identifying four principles to guide its
policymaking regarding high-speed Internet and related
services.  These principles provide that consumers are entitled
to:  (i) access lawful Internet content of their choice; (ii) run
applications and services of their choice, subject to the needs of law
enforcement; (iii) connect their choice of legal devices that do not harm the
network; and (iv) enjoy competition among network providers, application and
service providers, and content providers.  In August 2008, the FCC
issued an order concerning one Internet network management practice in use by
another cable operator, effectively treating the four principles as rules and
ordering a change in network management practices.  This decision is
on appeal.  In October 2009, the FCC released a NPRM seeking additional
comment on draft rules to codify these principles and to consider further
network neutrality requirements.  This Rulemaking and additional proposals
for new legislation could impose additional obligations on high-speed Internet
providers.   Any such rules or statutes could limit our ability to
manage our cable systems (including use for other services), to obtain value for
use of our cable systems and respond to competitive
competitions.  

Changes
in channel carriage regulations could impose significant additional costs on
us. 

Cable
operators also face significant regulation of their channel
carriage.  We can be required to devote substantial capacity to the
carriage of programming that we might not carry voluntarily, including certain
local broadcast signals; local public, educational and government access ( PEG )
programming; and unaffiliated, commercial leased access programming (required
channel capacity for use by persons unaffiliated with the cable operator who
desire to distribute programming over a cable system).  The FCC
adopted a plan in 2007 addressing the cable industry s broadcast carriage
obligations once the broadcast industry migration from analog to digital
transmission is completed, which occurred in June 2009.  Under the
FCC s plan, most cable systems are required to offer both an analog and digital
version of local broadcast signals for three years after the June 12, 2009
digital transition date.  This burden could increase further if we are
required to carry multiple programming streams included within a single digital
broadcast transmission (multicast carriage) or if our broadcast carriage
obligations are otherwise expanded.  The FCC also adopted new
commercial leased access rules which dramatically reduce the rate we can charge
for leasing this capacity and dramatically increase our associated
administrative burdens.  These regulatory  

26 

changes
could disrupt existing programming commitments, interfere with our preferred use
of limited channel capacity, and limit our ability to offer services that would
maximize our revenue potential.  It is possible that other legal
restraints will be adopted limiting our discretion over programming
decisions. 

Offering
voice communications service may subject us to additional regulatory burdens,
causing us to incur additional costs. 

We offer
voice communications services over our broadband network and continue to develop
and deploy VoIP services.  The FCC has declared that certain VoIP
services are not subject to traditional state public utility
regulation.  The full extent of the FCC preemption of state and local
regulation of VoIP services is not yet clear. Expanding our offering of these
services may require us to obtain certain authorizations, including federal and
state licenses.  We may not be able to obtain such authorizations in a
timely manner, or conditions could be imposed upon such licenses or
authorizations that may not be favorable to us.  The FCC has extended
certain traditional telecommunications requirements, such as E911, Universal
Service fund collection, CALEA, Customer Proprietary Network Information and
telephone relay requirements to many VoIP providers such as
us.  Telecommunications companies generally are subject to other
significant regulation which could also be extended to VoIP
providers.  If additional telecommunications regulations are applied
to our VoIP service, it could cause us to incur additional costs. 

Item
1B.  Unresolved Staff
Comments . 

None. 

Item 2.    Properties.  

Our
principal physical assets consist of cable distribution plant and equipment,
including signal receiving, encoding and decoding devices, headend reception
facilities, distribution systems, and customer premise equipment for each of our
cable systems. 

Our cable
plant and related equipment are generally attached to utility poles under pole
rental agreements with local public utilities and telephone companies, and in
certain locations are buried in underground ducts or trenches.  We own
or lease real property for signal reception sites, and own most of our service
vehicles. 

Our
subsidiaries generally lease space for business offices throughout our operating
divisions. Our headend and tower locations are located on owned or leased
parcels of land, and we generally own the towers on which our equipment is
located.  Charter Holdco owns the land and building for our principal
executive office. 

The
physical components of our cable systems require maintenance as well as periodic
upgrades to support the new services and products we introduce.  See
 Item 1. Business   Our Network Technology.   We believe that our
properties are generally in good operating condition and are suitable for our
business operations. 

Item 3.    Legal
Proceedings.  

Patent
Litigation  

Ronald A. Katz Technology Licensing,
L.P. v. Charter Communications, Inc. et. al .  On September 5,
2006, Ronald A. Katz Technology Licensing, L.P. served a lawsuit on Charter and
a group of other companies in the U. S. District Court for the District of
Delaware alleging that Charter and the other defendants have infringed its
interactive telephone patents.  Charter denied the allegations raised
in the complaint.  On March 20, 2007, the Judicial Panel on
Multi-District Litigation transferred this case, along with 24 others, to the
U.S. District Court for the Central District of California for coordinated and
consolidated pretrial proceedings.  Charter is vigorously contesting
this matter. 

Rembrandt Patent
Litigation.   On June 6, 2006, Rembrandt Technologies, LP sued
Charter and several other cable companies in the U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of Texas, alleging that each defendant's high-speed data
  service
infringes three patents owned by Rembrandt and that Charter's receipt and
retransmission of ATSC digital terrestrial broadcast signals infringes a fourth
patent owned by Rembrandt  (Rembrandt I).   On
November 30, 2006, Rembrandt Technologies, LP again filed suit against Charter
and another cable company in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
Texas, alleging patent infringement of an additional five patents allegedly
related to high-speed Internet over cable  (Rembrandt
II).   Charter has denied all of Rembrandt s allegations. On
June 18, 2007, the  Rembrandt
I  and  Rembrandt 
 II  cases were combined
in a multi-district litigation proceeding in the U.S. District  

27 

Court for
the District of Delaware. On November 21, 2007, certain vendors of the equipment
that is the subject of  Rembrandt I  and  Rembrandt II  cases filed an
action against Rembrandt in U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware
seeking a declaration of non-infringement and invalidity on all but one of the
patents at issue in those cases.  On January 16, 2008 Rembrandt filed an
answer in that case and a third party counterclaim against Charter and the other
MSOs for infringement of all but one of the patents already at issue in  Rembrandt I  and  Rembrandt II cases .  On
February 7, 2008, Charter filed an answer to Rembrandt s counterclaims and added
a counter-counterclaim against Rembrandt for a declaration of non-infringement
on the remaining patent.  On October 28, 2009, Rembrandt filed a
Supplemental Covenant Not to Sue promising not to sue Charter and the other
defendants on eight of the contested patents.  One patent remains in
litigation, and Charter is vigorously contesting Rembrandt's claims regarding
it.  

Verizon Patent Litigation.  On
February 5, 2008, four Verizon entities sued Charter and two other Charter
subsidiaries in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas,
alleging that the provision of telephone service by Charter infringes eight
patents owned by the Verizon entities  (Verizon I).   On
December 31, 2008, forty-four Charter entities filed a complaint in the U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia alleging that Verizon and
two of its subsidiaries infringe four patents related to television transmission
technology   (Verizon
II).   On February 6, 2009, Verizon responded to the complaint by
denying Charter s allegations, asserting counterclaims for non-infringement and
invalidity of Charter s patents and asserting counterclaims against Charter for
infringement of eight patents.  On January 15, 2009, Charter filed a
complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
seeking a declaration of non-infringement on two patents owned by
Verizon  (Verizon
III).   Charter is vigorously contesting the allegations made against
it in  Verizon I  and
 Verizon II , and is
forcefully prosecuting its claims in  Verizon II  and  Verizon III . 

We are
also a defendant or co-defendant in several other unrelated lawsuits claiming
infringement of various patents relating to various aspects of our
businesses.  Other industry participants are also defendants in
certain of these cases, and, in many cases including those described above, we
expect that any potential liability would be the responsibility of our equipment
vendors pursuant to applicable contractual indemnification
provisions. 

In the
event that a court ultimately determines that we or our parent companies
infringe on any intellectual property rights, we may be subject to substantial
damages and/or an injunction that could require us or our vendors to modify
certain products and services we offer to our subscribers, as well as negotiate
royalty or license agreements with respect to the patents at issue.  While
we believe the lawsuits are without merit and intend to defend the actions
vigorously, all of these patent lawsuits could be material to our consolidated
results of operations of any one period, and no assurance can be given that any
adverse outcome would not be material to our consolidated financial condition,
results of operations, or liquidity. 

Employment
Litigation  

On August
28, 2008, a lawsuit was filed against Charter and Charter Communications, LLC
( Charter LLC ) in the United States District Court for the Western District of
Wisconsin (now entitled,  Marc
Goodell et al.  v. Charter Communications, LLC and Charter
Communications, Inc. ).  The plaintiffs seek to represent a class of
current and former broadband, system and other types of technicians who are or
were employed by Charter or Charter LLC in the states of Michigan, Minnesota,
Missouri or California.  Plaintiffs allege that Charter and Charter
LLC violated certain wage and hour statutes of those four states by failing to
pay technicians for all hours worked.   Charter and Charter LLC
continue to deny all liability, believe that they have substantial defenses, and
are vigorously contesting the claims asserted.  We have been
subjected, in the normal course of business, to the assertion of other wage and
hour claims and could be subjected to additional such claims in the
future.  We cannot predict the outcome of any such
claims. 

Bankruptcy
Proceedings  

On March
27, 2009, Charter filed its chapter 11 Petition in the United States Bankruptcy
Court for the Southern District of New York.  On the same day,
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., ( JPMorgan ), for itself and as Administrative Agent
under the Charter Operating Credit Agreement, filed an adversary proceeding (the
 JPMorgan Adversary Proceeding ) in Bankruptcy Court against Charter Operating
and CCO Holdings seeking a declaration that there have been events of default
under the Charter Operating Credit Agreement.  JPMorgan, as well as
other parties, objected to the Plan.  The Bankruptcy Court jointly
held 19 days of trial in the JPMorgan Adversary Proceeding and on the objections
to the Plan. 

28 

On
November 17, 2009, the Bankruptcy Court issued its Order and Opinion confirming
the Plan over the objections of JPMorgan and various other
objectors.  The Court also entered an order ruling in favor of Charter
in the JPMorgan Adversary Proceeding.  Several objectors attempted to
stay the consummation of the Plan, but those motions were denied by the
Bankruptcy Court and the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York.  Charter consummated the Plan on November 30, 2009 and
reinstated the Charter Operating Credit Agreement and certain other debt of its
subsidiaries. 

Five
appeals have been filed relating to confirmation of the Plan.  The
parties pursuing appeals are: JPMorgan; Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. ( Wells Fargo )
(in its capacities as successor Administrative Agent and successor Collateral
Agent for the third lien prepetition secured lenders to CCO Holdings under the
CCO Holdings credit facility); Law Debenture Trust Company of New York ( Law
Debenture Trust ) (as the Trustee with respect to the $479 million in aggregate
principal amount of 6.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2027 issued by Charter
Communications, Inc. which are no longer outstanding following consummation of
the Plan); R2 Investments, LDC ( R2 Investments ) (an equity interest holder in
Charter Communications, Inc.); and three plaintiffs representing a putative
class in a securities action against three Charter officers or directors
presently pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of Arkansas (Iron Workers Local No. 25 Pension Fund, Indiana Laborers Pension
Fund, and Iron Workers District Council of Western New York and Vicinity Pension
Fund, in the action styled  Iron Workers Local No. 25 Pension
Fund v. Allen, et al. , Case No. 4:09-cv-00405-JLH (E.D.
Ark.).  Briefing in four of the appeals (JPMorgan, Wells Fargo, Law
Debenture Trust, and R2 Investments) is scheduled to commence on March 24,
2010.   No schedule has been set in the other
appeal.  We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the
appeals. 

Other
Proceedings  

In March
2009, Gerald Paul Bodet, Jr. filed a putative class action against Charter and
Charter Holdco ( Gerald Paul
Bodet, Jr. v. Charter Communications, Inc. and Charter Communications Holding
Company, LLC ) in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
Louisiana.  In January 2010, plaintiff filed a Second Amended
Complaint which also named Charter Communications, LLC as a
defendant.  In the Second Amended Complaint, plaintiff alleges that
the defendants violated the Sherman Act, the Communications Act of 1934, and the
Louisiana Unfair Trade Practices Act by forcing subscribers to rent a set top
box in order to subscribe to cable video services which are not available to
subscribers by simply plugging a cable into a cable-ready
television.  Defendants  response to the Second Amended Complaint is
currently due on April 2, 2010.  In June 2009, Derrick Lebryk and
Nichols Gladson filed a putative class action against Charter, Charter
Communications Holding Company, LLC, CCHC, LLC and Charter Communications
Holding, LLC   ( Derrick Lebryk and Nicholas Gladson
v. Charter Communications, Inc., Charter Communications Holding Company, LLC,
CCHC, LLC and Charter Communications Holding, LLC)  in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of Illinois.  The plaintiffs allege
that the defendants violated the Sherman Act based on similar allegations as
those alleged in  Bodet v.
Charter, et al.   We understand similar claims have been made
against other MSOs.  The Charter defendants deny any liability and
plan to vigorously contest these cases. 

We are
also aware of three suits filed by holders of securities issued by us or our
subsidiaries.   Key
Colony Fund, LP. v. Charter Communications, Inc. and Paul W. Allen  (sic),
was filed in February 2009 in the Circuit Court of Pulaski County, Arkansas and
asserts violations of the Arkansas Deceptive Trade Practices Act and fraud
claims.  Key Colony alleges that it purchased certain senior notes
based on representations of Charter and agents and representatives of Paul Allen
as part of a scheme to defraud certain Charter noteholders.   Clifford James Smith v. Charter
Communications, Inc. and Paul Allen , was filed in May 2009 in the United
States District Court for the Central District of California.  Mr.
Smith alleges that he purchased Charter common stock based on statements by
Charter and Mr. Allen and that Charter s bankruptcy filing was not
necessary.    The
defendants  response to the Complaint was given in February
2010 .    Herb Lair, Iron Workers Local No. 25
Pension Fund et al. v. Neil Smit, Eloise Schmitz, and Paul G. Allen
 (  Iron Workers Local
No. 25  ), was filed in June 2009 in the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of Arkansas on June 1, 2009.  Mr. Smit and Ms.
Schmitz are the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
respectively, of Charter.  The plaintiffs, who seek to represent a
class of plaintiffs who acquired Charter stock between October 23, 2006 and
February 12, 2009, allege that they and others similarly situated were misled by
statements by Ms. Schmitz, Mr. Smit, Mr. Allen and/or in Charter SEC
filings.  The plaintiffs assert violations of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934.  In February 2010, the United States Bankruptcy Court for
the Southern District of New York held that these plaintiffs  causes of action
were released by the Third Party Release and Injunction under Charter s Plan of
Reorganization.  Charter denies the allegations made by the plaintiffs
in these matters, believes all of the claims asserted in these cases were
released through the Plan and intends to seek dismissal of these cases and
otherwise vigorously contest these cases. 

29 

We also
are party to other lawsuits and claims that arise in the ordinary course of
conducting our business.  The ultimate outcome of these other legal matters
pending against us or our subsidiaries cannot be predicted, and although such
lawsuits and claims are not expected individually to have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or
liquidity, such lawsuits could have in the aggregate a material adverse effect
on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or
liquidity.  Whether or not we ultimately prevail in any particular
lawsuit or claim, litigation can be time consuming and costly and injure our
reputation. 

Item 4.    Submission of
Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.  

No
matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter
of the year ended December 31, 2009. 

30 

PART II  

Item 5.    Market for
Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities.  

(A)  

Market
      Information  

Charter s
Class A common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol
 CCMM.   The stock began being quoted on the Bulletin Board in
December 2009 following our emergence from Chapter 11
proceedings. 

Prior to
April 6, 2009, Predecessor common stock traded on the NASDAQ Global Select
Market. From April 7, 2009 through the Effective Date, shares of common stock of
Predecessor traded on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the  Pink Sheets.  On
the Effective Date, all of the outstanding common stock and all other
outstanding equity securities of Predecessor were cancelled pursuant to the
terms of the Plan. 

Charter
has applied to NASDAQ to list the Class A common stock.  The requirements
for listing securities on an exchange for an issuer currently subject to the
reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
include that Charter s Audit Committee of the board of directors consist of not
less than three independent members.  Charter s Audit Committee currently
has two independent members.  Charter has one vacancy on its board of
directors and is assessing individuals to fill that position who would also be a
member of the Audit Committee.  When the vacancy is filled, Charter
believes that it will be in a position to complete the listing of its shares of
Class A common stock on NASDAQ.  

The
following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the range of high and low
last reported sale price per share of Predecessor s Class A common stock through
April 6, 2009, and from April 7 through November 30, 2009, the range of high and
low last reported bid price per share, and Charter s Class A common stock after
its emergence from bankruptcy from December 1, 2009 to December 31, 2009 on the
OTC Bulletin Board or in the  Pink Sheets.   There is no
established trading market for Charter s Class B common
stock. 

Class A Common
Stock   

(B)  

Holders  

As of
December 31, 2009, there were approximately 170 holders of record, of Charter s
Class A common stock and one holder of record of Charter s Class B common
stock. 

(C)  

Dividends  

Predecessor
and Charter have not paid stock or cash dividends on any of its common
stock. 

Charter
would be dependent on distributions from Charter Holdco if Charter were to make
any dividends. Charter Holdco may make pro rata distributions to all holders of
its common membership units, including Charter.  

31 

Covenants in
the indentures and credit agreements governing the debt obligations of CCH II
and its subsidiaries restrict their ability to make distributions to us, and
accordingly, limit our ability to declare or pay cash dividends. See  Item 7.
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.  Accordingly, we do not anticipate any cash dividends will be paid
on our common stock in the near future. Future cash dividends, if any, will be
at the discretion of Charter s board of directors and will depend upon, among
other things, our future operations and earnings, capital requirements, general
financial condition, contractual restrictions and such other factors as
Charter s board of directors may deem relevant.

(D)          
Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans 

All
shares issued or granted by Predecessor and not yet vested were cancelled on
November 30, 2009 along with the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan.  The 2009
Stock Incentive Plan was adopted by Charter s board of directors.  See
Exhibit 10.18 for the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan. 

The
following information is provided as of December 31, 2009 with respect to equity
compensation plans: 

Number
      of Securities 

Number
      of Securities 

to
      be Issued Upon 

Weighted
      Average 

Remaining
      Available 

Exercise
      of Outstanding 

Exercise
      Price of 

for
      Future Issuance 

Options,
      Warrants 

Outstanding
      Options, 

Under
      Equity 

Plan
      Category 

and
      Rights 

Warrants
      and Rights 

Compensation
      Plans 

Equity
      compensation plans approved 

                     by
      security holders 

-- 

$                        -- 

-- 

Equity
      compensation plans not 

                     approved
      by security holders 

-- 

(1) 

$                        -- 

5,776,560
      (1) 

TOTAL 

-- 

(1) 

$                        -- 

5,776,560
      (1) 

(1) 

This
      total does not include 1,920,226 shares issued pursuant to restricted
      stock grants made under our 2009 Stock Incentive Plan, which are subject
      to vesting based on continued
employment. 

For information regarding securities
issued under our equity compensation plans, see Note 20 to our accompanying
consolidated financial statements contained in  Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.   

(E)  Performance
Graph 

As of
December 31, 2009, Charter had no class of common stock registered under Section
12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

(F) Recent Sales of Unregistered
Securities  

During
2009, there were no unregistered sales of securities of the registrant other
than those previously reported on a Registration Statement on Form S-1,
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Current Report on Form 8-K. 

32 

Item 6.    Selected
Financial Data  .  

The
following table presents selected consolidated financial data for the periods
indicated (dollars in millions, except share data): 

(a) 

Years
      ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 have been restated to reflect the
      retrospective application of accounting guidance for convertible debt with
      cash settlement features.  2005 has not been restated and
      therefore is not comparable.  See Note 26 to the accompanying
      consolidated financial statements contained in  Item 8. Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data.  

(b)   

In
      2006, we sold certain cable television systems in West Virginia and
      Virginia to Cebridge Connections, Inc.  We determined the West
      Virginia and Virginia cable systems comprise operations and cash flows
      that for financial reporting purposes met the criteria for discontinued
      operations.  Accordingly, the results of operations for the West
      Virginia and Virginia cable systems have been presented as discontinued
      operations, net of tax, for the year ended December 31, 2006 and all prior
      periods presented herein have been reclassified to conform to the current
      presentation. 

(c)   

Temporary
      equity represents nonvested shares of restricted stock and performance
      shares issued to employees and, prior to November 30, 2009, Mr. Allen s
      previous 5.6% preferred membership interests in our indirect subsidiary,
      CC VIII. Mr. Allen s CC VIII interest was classified as temporary equity
      as a result of Mr. Allen s previous ability to put his interest to the
      Company upon a change in control. Mr. Allen has subsequently
      transferred his CC VIII interest to Charter pursuant to the Plan. See
      Note 11 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements
      contained in  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 
      Reported losses allocated to noncontrolling interest on the statement of
      operations were limited to the extent of any remaining noncontrolling
      interest on the balance sheet related to Charter
      Holdco.  Because noncontrolling interest in Charter Holdco was
      substantially eliminated at December 31, 2003, beginning in 2004, Charter
      began to absorb substantially all losses before income taxes that
      otherwise would have been allocated to noncontrolling
      interest.  On January 1, 2009, Charter adopted new accounting
      guidance which requires losses to be allocated to noncontrolling interests
      even when such amounts are
deficits. 

33 

Comparability
of the above information from year to year is affected by acquisitions and
dispositions completed by us. 

Item 7.    Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.  

Reference
is made to  Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors  and  Cautionary Statement Regarding
Forward-Looking Statements,  which describe important factors that could cause
actual results to differ from expectations and non-historical information
contained herein.  In addition, the following discussion should be
read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and
accompanying notes thereto of Charter Communications, Inc. and subsidiaries
included  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.   

Emergence
from Reorganization Proceedings and Related Events 

On March
27, 2009, the Debtors filed voluntary petitions in the Bankruptcy Court seeking
relief under the Bankruptcy Code.  On November 17, 2009, the
Bankruptcy Court entered the Confirmation Order confirming our Plan and, on the
Effective Date, the Plan was consummated and we emerged from
bankruptcy. 

Upon our
emergence from bankruptcy, we adopted fresh start accounting. In accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ), the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations and cash flows contained in
 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  present the results
of operations and the sources and uses of cash for (i) the eleven months
ended November 30, 2009 of the Predecessor and (ii) the one month ended
December 31, 2009 of the Successor. However, for purposes of management s
discussion and analysis of the results of operations and the sources and uses of
cash in this Form 10-K, we have combined the current year results of operations
for the Predecessor and the Successor. The results of operations of the
Predecessor and Successor are not comparable due to the change in basis
resulting from the emergence from bankruptcy. This combined presentation is
being made solely to explain the changes in results of operations for the
periods presented in the financial statements. We also compare the combined
results of operations and the sources and uses of cash for the twelve months
ended December 31, 2009 with the corresponding period in the prior
years. 

We
believe the combined results of operations for the twelve months ended
December 31, 2009 provide management and investors with a more meaningful
perspective on our ongoing financial and operational performance and trends than
if we did not combine the results of operations of the Predecessor and the
Successor in this manner. 

Overview 

We are a
broadband communications company operating in the United States with
approximately 5.3 million customers at December 31, 2009.  We offer
our customers traditional cable video programming (basic and digital, which we
refer to as "video" service), high-speed Internet access, and telephone
services, as well as advanced broadband services (such as OnDemand, high
definition television service and DVR).  See "Part I. Item 1. Business
  Products and Services" for further description of these services, including
"customers." 

Approximately
88% and 86% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively, are attributable to monthly subscription fees charged to customers
for our video, high-speed Internet, telephone, and commercial services provided
by our cable systems.  Generally, these customer subscriptions may be
discontinued by the customer at any time.  The remaining 12% and 14%
of revenue for fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively, is derived primarily
from advertising revenues, franchise fee revenues (which are collected by us but
then paid to local franchising authorities), pay-per-view and OnDemand
programming, installation or reconnection fees charged to customers to commence
or reinstate service, and commissions related to the sale of merchandise by home
shopping services. 

We
believe that the weakened economic conditions in the United States, including a
continued downturn in the housing market over the past year and increases in
unemployment, and continued competition have adversely affected consumer demand
for our services, especially premium services, and have contributed to an
increase in the number of homes that replace their traditional telephone service
with wireless service thereby impacting the growth of our telephone business and
also had a negative impact on our advertising revenue.  These conditions
have affected our net customer additions and revenue growth during 2009. 
If these conditions do not improve, we believe the growth of our business and
results of operations will be further adversely affected which may contribute to
future impairments of our franchises and goodwill. 

34 

Our most
significant competitors are DBS providers and certain telephone companies that
offer services that provide features and functions similar to our video,
high-speed Internet, and telephone services, including in some cases wireless
services and they also offer these services in bundles similar to ours. 
See  Business   Competition.   In the recent past, we have grown revenues
by offsetting video customer losses with price increases and sales of
incremental services such as high-speed Internet, OnDemand, DVR, high definition
television, and telephone.  We expect to continue to grow revenues in this
manner and in addition, we expect to increase revenues by expanding the sales of
our services to our commercial customers.  However, we do not expect that
we will be able to grow revenues at recent historical rates.  

Our
expenses primarily consist of operating costs, selling, general and
administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization expense, impairment of
franchise intangibles and interest expense.  Operating costs primarily
include programming costs, the cost of our workforce, cable service related
expenses, advertising sales costs and franchise fees.  Selling,
general and administrative expenses primarily include salaries and benefits,
rent expense, billing costs, call center costs, internal network costs, bad debt
expense, and property taxes.  We control our costs of operations by
maintaining strict controls on expenditures.  More specifically, we
are focused on managing our cost structure by improving workforce productivity,
and leveraging our scale, and increasing the effectiveness of our purchasing
activities. 

For the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, Adjusted earnings (loss) before
interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization ( Adjusted
EBITDA ) was $2.5 billion, $2.3 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively. 
See   Use of Adjusted EBITDA  for further information on Adjusted EBITDA. 
The increase in Adjusted EBITDA is principally due to increased sales of our
bundled services and improved cost efficiencies.  For the years ended
December 31, 2009 and 2008, our loss from operations was $979 million and $614
million, respectively.  The increase in the loss from operations for the
year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 is
a result of the increase in the impairment of franchises from $1.5 billion in
2008 to $2.2 billion in 2009 offset by increases in Adjusted EBITDA as discussed
above and favorable litigation settlements in 2009.   Income from
operations was $548 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 which was not
as significantly impacted by impairment of franchises.  

We have a
history of net losses.  Our net losses were principally attributable to
insufficient revenue to cover the combination of operating expenses and interest
expenses we incurred because of our debt, impairment of franchises and
depreciation expenses resulting from the capital investments we have made and
continue to make in our cable properties.   The Plan resulted in
the reduction of the principal amount of our debt by approximately $8 billion,
reducing our interest expense by approximately $830 million
annually. 

Beginning
in 2004 and continuing through 2009, we sold several cable systems to divest
geographically non-strategic assets and allow for more efficient operations,
while also reducing debt and increasing our liquidity.  In 2007, 2008,
and 2009, we closed the sale of certain cable systems representing a total of
approximately 85,100, 14,100, and 13,200 video customers,
respectively.  As a result of these sales we have improved our
geographic footprint by reducing our number of headends, increasing the number
of customers per headend, and reducing the number of states in which the
majority of our customers reside.  We also made certain geographically
strategic acquisitions in 2007 and 2009, adding 25,500 and 1,900 video
customers, respectively. 

Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates  

Certain
of our accounting policies require our management to make difficult, subjective
or complex judgments. Management has discussed these policies with the Audit
Committee of Charter s board of directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed
the following disclosure.  We consider the following policies to be
the most critical in understanding the estimates, assumptions and judgments that
are involved in preparing our financial statements, and the uncertainties that
could affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash
flows: 

Property,
      plant and equipment 

capitalization
      of labor and overhead costs 

Impairment 

Valuation
      for fresh start accounting 

Useful
      lives of property, plant and
equipment 

35 

Intangible
      assets 

Impairment
      of franchises  

Valuation
      for fresh start accounting 

Sensitivity 

Income
      Taxes 

Litigation 

In
addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require
estimates or judgment that are not deemed critical, such as the allowance for
doubtful accounts and valuations of our derivative instruments, if any, but
changes in estimates or judgment in these other items could also have a material
impact on our financial statements. 

Property,
plant and equipment 

The cable
industry is capital intensive, and a large portion of our resources are spent on
capital activities associated with extending, rebuilding, and upgrading our
cable network.  As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the net
carrying amount of our property, plant and equipment (consisting primarily of
cable network assets) was approximately $6.8 billion (representing 41% of total
assets) and $5.0 billion (representing 36% of total assets),
respectively.  Total capital expenditures for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 were approximately $1.1 billion, $1.2
billion, and $1.2 billion, respectively.  Effective December 1, 2009,
we applied fresh start accounting, which requires assets and liabilities to be
reflected at fair value.   Upon
application of fresh start accounting, we adjusted our property, plant and
equipment to reflect fair value.  These fresh start adjustments
resulted in a $2.0 billion increase to total property, plant and
equipment. 

Capitalization of
labor and overhead costs.   Costs associated with network
construction, initial customer installations (including initial installations of
new or  additional advanced services), installation refurbishments,
and the addition of network equipment necessary to provide new or advanced
services, are capitalized.  While our capitalization is based on
specific activities, once capitalized, we track these costs by fixed asset
category at the cable system level, and not on a specific asset
basis.  For assets that are sold or retired, we remove the estimated
applicable cost and accumulated depreciation.  Costs capitalized as
part of initial customer installations include materials, direct labor, and
certain indirect costs.  These indirect costs are associated with the
activities of personnel who assist in connecting and activating the new service,
and consist of compensation and overhead costs associated with these support
functions.  The costs of disconnecting service at a customer s
dwelling or reconnecting service to a previously installed dwelling are charged
to operating expense in the period incurred.  As our service offerings
mature and our reconnect activity increases, our capitalizable installations
will continue to decrease and therefore our service expenses will
increase.  Costs for repairs and maintenance are charged to operating
expense as incurred, while equipment replacement, including replacement of
certain components, and betterments, including replacement of cable drops from
the pole to the dwelling, are capitalized. 

We make
judgments regarding the installation and construction activities to be
capitalized.  We capitalize direct labor and overhead using standards
developed from actual costs and applicable operational data.  We
calculate standards annually (or more frequently if circumstances dictate) for
items such as the labor rates, overhead rates, and the actual amount of time
required to perform a capitalizable activity.  For example, the
standard amounts of time required to perform capitalizable activities are based
on studies of the time required to perform such activities.  Overhead
rates are established based on an analysis of the nature of costs incurred in
support of capitalizable activities, and a determination of the portion of costs
that is directly attributable to capitalizable activities.  The impact
of changes that resulted from these studies were not material in the periods
presented. 

Labor
costs directly associated with capital projects are
capitalized.  Capitalizable activities performed in connection with
customer installations include such activities as: 

Dispatching
      a  truck roll  to the customer s dwelling for service
      connection; 

Verification
      of serviceability to the customer s dwelling (i.e., determining whether
      the customer s dwelling is capable of receiving service by our cable
      network and/or receiving advanced or Internet
  services); 

Customer
      premise activities performed by in-house field technicians and third-party
      contractors in connection with customer installations, installation of
      network equipment in connection with the installation of expanded
      services, and equipment replacement and betterment;
  and 

Verifying
      the integrity of the customer s network connection by initiating test
      signals downstream from the headend to the customer s digital set-top
      box. 

36 

Judgment
is required to determine the extent to which overhead costs incurred result from
specific capital activities, and therefore should be capitalized.  The
primary costs that are included in the determination of the overhead rate are
(i) employee benefits and payroll taxes associated with capitalized direct
labor, (ii) direct variable costs associated with capitalizable activities,
consisting primarily of installation and construction vehicle costs,
(iii) the cost of support personnel, such as dispatchers, who directly
assist with capitalizable installation activities, and (iv) indirect costs
directly attributable to capitalizable activities. 

While we
believe our existing capitalization policies are appropriate, a significant
change in the nature or extent of our system activities could affect
management s judgment about the extent to which we should capitalize direct
labor or overhead in the future.  We monitor the appropriateness of
our capitalization policies, and perform updates to our internal studies on an
ongoing basis to determine whether facts or circumstances warrant a change to
our capitalization policies.  We capitalized internal direct labor and
overhead of $199 million, $199 million, and $194 million, respectively, for the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. 

Impairment.   We
evaluate the recoverability of our property, plant and equipment upon the
occurrence of events or changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying
amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  Such events or changes in
circumstances could include such factors as the impairment of our
indefinite-life franchises, changes in technological advances, fluctuations in
the fair value of such assets, adverse changes in relationships with local
franchise authorities, adverse changes in market conditions, or a deterioration
of current or expected future operating results.  A long-lived asset
is deemed impaired when the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the projected
undiscounted future cash flows associated with the asset.  No
impairments of long-lived assets to be held and used were recorded in the years
ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.  However, approximately $56
million of impairment on assets held for sale were recorded for the year ended
December 31, 2007. 

Fresh start
accounting.   As discussed above, effective December 1, 2009, we
applied fresh start accounting resulting in an approximately $2.0 billion
increase to total property, plant and equipment.  The cost approach
was the primary method used to establish fair value for our property, plant and
equipment in connection with the application of fresh start accounting. 
The cost approach considers the amount required to replace an asset by
constructing or purchasing a new asset with similar utility, then adjusts the
value in consideration of all forms of depreciation as of the appraisal date as
follows. 

Physical
      depreciation   the loss in value or usefulness attributable solely to use
      of the asset and physical causes such as wear and tear and exposure to the
      elements. 

Functional
      obsolescence   a loss in value is due to factors inherent in the asset
      itself and due to changes in technology, design or process resulting in
      inadequacy, overcapacity, lack of functional utility or excess operating
      costs. 

Economic
      obsolescence   loss in value by unfavorable external conditions such as
      economics of the industry or geographic area, or change in
      ordinances. 

The cost
approach relies on management s assumptions regarding current material and labor
costs required to rebuild and repurchase significant components of our property,
plant and equipment along with assumptions regarding the age and estimated
useful lives of our property, plan and equipment.  For illustrative
purposes only, the impact of a one-year change in our estimated remaining useful
life (holding all other assumptions unchanged) to the fair value of our
property, plant and equipment would be approximately $800 million. 

Useful lives of
property, plant and equipment.   We evaluate the appropriateness
of estimated useful lives assigned to our property, plant and equipment, based
on annual analyses of such useful lives, and revise such lives to the extent
warranted by changing facts and circumstances.  Any changes in
estimated useful lives as a result of these analyses are reflected prospectively
beginning in the period in which the study is completed.  In
connection with the application of fresh start accounting as of December 1,
2009, management made assumptions regarding remaining useful lives of our
existing property, plant and equipment and evaluated the appropriateness of
useful lives to be applied to future additions of property, plant and
equipment.  The effect of a one-year decrease in the weighted average
remaining useful life of our property, plant and equipment as of December 31,
2009 would be an increase in annual depreciation expense of approximately $196
million.  The effect of a one-year increase in the weighted average
remaining useful life of our property, plant and equipment as of December 31,
2009 would be a decrease in annual depreciation expense of approximately $222
million. 

37 

Depreciation
expense related to property, plant and equipment totaled $1.3 billion for each
of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, representing approximately
17%, 18%, and 24% of costs and expenses, respectively.  Depreciation
is recorded using the straight-line composite method over management s estimate
of the useful lives of the related assets as listed below: 

Cable
      distribution systems 

7-20
      years 

Customer
      equipment and installations 

4-8
      years 

Vehicles
      and equipment 

1-6
      years 

Buildings
      and leasehold improvements 

15-40
      years 

Furniture,
      fixtures and equipment 

6-10
      years 

Intangible
assets 

We have
recorded a significant amount of cost related to franchises, pursuant to which
we are granted the right to operate our cable distribution network throughout
our service areas.  The net carrying value of franchises as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008 was approximately $5.3 billion (representing 32%
of total assets) and $7.4 billion (representing 53% of total assets),
respectively.  Effective December 1, 2009, we applied fresh start
accounting and as such adjusted our franchises, customer relationships and
goodwill to reflect fair value and also established any previously unrecorded
intangible assets, such as trademarks, at their fair values.  As such,
the value of customer relationships and goodwill increased to $2.3 billion
(representing 14% of total assets) and $951 million (representing 6% of total
assets) at December 31, 2009, respectively.  The net carrying amount
of customer relationships and goodwill was $9 million and $68 million,
respectively, as of December 31, 2008.  In addition, we recorded
trademarks of $158 million. 

Impairment of
franchises.   Franchise intangible assets that meet specified
indefinite-life criteria must be tested for impairment annually, or more
frequently as warranted by events or changes in circumstances.  In
determining whether our franchises have an indefinite-life, we considered the
likelihood of franchise renewals, the expected costs of franchise renewals, and
the technological state of the associated cable systems, with a view to whether
or not we are in compliance with any technology upgrading requirements specified
in a franchise agreement.  We have concluded that as of December 31,
2009 and 2008 substantially all of our franchises qualify for indefinite-life
treatment. 

Costs
associated with franchise renewals are amortized on a straight-line basis over
10 years, which represents management s best estimate of the average term of the
franchises.  Franchise amortization expense for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was approximately $2 million, $2 million, and
$3 million, respectively.  Other intangible assets amortization
expense, including customer relationships, for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007 was approximately $34 million, $5 million, and $4 million,
respectively. 

Franchise
rights represent the value attributed to agreements or authorizations with local
and state authorities that allow access to homes in cable service
areas.  Franchises are tested for impairment annually, or more
frequently as warranted by events or changes in
circumstances.  Franchises are aggregated into essentially inseparable
units of accounting to conduct the valuations.  The units of
accounting generally represent geographical clustering of our cable systems into
groups by which such systems are managed.  Management believes such
grouping represents the highest and best use of those assets. 

As a
result of the continued economic pressure on our customers from the recent
economic downturn along with increased competition, we determined that our
projected future growth would be lower than previously anticipated in our annual
impairment testing in December 2008.  Accordingly, we determined that
sufficient indicators existed to require us to perform an interim franchise
impairment analysis as of September 30, 2009.  As of the date of the
filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
2009, we determined that an impairment of franchises was probable and could be
reasonably estimated. Accordingly, for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, we
recorded a preliminary non-cash franchise impairment charge of $2.9 billion
which represented our best estimate of the impairment of our franchise assets.
We finalized our franchise impairment analysis during the quarter ended December
31, 2009, and recorded a reduction of the non-cash franchise impairment charge
of $691 million. 

We
recorded non-cash franchise impairment charges of $1.5 billion and $178 million
for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The
impairment charge recorded in 2008 was primarily the result of the impact of the
economic downturn along with increased competition while the impairment charge
recorded in 2007 was primarily the result of an increase in
competition. 

38 

Fresh start
accounting.   On the Effective Date, we applied fresh start
accounting and adjusted our franchise, goodwill, and other intangible assets
including trademarks and customer relationships to reflect fair
value.  Our valuations, which are based on the present value of
projected after tax cash flows, resulted in a value for property, plant and
equipment, franchises and customer relationships for each unit of
accounting.   As a result of applying fresh start accounting, we
recorded goodwill of $951 million which represents the excess of reorganization
value over amounts assigned to the other assets.  For more
information, see Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements
contained in  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.  

We
determined the estimated fair value of each unit of accounting utilizing an
income approach model based on the present value of the estimated discrete
future cash flows attributable to each of the intangible assets identified for
each unit assuming a discount rate. This approach makes use of unobservable
factors such as projected revenues, expenses, capital expenditures, and a
discount rate applied to the estimated cash flows. The determination of the
discount rate was based on a weighted average cost of capital approach, which
uses a market participant s cost of equity and after-tax cost of debt and
reflects the risks inherent in the cash flows. 

We
estimated discounted future cash flows using reasonable and appropriate
assumptions including among others, penetration rates for basic and digital
video, high-speed Internet, and telephone; revenue growth rates; operating
margins; and capital expenditures.  The assumptions are derived based
on Charter s and its peers  historical operating performance adjusted for
current and expected competitive and economic factors surrounding the cable
industry.  The estimates and assumptions made in our valuations are
inherently subject to significant uncertainties, many of which are beyond our
control, and there is no assurance that these results can be achieved. The
primary assumptions for which there is a reasonable possibility of the
occurrence of a variation that would significantly affect the measurement value
include the assumptions regarding revenue growth, programming expense growth
rates, the amount and timing of capital expenditures and the discount rate
utilized.  The assumptions used are consistent with current internal
forecasts, some of which differ from the assumptions used for the annual
impairment testing in December 2008 as a result of the economic and
competitive environment discussed previously.  The change in
assumptions reflects the lower than anticipated growth in revenues experienced
during 2009 and the expected reduction of future cash flows as compared to those
used in the December 2008 valuations. 

Franchises,
for valuation purposes, are defined as the future economic benefits of the right
to solicit and service potential customers (customer marketing rights), and the
right to deploy and market new services, such as interactivity and telephone, to
potential customers (service marketing rights).  Fair value is
determined based on estimated discrete discounted future cash flows using
assumptions consistent with internal forecasts.  The franchise
after-tax cash flow is calculated as the after-tax cash flow generated by the
potential customers obtained (less the anticipated customer churn), and the new
services added to those customers in future periods.  The sum of the
present value of the franchises' after-tax cash flow in years 1 through 10 and
the continuing value of the after-tax cash flow beyond year 10 yields the fair
value of the franchises.  Franchises increased $62 million as a result
of the application of fresh start accounting.  Subsequent to
finalization of the franchise impairment charge and fresh start accounting,
franchises are recorded at fair value of $5.3 billion.  Franchises are
expected to generate cash flows indefinitely and as such will continue to be
tested for impairment annually. 

Customer
relationships, for valuation purposes, represent the value of the business
relationship with existing customers (less the anticipated customer churn), and
are calculated by projecting the discrete future after-tax cash flows from these
customers, including the right to deploy and market additional services to these
customers.  The present value of these after-tax cash flows yields the
fair value of the customer relationships.  We recorded $2.4 billion of
customer relationships in connection with the application of fresh start
accounting on the Effective Date.  Customer relationships will be
amortized on an accelerated method over useful lives of 11-15 years based on the
period over which current customers are expected to generate cash
flows. 

We
recorded $158 million in trademarks in connection with the application of fresh
start accounting.  The fair value of trademarks was determined using
the relief-from-royalty method which applies a fair royalty rate to estimated
revenue.  Royalty rates were estimated based on a review of market
royalty rates in the communications and entertainment
industries.   As we expect to continue to use each trade name
indefinitely, trademarks have been assigned an indefinite life and will be
tested annually for impairment. 

Sensitivity.   As
a result of the impairment of franchises taken in 2009 and the application of
fresh start accounting, the carrying values of franchises and other intangible
assets were re-set to their estimated fair values as of November 30, 2009.
Consequently, any decline in the estimated fair values of intangible assets
would result in additional impairments. It is possible that such impairments, if
required, could be material and may need to be recorded prior to  

39 

the
fourth quarter of 2010 (i.e., during an interim period) if our results of
operations or other factors require such assets to be tested for impairment at
an interim date. Management has no reason to believe that any one unit of
accounting is more likely than any other to incur further impairments of its
intangible assets. 

While
economic conditions applicable at the time of the valuations indicate the
combination of assumptions utilized in the valuations are reasonable, as market
conditions change so will the assumptions, with a resulting impact on the
valuations and consequently the fair value of intangible assets.  For
illustrative purposes only, had we used a discount rate in assessing the fair
value of our intangible assets at November 30, 2009 that was 1% higher across
all units of accounting (holding all other assumptions unchanged) the fair value
of our franchises and customer relationships would have decreased by
approximately $1.1 billion  and $280 million, respectively.  Had we
used a discount rate that was 1% lower, the fair value of our franchises and
customer relationships would have increased by approximately $1.5 billion and
$321 million, respectively. 

Income
Taxes 

All
operations are held through Charter Holdco and its direct and indirect
subsidiaries.  Charter Holdco and the majority of its subsidiaries are
generally limited liability companies that are not subject to income
tax.  However, certain of these limited liability companies are
subject to state income tax.  In addition, the subsidiaries that are
corporations are subject to federal and state income tax.  All of the
remaining taxable income, gains, losses, deductions and credits of Charter
Holdco pass through to its members. 

The LLC
agreement that governed Charter Holdco prior to its emergence from bankruptcy
contained special loss and income allocation provisions.  Pursuant to
the operation of these provisions and applicable U.S. federal income tax law,
the cumulative amount of losses of Charter Holdco allocated to Vulcan Cable III,
Inc., an entity owned by Mr. Allen and subsequently merged into CII, and CII was
in excess of the amount that would have been allocated to such entities if the
losses of Charter Holdco had been allocated among its members in proportion to
their respective percentage ownership of Charter Holdco common membership
units. 

Effective
with Charter s emergence from bankruptcy on November 30, 2009, Charter Holdco s
LLC Agreement was amended such that section 704(b) book income and loss are to
be allocated among the members of Charter Holdco such that the members  capital
accounts are adjusted as nearly as possible to reflect the amount that each
member would have received if Charter Holdco were liquidated at section 704(b)
book values.  The allocation of taxable income and loss should follow
the section 704(b) book allocations and generally reflect the member s
respective percentage ownership of Charter Holdco common membership interests,
except to the extent of certain required allocations pursuant to section 704(c)
of the Internal Revenue Code. 

In
connection with the Plan, Charter, CII, Mr. Allen and Charter Holdco entered
into an exchange agreement (the  Exchange Agreement ), pursuant to which CII had
the right to require Charter to (i) exchange all or a portion of CII s
membership interest in Charter Holdco or 100% of CII for $1,000 in cash and
shares of Charter s Class A common stock in a taxable transaction, or (ii) merge
CII with and into Charter, or a wholly-owned subsidiary of Charter, in a
tax-free transaction (or undertake a tax-free transaction similar to the taxable
transaction in subclause (i)), subject to CII meeting certain
conditions.  In addition, Charter had the right, under certain
circumstances involving a change of control of Charter to require CII to effect
an exchange transaction of the type elected by CII from subclauses (i) or (ii)
above, which election is subject to certain limitations. 

On
December 28, 2009, CII exercised its right, under the Exchange Agreement with
Charter, to exchange 81% of its common membership interest in Charter Holdco for
$1,000 in cash and 907,698 shares of Charter s Class A common stock in a fully
taxable transaction.  Charter s deferred tax liability increased by
$100 million as a result of the transaction.  Charter also received a
step-up in tax basis in Charter Holdco s assets, under section 743 of the Code,
relative to the interest in Charter Holdco it acquired from
CII.  Based upon the taxable exchange which occurred on December 28,
2009, CII fulfilled the conditions necessary to allow it to elect a tax-free
transaction at any time during the remaining term of the Exchange
Agreement.  On February 8, 2010, the remaining interest was exchanged
after which Charter Holdco became 100% owned by Charter.  As a result,
in the first quarter of 2010, Charter s deferred tax liabilities will be
increased relative to the taxable gain inherent in CII s previous .19% Charter
Holdco interest. 

As of
December 31, 2009, Charter had approximately $6.3 billion of federal tax net
operating losses, resulting in a gross deferred tax asset of approximately $2.2
billion, expiring in the years 2014 through 2028.  These losses arose from
the operation of Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries. In addition, as of
December 31, 2009, Charter had state tax net operating losses, resulting in a
gross deferred tax asset (net of federal tax benefit) of approximately $209

40 

million,
generally expiring in years 2010 through 2028.  Due to uncertainties
in projected future taxable income, valuation allowances have been established
against the gross deferred tax assets for book accounting purposes, except for
deferred benefits available to offset certain deferred tax
liabilities.  Such tax net operating losses can accumulate and be used
to offset Charter s future taxable income.  The consummation of the Plan
generated an  ownership change  as defined in Section 382 of the
Code.  As a result, Charter is subject to an annual limitation on the
use of its net operating losses.  Further, Charter s net operating
loss carryforwards have been reduced by the amount of the cancellation of debt
income resulting from the Plan that was allocable to Charter.  The
limitation on Charter s ability to use its net operating losses, in conjunction
with the net operating loss expiration provisions, could reduce its ability
to use a portion of Charter s net operating losses to offset future taxable
income which could result in Charter being required to make material cash tax
payments.  Charter s ability to make such income tax payments, if any,
will depend at such time on its liquidity or its ability to raise additional
capital, and/or on receipt of payments or distributions from Charter Holdco and
its subsidiaries, including us.   

As of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, we have recorded net deferred income tax
liabilities of $306 million and $558 million, respectively.  As part
of our net liability, on December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had deferred tax
assets of $3.4 billion and $6.0 billion, respectively, which primarily relate to
financial and tax losses allocated to Charter from Charter Holdco.  In
assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether
it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets
will be realized.  Due to our history of losses, we were unable to assume
future taxable income in our analysis and accordingly valuation allowances have
been established except for deferred benefits available to offset certain
deferred tax liabilities that will reverse over time.  Accordingly, our
deferred tax assets have been offset with a corresponding valuation allowance of
$2.0 billion and $5.8 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. 

No tax
years for Charter or Charter Holdco are currently under examination by the
Internal Revenue Service.  Tax years ending 2006 through 2009 remain
subject to examination and assessment.  Years prior to 2006 remain
open solely for purposes of examination of Charter s net operating loss and
credit carryforwards. 

Litigation 

Legal
contingencies have a high degree of uncertainty.  When a loss from a
contingency becomes estimable and probable, a reserve is
established.  The reserve reflects management's best estimate of the
probable cost of ultimate resolution of the matter and is revised as facts and
circumstances change.  A reserve is released when a matter is
ultimately brought to closure or the statute of limitations
lapses.  We have established reserves for certain
matters.  If any of these matters are resolved unfavorably, resulting
in payment obligations in excess of management's best estimate of the outcome,
such resolution could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
financial condition, results of operations, or our liquidity. 

41 

Results of
Operations  

The
following table sets forth the percentages of revenues that items in the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations constituted for the periods
presented (dollars in millions, except per share data): 

Revenues.     Average monthly
revenue per basic video customer, measured on an annual basis, has increased
from $93 in 2007 to $105 in 2008 and $114 in 2009.  Average monthly
revenue per video customer represents total annual revenue, divided by twelve,
divided by the average number of basic video customers during the respective
period.  Revenue growth primarily reflects increases in the number of
telephone, high-speed Internet, and digital video customers, price increases,
and incremental video revenues from OnDemand, DVR, and high-definition
television services, offset by a decrease in basic video
customers.  Asset sales, net of acquisitions, in 2007, 2008, and 2009
reduced the increase in revenues in 2009 as compared to 2008 by approximately
$17 million and in 2008 as compared to 2007 by approximately $31
million. 

Revenues
by service offering were as follows (dollars in millions): 

42 

Video
revenues consist primarily of revenues from basic and digital video services
provided to our non-commercial customers.  Basic video customers
decreased by 212,400 and 174,200 customers in 2009 and 2008, respectively, of
which 12,400 in 2009 and 16,700 in 2008 were related to asset sales, net of
acquisitions.  Digital video customers increased by 84,700 and 213,000
customers in 2009 and 2008, respectively.  The increase in 2009 and
2008 was reduced by asset sales, net of acquisitions, of 1,200 and 7,600 digital
customers, respectively.  The increases in video revenues are
attributable to the following (dollars in millions): 

Residential
high-speed Internet customers grew by 187,100 and 192,700 customers in 2009 and
2008, respectively.  The increase in 2008 was reduced by asset sales,
net of acquisitions, of 5,600 high-speed Internet customers and the increase in
2009 included asset acquisitions, net of sales of 400 high-speed Internet
customers.  The increases in high-speed Internet revenues from our
residential customers are attributable to the following (dollars in
millions): 

Revenues
from telephone services increased by $158 million and $220 million in 2009 and
2008, respectively, as a result of an increase of 247,100 and 389,500 telephone
customers in 2009 and 2008, respectively, including an increase of $1 million in
2009 related to higher average rates and offset by a decrease of $10 million in
2008 related to lower average rates. 

Commercial
revenues consist primarily of revenues from services provided to our commercial
customers.  Commercial revenues increased primarily as a result of
increased sales of the Charter Business Bundle  primarily to small and
medium-sized businesses.  The increases were reduced by approximately
$1 million in 2009 and $2 million in 2008 as a result of asset
sales. 

Advertising
sales revenues consist primarily of revenues from commercial advertising
customers, programmers and other vendors.  In 2009, advertising sales
revenues decreased primarily as a result of significant decreases in revenues
from the political, automotive and retail sectors coupled with a decrease of $2
million related to asset sales.  In 2008, advertising sales revenues
increased primarily as a result of increases in political advertising sales and
advertising sales to vendors offset by significant decreases in revenues from
the automotive and furniture sectors, and a decrease of $2 million related to
asset sales.  For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007,
we received $41 million, $39 million, and $15 million, respectively, in
advertising sales revenues from vendors. 

Other
revenues consist of franchise fees, regulatory fees, customer installations,
home shopping, late payment fees, wire maintenance fees and other miscellaneous
revenues.  For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007,
franchise fees represented approximately 45%, 46%, and 46%, respectively, of
total other revenues.  The decrease in other revenues in 2009 was
primarily the result of decreases in home shopping. The increase in other
revenues in 2008 was primarily the result of increases in franchise and other
regulatory fees and wire maintenance fees.  The increases were reduced
by approximately $1 million in 2009 and $3 million in 2008 as a result of asset
sales. 

43 

Operating
expenses  .   The increases in
our operating expenses are attributable to the following (dollars in
millions): 

Programming
costs were approximately $1.7 billion, $1.6 billion, and $1.6 billion,
representing 60%, 59%, and 60% of total operating expenses for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.  Programming
costs consist primarily of costs paid to programmers for basic, premium,
digital, OnDemand, and pay-per-view programming.  The increases in
programming costs are primarily a result of annual contractual rate adjustments,
offset in part by asset sales and customer losses.  Programming costs
were also offset by the amortization of payments received from programmers of
$26 million, $33 million, and $25 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007,
respectively.  We expect programming expenses to continue to increase,
and at a higher rate than in 2009, due to a variety of factors, including
amounts paid for retransmission consent, annual increases imposed by
programmers, and additional programming, including high-definition, OnDemand,
and pay-per-view programming, being provided to our customers. 

Selling, general
and administrative expenses.    The increases
(decreases) in selling, general and administrative expenses are attributable to
the following (dollars in millions): 

Depreciation and
amortization.    Depreciation and
amortization expense increased by $6 million and decreased by $18 million in
2009 and 2008, respectively.  During 2009, the increase was primarily
the result of increased amortization associated with the increase in customer
relationships as a part of applying fresh start accounting.  During
2008, the decrease in depreciation was primarily the result of asset sales,
certain assets becoming fully depreciated, and an $81 million decrease due to
the impact of changes in the useful lives of certain assets during 2007, offset
by depreciation on capital expenditures. 

Impairment of
franchises.  We recorded impairment of $2.2 billion, $1.5 billion and $178
million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  The impairments recorded in 2009 and 2008 were largely
driven by lower expected revenue growth resulting from the current economic
downturn and increased competition.  The impairment recorded in 2007 was
largely driven by increased competition. 

Asset impairment
charges.  Asset impairment charges for the year ended December 31, 2007
represent the write-down of cable systems meeting the criteria of assets held
for sale to fair value less costs to sell. 

44 

Other operating
(income) expenses, net.   The changes in other operating
(income) expenses, net are attributable to the following (dollars in
millions): 

The
decrease in special charges in 2009 as compared to 2008 is the result of
favorable litigation settlements in 2009 as compared to unfavorable litigation
settlements in 2008.  For more information, see Note 17 to the
accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in  Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.  

Interest expense,
net.     Net
interest expense decreased by $817 million in 2009 from 2008 and increased by
$44 million in 2008 from 2007.  Because we filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy on
March 27, 2009, we no longer accrued interest on debt subject to compromise
effective March 27, 2009 , except on CCH II debt, as we intended to pay
the interest under the Plan.   As such, interest expense
for 2009 decreased as compared to 2008.  The amount of contractual
interest expense not recorded for the year ended December 31, 2009 was
approximately $558 million.  The increase in net interest expense from
2007 to 2008 was a result of average debt outstanding increasing from $19.6
billion in 2007 to $20.3 billion in 2008, offset by a decrease in our average
borrowing rate from 9.2% in 2007 to 8.8% in 2008. We restated prior year amounts
as a result of the adoption of accounting guidance regarding convertible debt
with net cash settlement provisions.  See Note 26 to the accompanying
consolidated financial statements contained in  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.  

Change in value
of derivatives.   Interest rate swaps were held to manage our
interest costs and reduce our exposure to increases in floating interest
rates.  We expensed the change in fair value of derivatives that did
not qualify for hedge accounting and cash flow hedge ineffectiveness on interest
rate swap agreements.   Upon filing for Chapter 11
bankruptcy, the counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements terminated
the underlying contracts and, upon emergence from bankruptcy, received payment
for the market value of the interest rate swap agreement as measured on the date
the counterparties terminated.   Additionally, certain
provisions of our 5.875% and 6.50% convertible senior notes issued in November
2004 and October 2007, respectively, were considered embedded derivatives for
accounting purposes and were required to be accounted for separately from the
convertible senior notes and marked to fair value at the end of each reporting
period.  On the Effective Date, the convertible debt was
cancelled.  At December 31, 2008, the fair value of the embedded
derivatives was de minimus.  Change in value of derivatives consists
of the following for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and
2007. 

Gain due to Plan
effects.   Gain due to Plan effects represents the net gains
recorded as a result of implementing the Plan including the impact of
eliminating $8 billion in debt.  For more information, see Note 2 to
the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contained in  Item
8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  

Gain due to fresh
start accounting adjustments.   Upon our emergence from
bankruptcy, the Company applied fresh start accounting.  Gain due to
fresh start accounting adjustments represents the net gains recognized as a
result of adjusting all assets and liabilities to fair value.  For
more information, see Note 2 to the accompanying condensed consolidated
financial statements contained in  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.  

Reorganizations
items, net.   Reorganization items, net of $647 million for the
year ended December 31, 2009 represent items of income, expense, gain or loss
that we realized or incurred because we were in reorganization under Chapter 11
of the Bankruptcy Code.  For more information, see Note 18 to the
accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contained in  Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  

45 

Other income
(expense), net.   The changes in other income (expense), net are
attributable to the following (dollars in millions): 

We
restated prior years gain (loss) on extinguishment of debt as a result of the
adoption of accounting guidance regarding convertible debt with net cash
settlement provisions.  For more information, see Notes 19 and 26 to
the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in  Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  

Income tax
benefit (expense).    Income tax benefit for
the year ended December 31, 2009 was realized as a result of decreases in
certain deferred tax liabilities related to our investment in Charter Holdco and
certain of our subsidiaries.  These decreases are primarily
attributable to the impairment of franchises and fresh start accounting
adjustments for financial statement purposes and not for tax
purposes.  However, the actual tax provision calculations in future
periods will be the result of current and future temporary differences, as well
as future operating results.  Income tax benefit for the year ended
December 31, 2008 included $325 million of deferred tax benefit related to the
impairment of franchises.  Income tax expense in 2007 was recognized
through increases in deferred tax liabilities related to our investment in
Charter Holdco and certain of our subsidiaries, in addition to current federal
and state income tax expense.  Income tax benefit (expense) included
$2 million and $15 million of deferred tax benefit related to asset acquisitions
and sales occurring in 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

Net (income) loss
  noncontrolling interest.   Noncontrolling interest represented
the allocation of income to Mr. Allen s previous 5.6% membership interests in CC
VIII and effective January 1, 2009, the allocation of losses to Mr. Allen s
noncontrolling interest in Charter Holdco.  Mr. Allen has subsequently
transferred his CC VIII interest to Charter and reduced his ownership in Charter
Holdco to 1% pursuant to the Plan. See Notes 2 and 12 to our accompanying
consolidated financial statements contained in  Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.  The increase in losses allocated is the
result of the adoption on January 1, 2009 of new accounting guidance which
requires losses to be allocated to noncontrolling interest even when such
interest is in a deficit position. 

Net income
(loss).    The
impact to net income (loss) as a result of impairment charges, reorganization
items and gains due to Plan effects and fresh start accounting, net of tax, was
to increase net income by approximately $11.0 billion in 2009, and to increase
net loss in 2008 and 2007 by approximately $1.2 billion, and $255 million,
respectively. 

Use of Adjusted
EBITDA  

We use
certain measures that are not defined by GAAP to evaluate various aspects of our
business. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure and should be
considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, net income (loss) reported
in accordance with GAAP. This term, as defined by us, may not be comparable to
similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is reconciled
to consolidated net income (loss) below. 

Adjusted
EBITDA is defined as consolidated net income (loss) plus net interest expense,
income taxes, depreciation and amortization, gains realized due to Plan effects
and fresh start accounting adjustments, reorganization items, impairment of
franchises, asset impairment charges, stock compensation expense and other
operating expenses, such as special charges and loss on sale or retirement of
assets. As such, it eliminates the significant non-cash depreciation and
amortization expense that results from the capital-intensive nature of our
businesses as well as other non-cash or non-recurring items, and is unaffected
by our capital structure or investment activities. Adjusted EBITDA is used by
management and Charter s board of directors to evaluate the performance of our
business. For this reason, it is a significant component of Charter s annual
incentive compensation program. However, this measure is limited in that it does
not reflect the periodic costs of certain capitalized tangible and intangible
assets  

46 

used in
generating revenues and our cash cost of financing. Management evaluates these
costs through other financial measures. 

We
believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides information useful to investors in
assessing our performance and our ability to service our debt, fund operations
and make additional investments with internally generated funds. In addition,
Adjusted EBITDA generally correlates to the leverage ratio calculation under our
credit facilities or outstanding notes to determine compliance with the
covenants contained in the facilities and notes (all such documents have been
previously filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission).
Adjusted EBITDA includes management fee expenses in the amount of $136 million,
$131 million and $129 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively, which expense amounts are excluded for the purposes of
calculating compliance with leverage covenants. 

Liquidity and Capital
Resources  

Introduction  

This
section contains a discussion of our liquidity and capital resources, including
a discussion of our cash position, sources and uses of cash, access to credit
facilities and other financing sources, historical financing activities, cash
needs, capital expenditures and outstanding debt. 

Overview
of Our Debt and Liquidity 

Although
we reduced our debt by approximately $8 billion on November 30, 2009 pursuant to
the Plan, we continue to have significant amounts of debt.  Our business
requires significant cash to fund principal and interest payments on our
debt.  As of December 31, 2009, $70 million of our long-term debt matures
in each of 2010 and 2011, $1.2 billion in 2012, $2.2 billion in 2013, $8.2
billion in 2014 and $1.8 billion in 2016.  We continue to monitor the
capital markets, and we expect to undertake refinancing transactions and utilize
cash flows from operating activities and cash on hand to further extend or
reduce the maturities of our principal obligations which are currently
concentrated in 2014.  The timing and terms of any refinancing
transactions will be subject to market conditions.  Our business also
requires significant cash to fund capital expenditures and ongoing
operations.  Our projected cash needs and projected sources of liquidity
depend upon, among other things, our actual results, and the timing and amount
of our expenditures.  

Prior to
our bankruptcy filing, we funded our cash requirements through cash flows from
operating activities, borrowings under our credit facilities, proceeds from
sales of assets, issuances of debt and equity securities, and cash on
hand.  Upon filing bankruptcy and continuing under the Plan as consummated,
Charter Operating no longer has access to the revolving feature of its revolving
credit facility (which $1.4 billion of the $1.5 billion facility had been
utilized) and will rely on cash on hand and cash flows from operating activities
to fund our projected operating cash needs.  We believe we have
sufficient liquidity from these sources to fund our projected operating cash
needs through 2011.  

47 

As of
December 31, 2009, the accreted value of our total debt was approximately
$13.3 billion, as summarized below (dollars in millions): 

(a) 

Upon
      the effectiveness of our Plan, we applied fresh start accounting and as
      such adjusted our debt to reflect fair value.  Therefore, as of
      December 31, 2009, the accreted values presented above represent the fair
      value of the notes as of the Effective Date, plus the accretion to the
      balance sheet date.  However, the amount that is currently
      payable if the debt becomes immediately due is equal to the principal
      amount of notes. 

(b) 

In
      general, the obligors have the right to redeem all of the notes set forth
      in the above table in whole or in part at their option, beginning at
      various times prior to their stated maturity dates, subject to certain
      conditions, upon the payment of the outstanding principal amount (plus a
      specified redemption premium) and all accrued and unpaid
      interest.  For additional information see Note 8 to the
      accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in  Item 8.
      Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.  

(c) 

Includes
      $6.9 billion principal amount of term loans repayable in equal quarterly
      installments and aggregating in each loan year to 1% of the original
      amount of the term loan, with the remaining balance due at final maturity
      on March 6, 2014, and $1.3 billion principal amount credit facility with a
      maturity date on March 6, 2013. 

The
following table summarizes our payment obligations as of December 31, 2009 under
our long-term debt and certain other contractual obligations and commitments
(dollars in millions.)  

(1) 

The
      table presents maturities of long-term debt outstanding as of
      December 31, 2009.  Refer to Notes 8 and 24 to our
      accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in  Item 8.
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  for a description of our
      long-term debt and other contractual obligations and
      commitments. 

(2) 

Interest
      payments on variable debt are estimated using amounts outstanding at
      December 31, 2009 and the average implied forward London Interbank
      Offering Rate (LIBOR) rates applicable for the quarter during the interest
      rate reset based on the yield curve in effect at December 31,
      2009.  Actual interest payments will differ based on actual
      LIBOR rates and actual amounts outstanding for applicable
      periods. 

48 

(3) 

We
      lease certain facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating
      leases.  Leases and rental costs charged to expense for the
      years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, were $25 million, $24
      million, and $23 million, respectively. 

(4) 

We
      pay programming fees under multi-year contracts ranging from three to ten
      years, typically based on a flat fee per customer, which may be fixed for
      the term, or may in some cases escalate over the
      term.  Programming costs included in the accompanying statement
      of operations were approximately $1.7 billion, $1.6 billion, and $1.6
      billion, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007,
      respectively.  Certain of our programming agreements are based
      on a flat fee per month or have guaranteed minimum
      payments.  The table sets forth the aggregate guaranteed minimum
      commitments under our programming contracts. 

(5) 

Other 
      represents the preferred stock, and related interest payments, that were
      issued to holders of convertible notes on the Effective Date as provided
      in the Plan, and other guaranteed minimum commitments, which consist
      primarily of commitments to our billing services vendors. Refer to Note 10
      to our accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in
       Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  for a
      description of the preferred stock. 

The
following items are not included in the contractual obligations table because
the obligations are not fixed and/or determinable due to various factors
discussed below.  However, we incur these costs as part of our
operations: 

We
      rent utility poles used in our operations.  Generally, pole
      rentals are cancelable on short notice, but we anticipate that such
      rentals will recur.  Rent expense incurred for pole rental
      attachments for each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and
      2007, was $47 million. 

We
      pay franchise fees under multi-year franchise agreements based on a
      percentage of revenues generated from video service per
      year.  We also pay other franchise related costs, such as public
      education grants, under multi-year agreements.  Franchise fees
      and other franchise-related costs included in the accompanying statement
      of operations were $176 million, $179 million, and $172 million for the
      years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007,
    respectively. 

We
      also have $124 million in letters of credit, primarily to our various
      worker s compensation, property and casualty, and general liability
      carriers, as collateral for reimbursement of
  claims. 

Limitations on
Distributions  

Distributions by Charter s subsidiaries
to a parent company   for
payment of principal on parent company notes   are restricted under indentures and
credit facilities governing the indebtedness of the subsidiaries,   unless there is no default under the
applicable indenture and credit facilities, and unless each applicable
subsidiary s leverage ratio test is met at the time of such
distribution.    As of December 31, 2009, there was no
default under any of these indentures or credit facilities.  However,
certain of our subsidiaries did not meet their applicable leverage ratio tests
based on December 31, 2009 financial results.  As a result,
distributions from certain of our subsidiaries to their parent companies would
have been restricted at such time and will continue to be restricted unless
those tests are met.  Distributions by Charter Operating for payment
of principal on parent company notes are further restricted by the covenants in
its credit facilities.  

Distributions
by CCO Holdings and Charter Operating to a parent company for payment of parent
company interest are permitted if there is no default under the aforementioned
indentures and CCO Holdings and Charter Operating credit
facilities. 

In
addition to the limitation on distributions under the various indentures
discussed above, distributions by our subsidiaries may be limited by applicable
law, including the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, under which our
subsidiaries may only make distributions if they have  surplus  as defined in
the act.  See  Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors  Restrictions in our
subsidiaries  debt instruments and under applicable law limit their ability to
provide funds to us or our various debt issuers.  

Historical Operating, Investing, and
Financing Activities  

Cash and Cash
Equivalents.   We held $754 million in cash and cash
equivalents, including restricted cash, as of December 31, 2009 compared to $960
million as of December 31, 2008. 

49 

Operating
Activities.     Net cash provided by
operating activities increased $195 million from $399 million for the year ended
December 31, 2008 to $594 for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily as a
result of a decrease of $803 million in cash paid for interest, and revenues
increasing at a faster rate than cash expenses.  These amounts were
partially offset by cash reorganization items of $477 million for the year ended
December 31, 2009. 

Net cash
provided by operating activities increased $72 million from $327 million for the
year ended December 31, 2007 to $399 million for the year ended December 31,
2008, primarily as a result of revenue growth from high-speed Internet and
telephone driven by bundled services, as well as improved cost efficiencies,
offset by an increase of $33 million in interest on cash pay obligations and
changes in operating assets and liabilities that provided $71 million less cash
during the same period. 

Investing
Activities.    Net cash used in
investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, was
$1.3 billion, $1.2 billion, and $1.1 billion, respectively.  The
increase in 2009 compared to 2008 is primarily due the purchase of the CC VIII
interest in 2009 in connection with the Plan, offset by a decrease of $68
million in purchases of property, plant, and equipment.  The increase
in 2008 compared to 2007 is primarily due to a decrease in proceeds received
from the sale of assets, including cable systems. 

Financing
Activities.    Net cash provided by
financing activities was $504 million, $1.7 billion and $826 million for the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The
decrease in cash provided during the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to
the corresponding period in 2008 was primarily the result of no borrowings of
long-term debt in 2009.  The increase in cash provided during the year
ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the corresponding period in 2007 was
primarily the result of an increase in the amount by which borrowings exceeded
repayments of long-term debt. 

Capital
Expenditures  

We have
significant ongoing capital expenditure requirements.  Capital
expenditures were $1.1 billion, $1.2 billion, and $1.2 billion for the years
ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.  See the table
below for more details. 

Our
capital expenditures are funded primarily from cash flows from operating
activities and the issuance of debt.  In addition, our liabilities
related to capital expenditures decreased by $10 million, $39 million and $2
million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. 

During
2010, we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $1.2
billion.  We expect the nature of these expenditures will continue to
be composed primarily of purchases of customer premise equipment related to
telephone and other advanced services, support capital, and scalable
infrastructure.  The actual amount of our capital expenditures depends
on the deployment of advanced broadband services and offerings.  We
may need additional capital if there is accelerated growth in high-speed
Internet, telephone or digital customers or there is an increased need to
respond to competitive pressures by expanding the delivery of other advanced
services. 

We have
adopted capital expenditure disclosure guidance, which was developed by eleven
then publicly traded cable system operators, including Charter, with the support
of the National Cable   Telecommunications Association
( NCTA ).  The disclosure is intended to provide more consistency in
the reporting of capital expenditures among peer companies in the cable
industry.  These disclosure guidelines are not required disclosures
under GAAP, nor do they impact our accounting for capital expenditures under
GAAP. 

50 

The
following table presents our major capital expenditures categories in accordance
with NCTA disclosure guidelines for the years ended December 31, 2009,
2008, and 2007 (dollars in millions): 

(a) 

Customer
      premise equipment includes costs incurred at the customer residence to
      secure new customers, revenue units and additional bandwidth
      revenues.  It also includes customer installation costs and
      customer premise equipment (e.g., set-top boxes and cable modems,
      etc.). 

(b) 

Scalable
      infrastructure includes costs not related to customer premise equipment or
      our network, to secure growth of new customers, revenue units, and
      additional bandwidth revenues, or provide service enhancements (e.g.,
      headend equipment). 

(c) 

Line
      extensions include network costs associated with entering new service
      areas (e.g., fiber/coaxial cable, amplifiers, electronic equipment,
      make-ready and design engineering). 

(d) 

Upgrade/rebuild
      includes costs to modify or replace existing fiber/coaxial cable networks,
      including betterments. 

(e) 

Support
      capital includes costs associated with the replacement or enhancement of
      non-network assets due to technological and physical obsolescence (e.g.,
      non-network equipment, land, buildings and
  vehicles). 

Description
of Our Outstanding Debt 

Overview 

As of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, the blended weighted average interest rate on our
debt was 5.5% and 8.4%, respectively.  The interest rate on
approximately 37% and 80% of the total principal amount of our debt was
effectively fixed, including the effects of our interest rate hedge agreements,
if any, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  The fair
value of our high-yield notes was $5.4 billion and $4.4 billion at December 31,
2009 and 2008, respectively.  The fair value of our credit facilities
was $8.0 billion and $6.2 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.  The fair value of our high-yield notes and credit
facilities were based on quoted market prices. 

The
following description is a summary of certain provisions of our credit
facilities and our notes (the  Debt Agreements ).  The summary does not
restate the terms of the Debt Agreements in their entirety, nor does it describe
all terms of the Debt Agreements.  The agreements and instruments governing
each of the Debt Agreements are complicated and you should consult such
agreements and instruments for more detailed information regarding the Debt
Agreements. 

Credit
Facilities   General 

Charter
Operating Credit Facilities 

On the
Effective Date, the Charter Operating credit facilities remain outstanding
although the revolving line of credit is no longer available for new borrowings
and remains substantially drawn with the same maturity and interest
terms.  The Charter Operating credit facilities have outstanding
principal amount of $8.2 billion at December 31, 2009 as follows: 

a
      term loan with a remaining principal amount of $6.4 billion, which is
      repayable in equal quarterly installments and aggregating in each loan
      year to 1% of the original amount of the term loan, with the remaining
      balance due at final maturity on March 6, 2014; 

an
      incremental term loan with a remaining principal amount of $491 million
      which is payable on of March 6, 2014 and prior to that date will amortize
      in quarterly principal installments totaling 1% annually;
    and 

51 

The
Charter Operating credit facilities also allow us to enter into incremental term
loans in the future with an aggregate amount of up to an additional $500
million, with amortization as set forth in the notices establishing such term
loans, but with no amortization greater than 1% prior to the final maturity of
the existing term loan.   Although the
Charter Operating credit facilities allow for the incurrence of up to an
additional $500 million in incremental term loans, no assurance can be given
that we could obtain additional incremental term loans in the future if Charter
Operating sought to do so. 

Amounts
outstanding under the Charter Operating credit facilities bear interest, at
Charter Operating s election, at a base rate or LIBOR, as defined, plus a margin
for LIBOR loans of 2.00% for the revolving credit facility and for the term
loan.  The current incremental term loan bears interest at LIBOR plus
5.0%, with a LIBOR floor of 3.5% or at Charter Operating s election, a base rate
plus a margin of 4.00%.  Charter Operating has currently elected the
base rate for the incremental term loan. 

The
obligations of Charter Operating under the Charter Operating credit facilities
(the  Obligations ) are guaranteed by Charter Operating s immediate parent
company, CCO Holdings, and subsidiaries of Charter Operating, except for certain
subsidiaries, including immaterial subsidiaries and subsidiaries precluded from
guaranteeing by reason of the provisions of other indebtedness to which they are
subject (the  non-guarantor subsidiaries ).  The Obligations are also
secured by (i) a lien on substantially all of the assets of Charter
Operating and its subsidiaries (other than assets of the non-guarantor
subsidiaries), to the extent such lien can be perfected under the Uniform
Commercial Code by the filing of a financing statement, and (ii) a pledge
by CCO Holdings of the equity interests owned by it in Charter Operating or any
of Charter Operating s subsidiaries, as well as intercompany obligations owing
to it by any of such entities. 

CCO
Holdings Credit Facility 

In March
2007, CCO Holdings entered into a credit agreement (the  CCO Holdings credit
facility ) which consists of a $350 million term loan facility.  The
facility matures in September 2014.  The CCO Holdings credit facility
also allows us to enter into incremental term loans in the future, maturing on
the dates set forth in the notices establishing such term loans, but no earlier
than the maturity date of the existing term loans.  However, no
assurance can be given that we could obtain such incremental term loans if CCO
Holdings sought to do so.  Borrowings under the CCO Holdings credit
facility bear interest at a variable interest rate based on either LIBOR or a
base rate plus, in either case, an applicable margin.  The applicable
margin for LIBOR term loans, other than incremental loans, is 2.50% above
LIBOR.  If an event of default were to occur, CCO Holdings would not
be able to elect LIBOR and would have to pay interest at the base rate plus the
applicable margin.  The applicable margin with respect to incremental
loans is to be agreed upon by CCO Holdings and the lenders when the incremental
loans are established.  The CCO Holdings credit facility is secured by
the equity interests of Charter Operating, and all proceeds
thereof. 

Credit
Facilities   Restrictive Covenants 

Charter
Operating Credit Facilities 

The
Charter Operating credit facilities contain representations and warranties, and
affirmative and negative covenants customary for financings of this type. The
financial covenants measure performance against standards set for leverage to be
tested as of the end of each quarter.  Additionally, the Charter
Operating credit facilities contain provisions requiring mandatory loan
prepayments under specific circumstances, including in connection with certain
sales of assets, so long as the proceeds have not been reinvested in the
business.  The Charter Operating credit facilities permit Charter
Operating and its subsidiaries to make distributions to pay interest on the
subordinated and parent company indebtedness, provided that, among other things,
no default has occurred and is continuing under the credit
facilities. 

The
events of default under the Charter Operating credit facilities include among
other things: 

the
      failure to make payments when due or within the applicable grace
      period; 

the
      failure to comply with specified covenants, including, but not limited to,
      a covenant to deliver audited financial statements for Charter Operating
      with an unqualified opinion from our independent accountants and without a
       going concern  or like qualification or exception; 

the
      failure to pay or the occurrence of events that cause or permit the
      acceleration of other indebtedness owing by CCO Holdings, Charter
      Operating, or Charter Operating s subsidiaries in amounts in excess of
      $100 million in  

52 

aggregate
      principal amount; 

the
      failure to pay or the occurrence of events that result in the acceleration
      of other indebtedness owing by certain of CCO Holdings  direct and
      indirect parent companies in amounts in excess of $200 million in
      aggregate principal amount; 

Mr.
      Allen and/or certain of his family members and/or their exclusively owned
      entities (collectively, the  Paul Allen Group ) ceasing to have the power,
      directly or indirectly, to vote at least 35% of the ordinary voting power
      for the management of Charter Operating on a fully diluted
      basis; 

the
      consummation of any transaction resulting in any person or group (other
      than the Paul Allen Group) having power, directly or indirectly, to vote
      more than 35% of the ordinary voting power for the management of Charter
      Operating on a fully diluted basis, unless the Paul Allen Group holds a
      greater share of ordinary voting power for the management of Charter
      Operating; and 

Charter
      Operating ceasing to be a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of CCO Holdings,
      except in certain very limited
circumstances. 

CCO
Holdings Credit Facility 

The CCO
Holdings credit facility contains covenants that are substantially similar to
the restrictive covenants for the CCO Holdings notes except that the leverage
ratio is 5.50 to 1.0.  See   Summary of Restricted Covenants of Our
Notes.   The CCO Holdings credit facility contains provisions
requiring mandatory loan prepayments under specific circumstances, including in
connection with certain sales of assets, so long as the proceeds have not been
reinvested in the business.  The CCO Holdings credit facility permits
CCO Holdings and its subsidiaries to make distributions to pay interest on the
CCH II notes, the CCO Holdings notes, the Charter Operating credit facilities
and the Charter Operating second-lien notes, provided that, among other things,
no default has occurred and is continuing under the CCO Holdings credit
facility. 

Notes 

Provided
below is a brief description of the notes issued by CCH II, CCO Holdings and
Charter Operating. 

CCH
II Notes 

On
November 30, 2009, CCH II and CCH II Capital Corp. issued approximately $1.8
billion in total principal amount of new 13.5% senior notes. The New CCH II
Notes pay interest in cash semi-annually in arrears at the rate of 13.5% per
annum and are unsecured. The New CCH II Notes will mature on November 30,
2016.  The New CCH II Notes are structurally subordinated to all
obligations of the subsidiaries of CCH II, including the CCO Holdings notes and
credit facility and the Charter operating notes and credit
facilities. 

CCO
Holdings Notes 

In
November 2003 and August 2005, CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital Corp.
jointly issued $500 million and $300 million, respectively, total principal
amount of 8 % senior notes due 2013 (the  CCOH 2013 Notes ).  The CCOH
2013 Notes are senior debt obligations of CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital
Corp. They rank equally with all other current and future unsecured,
unsubordinated obligations of CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital
Corp.  The CCOH 2013 Notes are structurally subordinated to all
obligations of subsidiaries of CCO Holdings, including the Charter Operating
notes and the Charter Operating credit facilities. 

Charter
Operating Notes 

As of
December 31, 2009, Charter Operating had $1.1 billion principal amount of 8.0%
senior second-lien notes due 2012, $770 million principal amount of 8 3/8%
senior second-lien notes due 2014, and $546 million principal amount of 10.875%
senior second-lien notes due 2014. 

Subject
to specified limitations, CCO Holdings and those subsidiaries of Charter
Operating that are guarantors of, or otherwise obligors with respect to,
indebtedness under the Charter Operating credit facilities and related
obligations are required to guarantee the Charter Operating
notes.  The note guarantee of each such guarantor is: 

a
      senior obligation of such
guarantor; 

structurally
      senior to the outstanding CCO Holdings notes (except in the case of CCO
      Holdings  note guarantee, which is structurally  pari passu  with such
      senior notes), and the outstanding CCH II
notes; 

53 

senior
      in right of payment to any future subordinated indebtedness of such
      guarantor; and 

effectively
      senior to the relevant subsidiary s unsecured indebtedness, to the extent
      of the value of the collateral but subject to the prior lien of the credit
      facilities. 

The
Charter Operating notes and related note guarantees are secured by a
second-priority lien on all of Charter Operating s and its subsidiaries  assets
that secure the obligations of Charter Operating or any subsidiary of Charter
Operating with respect to the Charter Operating credit facilities and the
related obligations.  The collateral currently consists of the capital
stock of Charter Operating held by CCO Holdings, all of the intercompany
obligations owing to CCO Holdings by Charter Operating or any subsidiary of
Charter Operating, and substantially all of Charter Operating s and the
guarantors  assets (other than the assets of CCO Holdings) in which security
interests may be perfected under the Uniform Commercial Code by filing a
financing statement (including capital stock and intercompany obligations),
including, but not limited to: 

with
      certain exceptions, all capital stock (limited in the case of capital
      stock of foreign subsidiaries, if any, to 66% of the capital stock of
      first tier foreign Subsidiaries) held by Charter Operating or any
      guarantor; and 

with
      certain exceptions, all intercompany obligations owing to Charter
      Operating or any guarantor. 

In the
event that additional liens are granted by Charter Operating or its subsidiaries
to secure obligations under the Charter Operating credit facilities or the
related obligations, second priority liens on the same assets will be granted to
secure the Charter Operating notes, which liens will be subject to the
provisions of an intercreditor agreement (to which none of Charter Operating or
its affiliates are parties).  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence,
no such second priority liens need be provided if the time such lien would
otherwise be granted is not during a guarantee and pledge availability period
(when the Leverage Condition is satisfied), but such second priority liens will
be required to be provided in accordance with the foregoing sentence on or prior
to the fifth business day of the commencement of the next succeeding guarantee
and pledge availability period. 

The
Charter Operating notes are senior debt obligations of Charter Operating and
Charter Communications Operating Capital Corp.  To the extent of the
value of the collateral (but subject to the prior lien of the credit
facilities), they rank effectively senior to all of Charter Operating s future
unsecured senior indebtedness. 

Redemption
Provisions of Our Notes 

The
various notes issued by our subsidiaries that remain outstanding pursuant to the
Plan included in the table may be redeemed in accordance with the following
table or are not redeemable until maturity as indicated: 

* 

Charter
      Operating may, at any time and from time to time, at their option, redeem
      the outstanding 8% second lien notes due 2012, in whole or in part, at a
      redemption price equal to 100% of the principal

54 

amount
      thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date,
      plus the Make-Whole Premium.  The Make-Whole Premium is an
      amount equal to the excess of (a) the present value of the remaining
      interest and principal payments due on an 8% senior second-lien notes due
      2012 to its final maturity date, computed using a discount rate equal to
      the Treasury Rate on such date plus 0.50%, over (b) the outstanding
      principal amount of such Note. 

** 

Charter
      Operating may redeem the outstanding 10.875% senior second-lien notes due
      2014, at their option, on or after varying dates, in each case at a
      premium, plus the Make-Whole Premium.  The Make-Whole Premium is an
      amount equal to the excess of (a) the present value of the remaining
      interest and principal payments due on a 10.875% senior second-lien note
      due 2014 to its final maturity date, computed using a discount rate equal
      to the Treasury Rate on such date plus 0.50%, over (b) the outstanding
      principal amount of such note.  The Charter Operating 10.875% senior
      second-lien notes may be redeemed at any time on or after March 15, 2012
      at specified prices.  

In the
event that a specified change of control event occurs, each of the respective
issuers of the notes must offer to repurchase any then outstanding notes at 101%
of their principal amount or accrued value, as applicable, plus accrued and
unpaid interest, if any. 

Summary
of Restrictive Covenants of Our Notes 

The
following description is a summary of certain restrictions of our Debt
Agreements that remain outstanding following the effectiveness of the Plan.
 The summary does not restate the terms of the Debt Agreements in their
entirety, nor does it describe all restrictions of the Debt Agreements.
 The agreements and instruments governing each of the Debt Agreements are
complicated and you should consult such agreements and instruments for more
detailed information regarding the Debt Agreements.   

The notes
issued by certain of our subsidiaries (together, the  note issuers ) were issued
pursuant to indentures that contain covenants that restrict the ability of the
note issuers and their subsidiaries to, among other things: 

incur
      indebtedness; 

pay
      dividends or make distributions in respect of capital stock and other
      restricted payments; 

issue
      equity; 

make
      investments; 

create
      liens; 

sell
      assets; 

consolidate,
      merge, or sell all or substantially all
assets; 

enter
      into sale leaseback transactions; 

create
      restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make certain
      payments; or 

enter
      into transactions with affiliates. 

However,
such covenants are subject to a number of important qualifications and
exceptions.  Below we set forth a brief summary of certain of the
restrictive covenants. 

Restrictions
on Additional Debt 

The
limitations on incurrence of debt and issuance of preferred stock contained in
various indentures permit each of the respective notes issuers and its
restricted subsidiaries to incur additional debt or issue preferred stock, so
long as, after giving pro forma effect to the incurrence, the leverage ratio
would be below a specified level for each of the note issuers.  The
leverage ratios for CCH II, CCO Holdings and Charter Operating are as
follows: 

55 

In
addition, regardless of whether the leverage ratio could be met, so long as no
default exists or would result from the incurrence or issuance, each issuer and
their restricted subsidiaries are permitted to issue among other permitted
indebtedness: 

up
      to an amount of debt under credit facilities not otherwise allocated as
      indicated below: 

CCH
      II: $1 billion 

Charter
      Operating: $6.8 billion 

up
      to $75 million of debt incurred to finance the purchase or capital lease
      of new assets; 

up
      to $300 million of additional debt for any purpose;
  and 

other
      items of indebtedness for specific purposes such as intercompany debt,
      refinancing of existing debt, and interest rate swaps to provide
      protection against fluctuation in interest
  rates. 

Indebtedness
under a single facility or agreement may be incurred in part under one of the
categories listed above and in part under another, and generally may also later
be reclassified into another category including as debt incurred under the
leverage ratio.  Accordingly, indebtedness under our credit facilities
is incurred under a combination of the categories of permitted indebtedness
listed above.  The restricted subsidiaries of note issuers are
generally not permitted to issue subordinated debt securities. 

Restrictions
on Distributions 

Generally,
under the various indentures each of the note issuers and their respective
restricted subsidiaries are permitted to pay dividends on or repurchase equity
interests, or make other specified restricted payments, only if the applicable
issuer can incur $1.00 of new debt under the applicable leverage ratio test
after giving effect to the transaction and if no default exists or would exist
as a consequence of such incurrence.  If those conditions are met,
restricted payments may be made in a total amount of up to the following amounts
for the applicable issuer as indicated below: 

CCH
      II:  the sum of 100% of CCH II s Consolidated EBITDA, as defined,
      minus 1.3 times its Consolidated Interest Expense, as defined,
      cumulatively from October 1, 2009 plus 100% of new cash and appraised
      non-cash equity proceeds received by CCH II and not allocated to certain
      investments, cumulatively from November 30,
  2009; 

CCO
      Holdings:  the sum of 100% of CCO Holdings  Consolidated EBITDA,
      as defined, minus 1.3 times its Consolidated Interest Expense, as defined,
      plus 100% of new cash and appraised non-cash equity proceeds received by
      CCO Holdings and not allocated to certain investments, cumulatively from
      October 1, 2003, plus $100 million;
and 

Charter
      Operating:  the sum of 100% of Charter Operating s Consolidated
      EBITDA, as defined, minus 1.3 times its Consolidated Interest Expense, as
      defined, plus 100% of new cash and appraised non-cash equity proceeds
      received by Charter Operating and not allocated to certain investments,
      cumulatively from April 1, 2004, plus $100
  million. 

In
addition, each of the note issuers may make distributions or restricted
payments, so long as no default exists or would be caused by transactions among
other distributions or restricted payments: 

to
      repurchase management equity interests in amounts not to exceed $10
      million per fiscal year; 

regardless
      of the existence of any default, to pay pass-through tax liabilities in
      respect of ownership of equity interests in the applicable issuer or its
      restricted subsidiaries; or 

to
      make other specified restricted payments including merger fees up to 1.25%
      of the transaction value, repurchases using concurrent new issuances, and
      certain dividends on existing subsidiary preferred equity
      interests. 

Each of
CCO Holdings and Charter Operating and their respective restricted subsidiaries
may make distributions or restricted payments:  (i) so long as certain
defaults do not exist and even if the applicable leverage test referred to above
is not met, to enable certain of its parents to pay interest on certain of their
indebtedness or (ii) so long as the applicable issuer could incur $1.00 of
indebtedness under the applicable leverage ratio test referred to above, to
enable certain of its parents to purchase, redeem or refinance certain
indebtedness. 

56 

Restrictions
on Investments 

Each of
the note issuers and their respective restricted subsidiaries may not make
investments except (i) permitted investments or (ii) if, after giving effect to
the transaction, their leverage would be above the applicable leverage
ratio. 

Permitted
investments include, among others: 

investments
      in and generally among restricted subsidiaries or by restricted
      subsidiaries in the applicable
issuer; 

For
      CCH II: 

investments
      aggregating up to $650 million at any time
  outstanding; 

investments
      aggregating up to 100% of new cash equity proceeds received by CCH II
      since November 30, 2009 to the extent the proceeds have not been allocated
      to the restricted payments
covenant; 

For
      CCO Holdings: 

investments
      aggregating up to $750 million at any time
  outstanding; 

investments
      aggregating up to 100% of new cash equity proceeds received by CCO
      Holdings since November 10, 2003 to the extent the proceeds have not been
      allocated to the restricted payments
covenant; 

For
      Charter Operating: 

investments
      aggregating up to $750 million at any time
  outstanding; 

investments
      aggregating up to 100% of new cash equity proceeds received by CCO
      Holdings since April 27, 2004 to the extent the proceeds have not been
      allocated to the restricted payments
covenant. 

Restrictions
on Liens 

Charter
Operating and its restricted subsidiaries are not permitted to grant liens
senior to the liens securing the Charter Operating notes, other than permitted
liens, on their assets to secure indebtedness or other obligations, if, after
giving effect to such incurrence, the senior secured leverage ratio (generally,
the ratio of obligations secured by first priority liens to four times EBITDA,
as defined, for the most recent fiscal quarter for which internal financial
reports are available) would exceed 3.75 to 1.0.  The restrictions on
liens for each of the other note issuers only applies to liens on assets of the
issuers themselves and does not restrict liens on assets of
subsidiaries.  With respect to all of the note issuers, permitted
liens include liens securing indebtedness and other obligations under credit
facilities (subject to specified limitations in the case of Charter Operating),
liens securing the purchase price of financed new assets, liens securing
indebtedness of up to $50 million and other specified liens. 

Restrictions
on the Sale of Assets; Mergers 

The note
issuers are generally not permitted to sell all or substantially all of their
assets or merge with or into other companies unless their leverage ratio after
any such transaction would be no greater than their leverage ratio immediately
prior to the transaction, or unless after giving effect to the transaction,
leverage would be below the applicable leverage ratio for the applicable issuer,
no default exists, and the surviving entity is a U.S. entity that assumes the
applicable notes. 

The note
issuers and their restricted subsidiaries may generally not otherwise sell
assets or, in the case of restricted subsidiaries, issue equity interests, in
excess of $100 million unless they receive consideration at least equal to the
fair market value of the assets or equity interests, consisting of at least 75%
in cash, assumption of liabilities, securities converted into cash within 60
days, or productive assets.  The note issuers and their restricted
subsidiaries are then required within 365 days after any asset sale either to
use or commit to use the net cash proceeds over a specified threshold to acquire
assets used or useful in their businesses or use the net cash proceeds to repay
specified debt, or to offer to repurchase the issuer s notes with any remaining
proceeds. 

Restrictions
on Sale and Leaseback Transactions 

The note
issuers and their restricted subsidiaries may generally not engage in sale and
leaseback transactions unless, at the time of the transaction, the applicable
issuer could have incurred secured indebtedness under its leverage ratio test in
an amount equal to the present value of the net rental payments to be made under
the lease, and the sale of the assets and application of proceeds is permitted
by the covenant restricting asset sales. 

57 

Prohibitions
on Restricting Dividends 

The note
issuers  restricted subsidiaries may generally not enter into arrangements
involving restrictions on their ability to make dividends or distributions or
transfer assets to the applicable note issuer unless those restrictions with
respect to financing arrangements are on terms that are no more restrictive than
those governing the credit facilities existing when they entered into the
applicable indentures or are not materially more restrictive than customary
terms in comparable financings and will not materially impair the applicable
note issuers  ability to make payments on the notes. 

Affiliate
Transactions 

The
indentures also restrict the ability of the note issuers and their restricted
subsidiaries to enter into certain transactions with affiliates involving
consideration in excess of $15 million without a determination by the board of
directors of the applicable note issuer   that the transaction
complies with this covenant, or transactions with affiliates involving over $50
million without receiving an opinion as to the fairness to the holders of such
transaction from a financial point of view issued by an accounting, appraisal or
investment banking firm of national standing. 

Cross
Acceleration 

The
indentures of our subsidiaries include various events of default, including
cross acceleration provisions.  Under these provisions, a failure by
any of the issuers or any of their restricted subsidiaries to pay at the final
maturity thereof the principal amount of other indebtedness having a principal
amount of $100 million or more (or any other default under any such indebtedness
resulting in its acceleration) would result in an event of default under the
indenture governing the applicable notes.  As a result, an event of
default related to the failure to repay principal at maturity or the
acceleration of the indebtedness under the CCH II notes, CCO Holdings notes, CCO
Holdings credit facility, Charter Operating notes or the Charter Operating
credit facilities could cause cross-defaults under our subsidiaries 
indentures. 

Recently Issued Accounting
Standards  

In March
2009, the FASB issued guidance included in ASC 470-20,  Debt -   Debt with Conversion and Other
Options  ( ASC 470-20 ), which applies to entities that enter into
share-lending arrangements on their own shares in contemplation of a convertible
debt offering or other financing.  This guidance included in ASC
470-20 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 14, 2009 and
interim periods within those fiscal years.  We will adopt this
guidance included in ASC 470-20 effective January 1, 2010.  We do not
expect that the adoption of this guidance included in ASC 470-20 will have a
material impact on our financial statements. 

In
October 2009, the FASB issued guidance included in ASC 605-25,  Revenue Recognition  
Multiple-Element Arrangements  ( ASC 605-25 ), which requires entities to
allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices of the
delivered goods and services based on a selling price hierarchy.  The
guidance eliminates the residual method of revenue allocation and requires
revenue to be allocated using the relative selling price method.  This
guidance included in ASC 605-25 should be applied on a prospective basis for
revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years
beginning on or after June 15, 2010.  We will adopt this guidance
included in ASC 605-25 effective January 1, 2011.  We do not expect
the adoption of this guidance included in ASC 605-25 will have a material impact
on our financial statements. 

We do not
believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective accounting
pronouncements, if adopted, would have a material effect on our accompanying
financial statements. 

Item 7A.    Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  

Interest Rate
Risk  

We are
exposed to various market risks, including fluctuations in interest
rates.  We have used interest rate swap agreements  to manage our interest
costs and reduce our exposure to increases in floating interest
rates .  Our policy is to manage our exposure to fluctuations in
interest rates by maintaining a mix of fixed and variable rate debt within a
targeted range. 

Upon
filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the counterparties to the interest rate swap
agreements terminated the underlying contracts and, upon emergence from
bankruptcy, received payment of $495 million for the market value of

58 

the
interest rate swap agreements as measured on the date the counterparties
terminated plus accrued interest.  We do not hold any derivative
financial instruments as of December 31, 2009.   

As of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, our total debt was approximately $13.3 billion
and $21.7 billion, respectively.  As of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
the weighted average interest rate on the credit facility debt was approximately
2.6% and 5.5%, respectively, the weighted average interest rate on the
high-yield notes was approximately 10.4% and 10.4%, respectively, and the
weighted average interest rate on the convertible senior notes was approximately
6.5% as of December 31, 2008, resulting in a blended weighted average interest
rate of 5.5% and 8.4%, respectively.  The interest rate on
approximately 37% and 80% of the total principal amount of our debt was
effectively fixed, including the effects of our interest rate hedge agreements,
as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

The table
set forth below summarizes the fair values and contract terms of financial
instruments subject to interest rate risk maintained by us as of December 31,
2009 (dollars in millions): 

Interest
rates on variable debt are estimated using the average implied forward LIBOR for
the year of maturity based on the yield curve in effect at December 31, 2009
including applicable bank spread. 

At
December 31, 2008, we had outstanding $4.3 billion in notional amounts of
interest rate swap agreements outstanding.  The notional amounts of
interest rate instruments do not represent amounts exchanged by the parties and,
thus, are not a measure of exposure to credit loss.  The amounts
exchanged were determined by reference to the notional amount and the other
terms of the contracts. 

Item 8.    Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.  

Our
consolidated financial statements, the related notes thereto, and the reports of
independent accountants are included in this annual report beginning on page
F-1. 

Item 9.    Changes in and
Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure.  

None. 

Item
9A.   Controls and
Procedures.  

Conclusion
Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

As of the
end of the period covered by this report, under the supervision and with the
participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, we have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and
operation of our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to the
information generated for use in this annual report.  The evaluation
was based in part upon reports and certifications provided by a number of
executives.  Based upon, and as of the date of that evaluation, our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the
disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable
assurances that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file or
submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and
forms. 

In
designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, our management
recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and
operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance of achieving the
desired control objectives, and management necessarily was required to apply its
judgment in  

59 

evaluating
the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and
procedures.  Based upon the above evaluation, we believe that our
controls provide such reasonable assurances. 

There was
no change in our internal control over financial reporting during the fourth
quarter of 2009 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 

Management s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

Our
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the
Exchange Act) for the Company.  Our internal control system was
designed to provide reasonable assurance to Charter s management and board of
directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial
statements. 

Management
has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2009.  In making this assessment, we used the
criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission ( COSO ) in  Internal Control     Integrated Framework  .   Based on
management s assessment utilizing these criteria we believe that, as of December
31, 2009, our internal control over financial reporting was effective .  

Our
independent auditors, KPMG LLP, have audited our internal control over financial
reporting as stated in their report on page F-2. 

Item
9B.   Other
Information.  

None. 

60 

PART
III 

Item 10.   Directors, Executive
Officers and Corporate Governance.  

Directors  

The
persons listed below are directors of Charter. 

Directors  

Position(s)  

Robert
      Cohn 

Director 

W.
      Lance Conn  

Director 

Darren
      Glatt   

Director 

Bruce
      A. Karsh   

Director 

John
      D. Markley, Jr.   

Director 

William
      L. McGrath   

Director 

David
      C. Merritt 

Director 

Neil
      Smit   

Director,
      President and Chief Executive Officer (until February 28,
      2010) 

Christopher
      M. Temple   

Director 

Eric
      L. Zinterhofer   

Chairman
      of the Board of Directors 

Robert Cohn , 60, was elected
to the board of directors of Charter on December 1, 2009.  Most
recently, Mr. Cohn has served as an independent investor and advisor to growing
companies.  From 2002 to 2004, Mr. Cohn was a partner with Sequoia
Capital, a high-tech venture capital firm in Silicon Valley.  Mr. Cohn
was the founder of Octel Communications Corporation and was the company s
Chairman and CEO from its inception in 1982 until it was purchased by Lucent
Technologies in 1997.  Mr. Cohn has served on various boards of public
and private companies, including Octel, Trimble Navigation, Electronic Arts,
Digital Domain, Ashford.com and Blue Lithium. Mr. Cohn currently serves on the
board of directors of Right Hemisphere, Market Live and Taboola and is a Trustee
of Robert Ballard s Ocean Exploration Trust.  Mr. Cohn holds a
Bachelor of Science degree in Mathematics and Computer Science from the
University of Florida and an MBA from Stanford University.  We believe
Mr. Cohn's qualifications to sit on our board include his experience as an
executive and director. 

W. Lance Conn , 41, was
elected to the board of directors of Charter on November 30,
2009.  Mr. Conn previously served on Charter s board of directors
since September 2004.  From July 2004 to May 2009, Mr. Conn served as
the President of Vulcan Capital, the investment arm of Vulcan,
Inc.    Prior to joining Vulcan Inc., Mr. Conn was employed
by America Online, Inc., an interactive online services company, from March 1996
to May 2003. From September 1994 to February 1996, Mr. Conn was an attorney with
Shaw, Pittman, Potts   Trowbrige LLP in Washington, D.C.  Mr. Conn
is a director of Plains All American Pipeline, L.P., Plains GP Holdings, L.P.
and Vulcan Energy Corporation, where he previously served as
chairman.  Mr. Conn also serves as an advisory director to Makena
Capital Management and an advisor to Global Endowment Management. Mr. Conn
served as an officer of Charter Investment, Inc. prior to and during the time of
its Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings filed concurrently with Charter's Chapter
11 proceedings.    We believe Mr. Conn's qualifications to
sit on our board include his experience in the media business and as a
director. 

Darren Glatt , 34, was elected
to the board of directors of Charter on November 30, 2009.  Mr. Glatt
is a Principal at Apollo Management, L.P. and has been with Apollo since
2006.  Prior to joining Apollo, Mr. Glatt was a member of the Media
Group at Apax Partners from 2004 to 2006, a member of the Media Group at the
Cypress Group from 2000 to 2002, and a member of the Mergers   Acquisitions
Group at Bear, Stearns   Co. from 1998 to 2000.  We believe Mr.
Glatt's qualifications to sit on our board include his experience in media,
banking and investments industries. 

Bruce A. Karsh , 54, was
elected to the board of directors of Charter on November 30,
2009.  Since 1995, Mr. Karsh has served as President and co-founder of
Oaktree Capital Management, L.P., formerly Oaktree Capital Management, L.P., a
Los Angeles-based investment management firm.  Prior to co-founding
Oaktree, Mr. Karsh was a Managing Director of Trust Company of the West ( TCW )
and its affiliate, TCW Asset Management Company, and the portfolio manager of
the Special Credits Funds for seven years.  Prior to joining TCW, Mr. Karsh

61 

worked as
Assistant to the Chairman of Sun Life Insurance Company of America and of
SunAmerica, Inc., its parent.  Prior to that, he was an attorney with the
law firm of O Melveny   Myers.  Mr. Karsh holds an A.B. degree in
Economics from Duke University and a J.D. from the University of Virginia School
of Law.  Mr. Karsh serves as the Chairman of the Board of Directors for
Duke University s investment management company and serves as a director of
Oaktree Capital Group, LLC, LBI Media Holdings, Inc. and LBI Media,
Inc.  During the last five years, Mr. Karsh has also served as a
director of Littelfuse, Inc.  We believe Mr. Karsh's qualifications to
sit on our board include his business and investment
experience.  

John D. Markley, Jr. , 44, was
elected to the board of directors of Charter on November 30,
2009.  Since 1996, Mr. Markley has been affiliated with Columbia
Capital, a communications, media and technology investment firm, where he has
served in a number of capacities, including portfolio company executive, general
partner and venture partner.  Prior to joining Columbia Capital, Mr.
Markley served at the Federal Communications Commission, where he developed U.S.
Government wireless communications and spectrum auction policy. He also held
positions in corporate finance for Kidder, Peabody   Co. in both New York
City and Hong Kong.  Mr. Markley is a director of Telecom Transport
Management, Inc., Broadsoft Inc., and Millennial Media, Inc.  He
received a B.A. degree from Washington and Lee University and an MBA from
Harvard University.  We believe Mr. Markley's qualifications to sit on
our board include his experience in the telecommunications and media
industries. 

William L. McGrath , 46, was
elected to the board of directors of Charter on November 30,
2009.  Since October 2007, Mr. McGrath has served as the Executive
Vice President and General Counsel of Vulcan Inc.  In connection with
this position, Mr. McGrath has served and continues to serve as a director
and/or officer of a number of companies affiliated with Vulcan,
Inc.  From 2005 through October 2007, Mr. McGrath held the position of
Senior Vice President and General Counsel at Hands-On Mobile
Inc.  From 2003 through 2005, Mr. McGrath was a Director in the Legal
Department of NVIDIA Corp.  From 2002 through 2003, he served as Vice
President and General Counsel at Vitria Technology.  Mr. McGrath holds
an undergraduate degree from Claremont McKenna College and a law degree from The
University of Chicago Law School.  Mr. McGrath is a director of
TowerCo.  Mr. McGrath served as an officer of Charter Investment, Inc.
prior to and during the time of its Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings filed
concurrently with Charter's Chapter 11 proceedings.  We believe Mr.
McGrath's qualifications to sit on our board include his business
experience. 

David C. Merritt  ,  55, was elected to the board
of directors of Charter on December 15, 2009, and was also appointed as Chairman
of Charter s Audit Committee at that time. Mr. Merritt previously served on
Charter's board and Audit Committee since 2003.   Effective March
2009, he is the president of BC Partners, Inc., a financial advisory
firm.  From October 2007 to March 2009, Mr. Merritt served as
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of iCRETE, LLC. From October
2003 to September 2007, Mr. Merritt was a Managing Director of Salem
Partners, LLC, an investment banking firm. Mr. Merritt is a director of Outdoor
Channel Holdings, Inc. and of Calpine Corporation and currently serves as
Chairman of the Audit Committee of each company.  He is also a
director of Buffet Holdings, Inc.  From 1975 to 1999, Mr. Merritt
was an audit and consulting partner of KPMG serving in a variety of capacities
during his years with the firm, including national partner in charge of the
media and entertainment practice. Mr. Merritt holds a Bachelor of Science
degree in Business and Accounting from California State University  
Northridge.  We believe Mr. Merritt's qualifications to sit on our
board include his many years of experience with a major accounting firm, as a
director and audit committee member, and in the media industry. 

Neil Smit , 51, was elected to
the board of directors of Charter on November 30, 2009.  Mr. Smit has
served as a director and President and Chief Executive Officer of Charter since
August 2005. He has resigned his positions with Charter, effective as of
February 28, 2010.  Prior to joining Charter, Mr. Smit worked at Time
Warner, Inc. in various capacities, most recently serving as the President of
Time Warner s America Online Access Business. He also served at America Online
( AOL ) as Executive Vice President, Member Development, Chief Operating Officer
of AOL Local and Chief Operating Officer of MapQuest.  Prior to that
Mr. Smit was a Regional President with Nabisco and was with Pillsbury in a
number of management positions.  From December 2004 until August 2005,
Mr. Smit was a director of America Online Latin America, Inc., which company
filed for bankruptcy in June 2005.  We believe that Mr. Smit's
qualifications to sit on our board include his many years of experience as an
executive and in the media industry. 

Christopher M. Temple , 42,
was elected to the board of directors of Charter on November 30,
2009.  From September 2008 to December 2009, Mr. Temple was affiliated
with Vulcan Inc., most recently as President of Vulcan Capital and Executive
Vice President, Investment Management for Vulcan
Inc.   Previously, Mr. Temple served as a managing director at
Tailwind Capital from May 2008 to August 2008. Prior to joining Tailwind, Mr.
Temple was a Managing Director at Friend Skoler   Company from May 2005 to
May 2008, and was a partner and Managing Director at Thayer Capital Partners
from 1996 through 2004.  From 1989 to 1993, Mr. Temple worked as

62 

a staff
accountant in both the audit and tax departments for KPMG LLP and held a CPA
certification during that time.  Mr. Temple is a director of Plains
All American GP LLC, the managing general partner of Plains All American
Pipeline, L.P. as well as a director of Vulcan Energy GP Holdings and Vulcan
Energy Corporation.  Mr. Temple holds a BBA, magna cum laude, from the
University of Texas at Austin and an MBA from Harvard.  We believe Mr.
Temple's qualifications to sit on our board include his experience as an
investor and in the accounting profession. 

Eric L. Zinterhofer , 38, was
elected to the board of directors of Charter on November 30, 2009 and as
non-executive Chairman of the board on December 1, 2009. Mr. Zinterhofer serves
as a senior partner at Apollo Management, L.P. and has been with Apollo since
1998. From 1994 to 1996, Mr. Zinterhofer was a member of the Corporate Finance
Department at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter   Co.  From 1993 to 1994,
Mr. Zinterhofer was a member of the Structured Equity Group at J.P. Morgan
Investment Management.  Mr. Zinterhofer is a director of Affinion
Group, Inc., Central European Media Enterprises Ltd., Dish TV India Ltd., and
Unity MediaSCA.  In the past five years, Mr. Zinterhofer was a
director of iPCS, Inc.  We believe Mr. Zinterhofer's qualifications to sit
on our board include his experience as a director and in the banking and
investment industries. 

Board
of Directors and Committees of the Board of Directors 

Upon
Charter's emergence from its Chapter 11 proceedings on November 30, 2009, a new
board of directors was appointed pursuant to the Plan consisting of W. Lance
Conn, Bruce A. Karsh, Darren Glatt, John D. Markley, Jr., William L. McGrath,
Neil Smit, Christopher M. Temple and Eric L. Zinterhofer.  Robert Cohn
and David C. Merritt were subsequently appointed to the board of directors in
December 2009.  Charter's board of directors was made up of the
following individuals during the calendar year of 2009 preceding Charter's
emergence from its Chapter 11 proceedings:  Paul Allen, Jo Lynn Allen,
W. Lance Conn, Rajive Johri, Robert P. May, David C. Merritt, Neil Smit, John H.
Tory and Larry W. Wangberg. 

Our board
of directors meets regularly throughout the year on an established schedule. The
board also holds special meetings and acts by written consent from time to time
as necessary. 

The board
of directors delegates authority to act with respect to certain matters to board
committees whose members are appointed by the board. The committees of the board
of directors include the following: Audit Committee, Compensation and Benefits
Committee, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. 

Charter s
Audit Committee, which has a written charter approved by the board, consists of
Messrs. Merritt and Temple.  Mr. Merritt is Chairman of the Audit
Committee.  The Audit Committee of the prior board of directors
consisted of Messrs. Tory, Johri and Merritt. A copy of the Audit
Committee s charter is available on our website, www.charter.com. Charter's
board of directors has determined that, in its judgment, Messrs. Merritt and
Temple are audit committee financial experts within the meaning of the
applicable federal regulations. All members of the Audit Committee were
determined by the board in 2009 to be independent in accordance with the listing
standards of the NASDAQ Global Select Market. 

Nomination
and Qualifications of Directors 

Pursuant
to our Plan, the Successor's initial board of directors may be comprised of up
to 11 members.   Each holder of 10% or more of the beneficial
voting power of the Successor on November 30, 2009 had the right to appoint one
member of the initial board of directors for each 10% of the Class A common
stock beneficial voting power held.  Those holders and their
appointees were and are:  Funds affiliated with AP Charter Holdings,
L.P.   Messrs. Zinterhofer and Glatt; Oaktree Opportunities Investments, L.P.  
Mr. Karsh; and Funds advised by Franklin Advisers, Inc.   Mr.
Cohn.  Mr. Allen had the right to appoint four board members of the
initial board of directors and appointed Messrs. Conn, Markley, McGrath and
Temple.  Pursuant to the Plan, Mr. Smit was also appointed to serve on
the initial board of directors. Members of the Successor's initial board of
directors will serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders which will
not be held until at least 12 months following the Effective
Date.  Thereafter, for as long as shares of the new Charter Class B
common stock are outstanding, holders of the new Charter Class B common stock
will have the right to elect 35% of the members of the board of directors
(rounded up to the nearest whole number), and all other members of the board of
directors will be elected by majority vote of the holders of the new Charter
Class A common stock and new Charter preferred stock, voting together as a
single class. 

Candidates
for director are nominated by the board of directors, based on the
recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance
Committee.  The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee members
are Messrs. Karsh, Markley and McGrath.  Mr. Karsh is Chairman of the
Committee.  Charter's Corporate Governance  

63 

Guidelines
provide that, among other things, that candidates for new board members to be
considered by the Charter s board of directors should be individuals from
diverse business and professional backgrounds with unquestioned high ethical
standards and professional achievement, knowledge and experience. Candidates
should include diversity of gender, race and national origin, education,
professional experience and differences in viewpoints and skills. The Nominating
and Corporate Governance Committee does not have a formal policy with respect to
diversity; however, the board of directors and the Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee believe that it is essential that board members represent
diverse viewpoints. In considering candidates for the Board, the Nominating and
Corporate Governance Committee considers the entirety of each candidate s
credentials in the context of these standards. In addition, director candidates
must be individuals with the time and commitment necessary to perform the duties
of a board member and other special skills that complement or supplement the
skill sets of current directors. 

Mr. Smit,
President and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), has served as Charter's President
and CEO for the last four and one-half years, including guiding Charter through
its successful restructuring in bankruptcy.  Mr. Merritt, elected by
the other members of the board as a financial expert and member of the Audit
Committee, has previously been Chair of Charter's Audit Committee, as well as
other public companies, and was previously a partner at KPMG.  As
noted above, four members of the board were elected by Mr. Allen and four
members elected by other 10% beneficial holders of the new Charter's Class A
common stock.  See the directors' biographies above for specific
information concerning their experience and qualifications. 

Stockholders
may nominate persons to be directors by following the procedures set forth in
our bylaws. These procedures require the stockholder to deliver timely notice to
the Corporate Secretary at our principal executive offices. That notice must
contain the information required by the bylaws about the stockholder proposing
the nominee and about the nominee.  The Plan provides that there will
be no annual stockholder meeting for at least 12 months following the Effective
Date.  No annual meeting of stockholders of Charter is planned in
2010. 

Executive
Officers  

Our
executive officers, listed below, are elected by the board of directors
annually, and each serves until his or her successor is elected and qualified or
until his or her earlier resignation or removal.  Each individual
listed below served as an executive officer of Charter during the pendency of
its Chapter 11 cases. 

Executive Officers  

Position(s)  

Neil
      Smit                                                                    

President
      and Chief Executive Officer (until February 28, 2010) 

Michael
      J.
      Lovett                                                                    

Executive
      Vice President and Chief Operating Officer (Interim President and Chief
      Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer as of February 28,
      2010) 

Eloise
      E.
      Schmitz                                                                    

Executive
      Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Gregory
      L.  Doody                                                                    

Executive
      Vice President and General Counsel 

Marwan
      Fawaz                                                                    

Executive
      Vice President and Chief Technology Officer 

Ted
      W.
      Schremp                                                                    

Executive
      Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer 

Joshua
      L. Jamison 

President,
      East Operations 

Steven
      E. Apodaca 

President,
      West Operations 

Kevin
      D.
      Howard                                                                    

Senior
      Vice President- Finance, Controller  and Chief   Accounting
      Officer 

Michael J. Lovett  ,  48,
 Executive Vice President and
Chief Operating   Officer.   Mr. Lovett
was promoted to his current position in April 2005. He will become Interim
President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer upon Mr.
Smit's resignation on February 28, 2010.  Prior to that, he served as
Executive Vice President, Operations and Customer Care from September 2004
through March 2005; as Senior Vice President, Midwest Division Operations;
and as Senior Vice President of Operations Support, since joining Charter in
August 2003 through September 2004. Mr. Lovett was Chief Operating Officer
of Voyant Technologies, Inc., a voice conferencing hardware/software solutions
provider, from December 2001 to August 2003. From November 2000 to December
2001, he was Executive Vice President of Operations for OneSecure, Inc., a
startup company delivering management/monitoring of firewalls and virtual
private networks. Prior to that, Mr. Lovett was Regional Vice  

64 

President
at AT T from June 1999 to November 2000 where he was responsible for
operations. Mr. Lovett was Regional Operating Vice President on and after
October 1989 at Jones Intercable and became Senior Vice President at that
company in 1997 and continued in that position to June 1999. 

Eloise E. Schmitz , 45,  Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer .  Ms. Schmitz was promoted to her current
position in July 2008.  Ms. Schmitz has been employed in several
management positions with Charter since July 1998, when she joined as Vice
President, Finance   Acquisitions and Assistant Secretary.  Prior
to joining Charter, Ms. Schmitz served as Vice President, Group Manager, of the
Franchise and Communications Group for Mercantile Bank, now US Bank, in St.
Louis from 1992 to 1998.  Ms. Schmitz received a bachelor's degree in
Finance from Tulane University. 

Gregory L. Doody , 45,  Executive Vice President and General
Counsel .  Mr. Doody was appointed to his current position on
December 1, 2009.  Prior to that, he served as Charter's Chief
Restructuring Officer and Senior Counsel in connection with its Chapter 11
proceedings being appointed on March 25, 2009.  Prior to coming to
work for Charter, Mr. Doody served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel
and Secretary of Calpine Corporation from July 2006 through August
2008.  Calpine Corporation filed a petition under Chapter 11 of
the Bankruptcy Code in December 2005.  From July 2003 through July
2006, Mr. Doody held various positions at HealthSouth Corporation, including
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Mr. Doody earned a J.D.
degree from Emory University School of Law and received a bachelor's degree in
management from Tulane University.  Mr. Doody is a certified public
accountant. 

Marwan Fawaz , 47,  Executive Vice President and Chief
Technology   Officer.   Mr. Fawaz
joined Charter in his current position in August 2006. Prior to that, he served
as Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer for Adelphia Communications
Corporation ( Adelphia ) from March 2003 until July 2006. Adelphia filed a
petition under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in June 2002.  From
May 2002 to March 2003, he served as Investment Specialist/Technology Analyst
for Vulcan, Inc. Mr. Fawaz served as Regional Vice President of Operations
for the Northwest Region for Charter from July 2001 to March 2002. From July
2000 to December 2000, he served as Chief Technology Officer for Infinity
Broadband. He served as Vice President   Engineering and Operations at
MediaOne, Inc. from January 1996 to June 2000. Mr. Fawaz received a B.S.
degree in electrical engineering and a M.S. in
electrical/communication-engineering from California State University  
Long Beach. 

Ted W. Schremp , 38,  Executive Vice President and Chief
Marketing   Officer.   Mr.
Schremp was promoted to his current position in July 2008.  Prior to that,
he served as Senior Vice President, Product Management and Strategy from
February 2008 to June 2008 and Senior Vice President and General Manager of
Charter Telephone from October 2005 to February 2008. Mr. Schremp joined Charter
as Vice President of IP Product Management in May 2005.  He served as
Segment Manager for Hewlett-Packard from February 2001 to May 2005, where he
co-founded its Cable, Media and Entertainment division.  Mr. Schremp
graduated from the University of Pittsburgh with a double-major in economics and
business and earned an M.B.A. from Penn State University. 

Joshua L. Jamison , 54,  President, East
Operations .  Mr. Jamison was promoted to his current position
in July 2006.  He joined Charter in May 1999 as Vice President of
Operations for Charter's former Northeast Region and was promoted to divisional
leadership in January 2003.  Prior to joining Charter, Mr. Jamison
held several management positions during his 18 years at Time Warner
Cable.  Mr. Jamison received a bachelor s degree in human development
from the University of Nebraska at Lincoln and a master s degree in business
administration from the University of New Haven. 

Steven E. Apodaca , 43,  President, West
Operations .  Mr. Apodaca was promoted to his current position
in December 2008.  Prior to that, he served as Vice President of
Operations Support from September 2005 to December 2008, Interim President of
the former West Division from February 2007 to May 2007 and Interim Senior Vice
President   Operations for the former Great Lakes Division from April 2005 to
September 2005.  Mr. Apodaca joined Charter as Vice President of
Marketing for the former Great Lakes Division in 2003.  Prior to
joining Charter, Mr. Apodaca served as Senior Director of Marketing for nCUBE
from 2002 to 2003 and Executive Director of Marketing for AT T Broadband
from 1998 to 2002.  Mr. Apodaca received a B.S. degree in marketing
and an M.B.A from Colorado State University. 

Kevin D. Howard , 40,  Senior   Vice President - Finance, Controller
and Chief Accounting   Officer.   Mr. Howard
was promoted to his current position in December 2009, previously serving as
Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since April 2006. Prior
to that, he served as Vice President of Finance from April 2003 until April 2006
and as Director of Financial Reporting since joining Charter in April 2002.
Mr. Howard began his career at Arthur Andersen LLP in 1993 where he held a
number of positions in the audit division prior to leaving in April

65 

2002.
Mr. Howard received a bachelor's degree in finance and economics from the
University of Missouri   Columbia and is a certified public accountant and
certified managerial accountant. 

Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance  

Section 16
of the Exchange Act requires our directors and certain of our officers, and
persons who own more than 10% of our common stock, to file initial reports of
ownership and reports of changes in ownership with the SEC during 2009. Such
persons are required by SEC regulation to furnish us with copies of all Section
16(a) forms they file. Based solely on our review of the copies of such forms
furnished to us and written representations from these officers and directors,
we believe that all Section 16(a) filing requirements were met in
2009. 

Code of Ethics  

Charter
has adopted a Code of Conduct that constitutes a Code of Ethics within the
meaning of federal securities regulations for our employees, including all
executive officers, and established a hotline and website for reporting alleged
violations of the code of conduct, established procedures for processing
complaints and implemented educational programs to inform our employees
regarding the Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct is posted on Charter's
website at www.charter.com. 

Board
Leadership Structure 

We
separate the roles of CEO and Chairman of the board in recognition of the
differences between the two roles. The CEO is responsible for setting the
strategic direction for the Company and the day to day leadership and
performance of the Company, while the Chairman of the board provides guidance to
the CEO and presides over meetings of the full Board. We could decide to combine
these positions in the future. 

Item 11.   Executive
Compensation.  

Report
of the Compensation and Benefits Committee 

The
following report does not constitute soliciting materials and is not considered
filed or incorporated by reference into any other filing under the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
unless we specifically state otherwise. 

The
Compensation and Benefits Committee has reviewed and discussed with management
the Compensation Discussion and Analysis ("CD A") set forth below including
the accompanying tables.  The Compensation and Benefits Committee
recommended to the board of directors that the CD A be included in our 2009
Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

ERIC
ZINTERHOFER 

      W. LANCE
CONN 

      ROBERT
COHN 

Compensation
Discussion and Analysis 

Overview 

The
following discussion and analysis of compensation arrangements of our Named
Executive Officers (including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial
Officer, and other executive officers appearing in the Summary Compensation
Table) in 2007, 2008 and 2009 should be read together with the compensation
tables and related disclosures set forth elsewhere in this proxy
statement.  Charter's Compensation and Benefits Committee consists of
Messrs. Conn (Chairman), Cohn and Zinterhofer.  The Compensation and
Benefits Committee of the board of directors prior to our emergence from
bankruptcy consisted of Messrs. Allen, May and Merritt. 

Role
of the Compensation and Benefits Committee 

The
Compensation and Benefits Committee of our board of directors is responsible for
overseeing our overall compensation structure, policies and programs and
assessing whether our compensation structure results in appropriate compensation
levels and incentives for executive management and employees. 

66 

Our CEO
annually reviews the performance of each of the other Named Executive Officers.
He recommends to the Compensation and Benefits Committee salary adjustments,
annual cash bonuses and equity incentive compensation applying specific
performance metrics that have been approved by the Compensation and Benefits
Committee at the beginning of each year for the other Named Executive
Officers.  The Compensation and Benefits Committee has, on occasion,
requested certain executives to be present at Compensation and Benefits
Committee meetings where executive compensation and Charter and individual
performance are discussed and evaluated. These executives are invited for the
purpose of providing insight or suggestions regarding executive performance
objectives and/or achievements, and the overall competitiveness and
effectiveness of our executive compensation program. Although the Compensation
and Benefits Committee considers the CEO s recommendations along with analysis
provided by the Compensation and Benefits Committee s compensation consultants,
it retains full discretion to set all compensation for our Named Executive
Officers, except that the Compensation and Benefits Committee s recommendations
for the CEO s compensation goes before Charter's full board of directors, with
non-employee directors voting on the approval of any recommendations, subject to
any employment agreements. 

The
Compensation and Benefits Committee has the discretion to directly engage the
services of a compensation consultant(s) or other advisors. Pearl
Meyer   Partners was retained directly by the Compensation and Benefits
Committee and has conducted a comprehensive assessment of our annual executive
compensation program relative to competitive markets, as well as conducted an
analysis on certain retention strategies for our senior management
team.  In carrying out its assignments, Pearl Meyer   Partners
also interacted with management when necessary and appropriate. Pearl
Meyer   Partners may, in its discretion, seek input and feedback from
management regarding its consulting work product prior to presentation to the
Compensation and Benefits Committee in order to confirm alignment with our
business strategy, and identify data questions or other similar issues, if
any. 

The
Compensation and Benefits Committee also hired Towers Perrin in late 2008 to
review senior management's compensation in the event that a Chapter 11
bankruptcy petition was filed.  Towers Perrin recommended changes to
the Executive Cash Award Plan and the adoption of the Value Creation Plan
described below. 

Compensation
Philosophy and Objectives 

The
Compensation and Benefits Committee believes that attracting and retaining
well-qualified executives is a top priority. The Compensation and Benefits
Committee s approach is to compensate executives commensurate with their
experience, expertise and performance and to ensure that our compensation
programs are competitive with executive pay levels within the cable,
telecommunications, and other related industries that define our competitive
labor markets. We seek to uphold this philosophy through attainment of the
following objectives: 

Pay-for-Performance.   We
seek to ensure that the amount of compensation for each Named Executive Officer
is reflective of the executive s performance and service to us for the time
period under consideration. Our primary measures of performance used to gauge
appropriate levels of performance-based compensation have included revenue,
Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA less capital expenditures, operating cash flow,
operational improvements, customer satisfaction, and/or such other metrics as
the Compensation and Benefits Committee shall determine is then critical to our
long-term success at that time. While we believe that our executives are best
motivated when they believe that their performance objectives are attainable, we
also believe that these metrics should be challenging and represent important
improvements over performance in prior years. Compensation payable pursuant to
our annual Executive Bonus Plan and our Long-Term Incentive Program is dependent
on our performance. 

Alignment.   We seek
to align the interests of the Named Executive Officers with those of our
investors by evaluating executive performance on the basis of the financial
measurements noted above, which we believe closely correlate to long-term
stakeholder value creation. The annual cash bonus and long-term incentives are
intended to align executive compensation with our business strategies, values
and management initiatives, both short- and long-term. Through this incentive
compensation, we place a substantial portion of executive compensation at risk,
specifically dependent upon our financial performance over the relevant periods.
This rewards executives for performance that enhances our financial strength and
stakeholder value. 

Retention.   We
recognize that a key element to our success is our ability to retain a team of
highly-qualified executives who can provide the leadership necessary to
successfully execute our short- and long-term business strategies. We also
recognize that, because of their qualifications, our senior executives are often
presented with other professional opportunities, potentially ones at higher
compensation levels. It is often difficult to retain talented management. Our
retention strategy faces additional challenges in that the skills of our current
management team are attractive to many companies inside and outside of the cable
industry and several members of our management team  

67 

do not
have long-standing ties to the St. Louis area where our headquarters is
located. The following programs underscore our focus on retention. First, the
Executive Cash Award Plan provided for a cash award to be paid at the end of a
pre-determined period, but was modified and cancelled in the first quarter of
2009, as discussed in detail below. Second, a revised Long-Term Incentive
Program was approved in March 2008 and modified in February 2009, and is also
discussed below.  In addition, the Value Creation Plan was approved by
the board of directors in 2009. 

Pay
Levels and Benchmarking 

Pay
levels for executives are determined based on a number of factors, including the
individual s roles and responsibilities within Charter, the individual s
experience and expertise, pay levels for peers within Charter, pay levels in the
marketplace for similar positions, and performance of the individual and Charter
as a whole. In determining these pay levels, the Compensation and Benefits
Committee considers all forms of compensation and benefits. When establishing
the amounts of such compensation, the Compensation and Benefits Committee
considers publicly available information, such as proxy statements, as well as
third-party administered benchmark surveys concerning executive compensation
levels paid by other competitors and in the industry generally. 

With the
assistance of Pearl Meyer   Partners, the Compensation and Benefits
Committee approved a peer group of 10 publicly-traded companies for benchmarking
executive compensation effective for 2009:  Cablevision Systems Corp.,
Comcast Corporation, The DIRECTV Group, Inc., Dish Network group, E.W. Scripps
Company, Embarq Corporation, Global Crossing Ltd., Level 3 Communications,
Inc., Mediacom Communications Corp. and Time Warner Cable Inc.  These
companies include companies in cable, telecommunications or other related
industries of similar size and business strategy. 

In
addition to these specific peer companies, the Compensation and Benefits
Committee also reviews data from a number of published compensation surveys that
provide broader market data for specific functional responsibilities for
companies of similar revenue size to us. 

After
consideration of the data collected on external competitive levels of
compensation and internal relationships within the executive group, the
Compensation and Benefits Committee makes decisions regarding individual
executives  target total compensation opportunities based on the need to
attract, motivate and retain an experienced and effective management
team. 

In light
of our practice of making a relatively high portion of each executive officer s
compensation based on performance ( i.e. , at risk), the
Compensation and Benefits Committee generally examines peer company data at the
50 th 
percentile ( i.e. , the
median) and the 75 th  percentile,
for performance at target and in excess of target, respectively, or for
specialization of a skill set. The Compensation and Benefits Committee generally
sets target compensation for our executive group at the median of the market
data with the opportunity to reach the 75 th  percentile
based on superior performance relative to the criteria above. 

As noted
above, notwithstanding our overall pay positioning objectives, pay opportunities
for specific individuals vary based on a number of factors such as scope of
duties, tenure, experience and expertise, institutional knowledge and/or
difficulty in recruiting a new executive. Actual total compensation in a given
year will vary above or below the target compensation levels based primarily on
the attainment of operating goals and the preservation of stakeholder
value.    Based on
data provided by our outside advisor, target total direct compensation (i.e.
salary, bonus and long-term incentive) is, on average, between median and
75 th 
percentile levels for the Named Executive Officer group, set forth in the
Summary Compensation Table below. 

Pay
Mix 

We
utilize the particular elements of compensation described above because we
believe that it provides a well-proportioned mix of total opportunity, retention
value and at-risk compensation which produces short-term and long-term
performance incentives and rewards. By following this portfolio approach, we
provide the executive a measure of stability in the minimum level of
compensation the executive is eligible to receive, while motivating the
executive to focus on the business metrics and actions that will produce a high
level of performance for Charter, as well as reducing the risk of recruitment of
top executive talent by competitors. 

For key
executives, the mix of compensation is weighted toward at-risk pay (annual
incentives and long-term incentives).   We believe that
maintaining this pay mix results in a fundamental pay-for-performance
orientation for our executives. We also believe that long-term incentives, and
particularly equity compensation, provide a very  

68 

important
motivational and retentive aspect to the compensation package of our key
executives.  Prior to 2009, a portion of an executive's at-risk
compensation was security-oriented compensation, but the equity awarded as
compensation was cancelled as part of the Plan.  We adopted a new
stock incentive plan after emergence from bankruptcy in November 2009 and awards
were made under this new plan in December 2009. 

Implementing
Our Objectives 

The
Compensation and Benefits Committee makes compensation decisions after reviewing
our performance and carefully evaluating an executive s performance during the
year against pre-established goals, leadership qualities, operational
performance, business responsibilities, career with Charter, current
compensation arrangements and long-term potential to enhance stakeholder value.
Specific factors affecting compensation decisions for the Named Executive
Officers include: 

Assessment
      of Company performance    criteria may include revenue,
      adjusted EBITDA, free cash flow, adjusted EBITDA less capital
      expenditures, average revenue per unit, operating cash flow, operational
      improvements, customer satisfaction and/or such other metrics as the
      Compensation and Benefits Committee determine is critical to our long-term
      success. Application of this factor is more specifically discussed under
       Elements Used to Achieve Compensation Objectives  as
      applicable; 

Assessment
      of individual performance    criteria may include individual
      leadership abilities, management expertise, productivity and
      effectiveness. Application of this factor is more specifically discussed
      under  Elements Used to Achieve Compensation Objectives  as
      applicable; and 

Benchmarking
      and Total Compensation Level Review    Our Compensation
      and Benefits Committee works with our compensation consultant to assess
      compensation levels and mix as compared to the market, and is more fully
      discussed below under  Pay Levels and
  Benchmarking.  

Elements
Used to Achieve Compensation Objectives 

The main
components of our compensation program have included: 

Base
      Salary    fixed pay that takes into account an individual s
      role and responsibilities, experience, expertise and individual
      performance designed to provide a base level of compensation stability on
      an annual basis; 

Executive
      Bonus Plan    variable performance-based pay designed to reward
      attainment of annual business goals, with target award opportunities
      generally expressed as a percentage of base
  salary; 

Long-Term
      Incentives    awards historically included stock options,
      performance units/shares and restricted shares designed to motivate
      long-term performance and align executive interests with those of our
      shareholders and, in 2008, awards of "performance cash" were
      added; and 

Special
      Compensation Programs    cash and equity programs targeted at
      executives in critical positions designed to incentivize performance and
      encourage long-term retention. 

Details
of Each Compensation Element 

(1)  Base
salary 

Base
Salaries are set with regard to the level of the position within Charter and the
individual s current and sustained performance results. The Base Salary levels
for executives, and any changes in those salary levels, are reviewed each year
by the Compensation and Benefits Committee, and such adjustments may be based on
factors such as new roles and/or responsibilities assumed by the executive and
the executive s significant impact on our then current goals.  Salary
adjustments may also be based on changes in market pay levels for comparable
positions in our competitive markets .   Base Salaries are
reviewed and adjusted with regard to (a) market competitive Base Salary levels
and increases, (b) the employee s impact on and contributions to the business
performance, and (c) company-wide total salary increase budgets.  No
Named Executive Officer received a Base Salary increase in 2009. 

69 

There is
no specific weighting applied to any one factor in setting the level of salary,
and the process ultimately relies on the subjective exercise of the Compensation
and Benefits Committee s judgment.  Although salaries are generally
targeted at market median compared to an industry peer group and other
compensation survey data for experienced professionals, the Compensation and
Benefits Committee may also take into account historical compensation, potential
as a key contributor as well as special recruiting/retention situations in
setting salaries for individual executives above or below the market
median.  Based upon data provided by our outside advisor, Base
Salaries for our Named Executive Officers are, on average, at median competitive
levels. 

(2)  Executive
Bonus Plan 

2009
Executive Bonus Plan 

For 2009,
bonuses for eligible employees were determined based on Charter s (or, if
applicable, an employees  particular operating group s or Key Market Area s
("KMA")) performance during 2009 measured against four performance goals or
measures .  These
measures, and the percentage of an employee s bonus allocated to each measure,
are revenue (20%), adjusted EBITDA for corporate employees or operating cash
flow for operating group and KMA employees (30%), adjusted EBITDA less capital
expenditures (30%) and Customer Excellence Index Plus ("CEI+") (20%). Target
bonuses for executive officers ranged from 50% to 200% of base salary in 2009,
subject to applicable employment agreements (see "Employment
Agreements").  The range of potential payouts relative to target range
from 10% to 150% of target bonus amounts. 

On
February 23, 2010, the Compensation and Benefits Committee determined that
achievement toward performance goals for 2009 resulted in bonuses under the 2009
Executive Bonus Plan at the corporate level in the amount of 124.9% of targeted
bonuses, as detailed in the following chart and as set forth in the Non-Equity
Incentive Plan column of the Summary Compensation Table. 

The
Compensation and Benefits Committee has the discretion to increase or decrease
payouts under this annual plan based on organizational factors such as
acquisitions or significant transactions, performance driven by changes in
products or markets and other unusual, unforeseen or exogenous
situations. 

(3)  Long-Term
Incentives 

Our
long-term incentive award compensation program is designed to recognize scope of
responsibilities, reward demonstrated performance and leadership, motivate
future superior performance, align the interests of the executive with that of
our stakeholders, and incent and retain the executives through the term of the
awards. We believe that performance-based incentives help to drive our
performance through their direct linkage to controllable business results while,
at the same time, rewarding executives for the value created through share price
appreciation. While the size of the award is ultimately left to the Compensation
and Benefits Committee discretion, grant levels are generally targeted at the
median to top quartile of competitive levels. 

Stock
Incentive Plan 

The 2001
Stock Incentive Plan, under which grants of equity were made to employees prior
to 2009, was terminated upon our emergence from bankruptcy and all outstanding
awards were cancelled. The new 2009 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the
potential grant of non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights,
dividend equivalent rights, performance units and performance shares, share
awards, phantom stock and shares of restricted stock as  

70 

each term
is defined in the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan and in the discretion of the
Compensation and Benefits Committee. Unless terminated sooner, the 2009 Stock
Incentive Plan will terminate on April 28, 2019, and no option or award can be
granted thereafter under that plan.  Pursuant to  the Plan,
upon emergence from bankruptcy, we included an allocation to the plan of a
number of shares of  new Charter Class A common stock equaling up to
approximately 3% of the Class A common stock outstanding and grants of 50% of
the amount were to be made to participants within 30 days of emergence from
bankruptcy.  Immediately upon emergence, the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan
included 3,848,393 shares.  On December 16, 2009, the board of
directors approved the inclusion of another 3,848,393 shares in the plan and
made initial grants of awards under the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan. 

As of
December 31, 2009, 5,776,560 shares remained available for future grants
under the plan.  As of December 31, 2009, there were 1,323
participants in the 2009 plan. 

The plan
authorizes the repricing of options, which could include reducing the exercise
price per share of any outstanding option, permitting the cancellation,
forfeiture or tender of outstanding options in exchange for other awards or for
new options with a lower exercise price per share, or repricing or replacing any
outstanding options by any other method. 

Long-Term
Incentive Program 

Grants of
equity compensation in the form of stock options, restricted shares and
performance units were previously made to participants including the Named
Executive Officers through our Long-Term Incentive Program ( LTIP ), which was
administered under the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan as discussed
above. 

As noted
above, 2001 Stock Incentive Plan was terminated upon our emergence from
bankruptcy and all awards, including those to the Named Executive Officers, were
forfeited.  In addition, because of the participation by the Named
Executive Officers in the Value Creation Plan, described below, none of the
Named Executive Officers received an LTIP award in 2009. 

The
amount of incentive compensation granted in 2009 was based upon our overall
strategic, operational and financial performance and reflects the participant's
expected contributions to our future success. In 2008, we changed the mix of
awards made to individuals under the LTIP, to include a performance cash
component, and in 2009, we further changed awards to include both a performance
cash component, subject to adjustment in 2010, and a restricted cash
component. 

In 2010,
the Compensation and Benefits Committee approved the adjustment of the
performance cash awards, at the level of attainment of 150.1% of the 2009 cash
awards as a result of the achievement of the financial performance
measures.  The level of award attainment was based on revenue growth
of 4.5% versus a target of 7.0% and adjusted EBITDA less capital expenditures of
22.2% versus a target of 15.4%.  One-third of these performance cash
awards, along with the restricted cash awards are scheduled to vest in each of
2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. In February 2010, the board of directors also
approved the winding down of the performance cash program. Charter will pay out
one-third of the remaining performance cash award balances in each of 2010, 2011
and 2012 to the participants, thus ending this component of the
program. 

Timing
of Equity Grants 

Grants of
equity-based awards are determined by the Compensation and Benefits Committee
and are typically made each calendar year following review by the Compensation
and Benefits Committee of our prior year s performance. Grants may also be made
at other times of the year upon execution of a new employment agreement, or in a
new hire or promotion situation. Grants of options, if made, have an exercise
price equal to the average of the high and low stock price on the date of
grant. 

(4)  Retention
Programs 

Executive
Cash Award Plan 

Charter
previously adopted the Executive Cash Award Plan ("ECAP") to provide additional
incentive to, and retain the services of, certain officers of Charter and its
subsidiaries, to achieve the highest level of individual performance and
contribute to the success of Charter. Eligible participants were employees of
Charter or any of its subsidiaries who have been recommended by the CEO and
designated and approved as ECAP participants by the Compensation and Benefits
Committee of Charter s board of directors. 

71 

The ECAP
provided that each participant be granted an award which represented an
opportunity to receive cash payments in accordance with the ECAP. An award was
credited in book entry format to a participant s notional account in an amount
equal to 100% of a participant s base salary on the date of plan approval in
2005 and 20% of participant s base salary in each year 2006 through 2009, based
on that participant s base salary as of May 1 of the applicable year. The
ECAP awards vested at the rate of 50% of the ECAP award balance at the end of
2007 and 100% of the ECAP award balance was to vest at the end of 2009.
Participants were entitled to receive payment of the vested portion of the award
if the participant remained employed by Charter continuously from the date of
the participant s initial participation through the end of the calendar year in
which his or her award became vested. 

The ECAP
was revised to allow the participation of new senior executives who became
eligible for the plan beginning in 2006.  In 2007, the plan was
amended and restated to make it consistent with the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan to
include the acceleration and payment of awards in the event of a change in
control of Charter.  All Named Executive Officers participated in this
plan. 

In
December 2008, we announced that we were in discussions with certain of our
bondholders about a potential financial restructuring of our balance sheet and
as part of that process, the Compensation and Benefits Committee hired Towers
Perrin as consultants to consider changes to senior management
compensation.  Based on recommendations of Towers Perrin, we
determined that prepayment of amounts under the ECAP, subject to repayment
obligation if the participants' employment were terminated voluntarily or "for
cause" prior to December 31, 2009 would provide a valuable retention incentive
to ECAP participants.  Therefore, the prepayment of all awards under
the ECAP to all participants, including the Named Executive Officers, was made
in January 2009.  The prepayment was made at a discounted rate equal
to 6% to account for the present value of such awards so prepaid. See the
Summary Compensation Table below. 

Value
Creation Plan 

In March
2009, we, after discussion with certain of our bondholders and upon the
recommendation of Towers Perrin, adopted the Value Creation Plan (the "VCP")
comprised of two components, the Restructuring Value Program (the  RVP ), and
the Cash Incentive Program (the  CIP ). 

The RVP
provided incentives to encourage and reward the thirteen participants critical
to our restructuring, for the successful conclusion of the
process.  Participants who continued to be employed by us or our
subsidiaries until payment of RVP awards earn payments under the RVP upon our
emergence from our Chapter 11 restructuring proceeding (the  Proceeding ),
subject to certain conditions.  These conditions were met and RVP
payments were made in December 2009 to the participants. The amounts paid to the
Named Executive Officers were as follows: Mr. Smit - $6 million; Mr. Lovett -
$2.38 million; Ms. Schmitz - $765,000; and Mr. Fawaz - $765,000. 

The CIP
provides annual incentives for participants to achieve specified individual
performance goals during each of the three years following our emergence from
the Proceeding.  Reasonably attainable individual performance goals
for each of the first three years following our emergence from the Proceeding
were established by the CEO, and approved by the Compensation and Benefits
Committee, within thirty days following our emergence from the
Proceeding.  Participants will earn all or a portion of their target
award based on the degree to which these goals are achieved in a particular
year; provided that any amount not paid in a year other than the third year will
be added to the amounts potentially payable upon the participant s achievement
of the performance goals in future years.  The CEO may decrease
(including to zero) any Participant s CIP awards at any time prior to their
Vesting Date (as defined in the Value Creation Plan).  Any such
reduction shall be used to increase the amounts otherwise payable under the CIP
component, as applicable, to one or more other Participants, as selected by the
CEO, it being understood that the CEO may not increase his own award without the
consent of the board of directors.  Amounts that are not earned by a
participant in a particular year may be earned by that participant in a
subsequent year if the participant s performance goals applicable to that
subsequent year are achieved.  Participants also fully vest in CIP
payments upon an earlier of, or due to (i) a termination of their employment on
or after our emergence from the Proceeding due to death, disability, by us for a
reason other than  cause,  or voluntarily due to a  good reason  (as each such
term is defined in the Plan) and (ii) a  change in control  of Charter if they
are then employed by Charter.  The annual target awards for our Named
Executive Officers are: Mr. Smit - $2.5 million; Mr. Lovett - $1 million; Ms.
Schmitz - $750,000; and Mr. Fawaz - $650,000. 

As a
result of their participation in the VCP, the Named Executive Officers did not
participate in the LTIP in 2009. 

72 

Other
Compensation Elements  

The Named
Executive Officers participate in all other benefit programs offered to all
employees generally. 

Impact
of Tax and Accounting 

Section 162(m)
of the Internal Revenue Code generally provides that certain kinds of
compensation in excess of $1 million in any single year paid to the chief
executive officer and the three other most highly compensated executive officers
other than the chief financial officer of a public company are not deductible
for federal income tax purposes. However, pursuant to regulations issued by the
U.S. Treasury Department, certain limited exemptions to Section 162(m)
apply with respect to qualified  performance-based compensation.  While the tax
effect of any compensation arrangement is one factor to be considered, such
effect is evaluated in light of our overall compensation philosophy. To maintain
flexibility in compensating executive officers in a manner designed to promote
varying corporate goals, the Compensation and Benefits Committee has not adopted
a policy that all compensation must be deductible. Stock options and performance
shares granted under our 2009 Stock Incentive Plan are subject to the approval
of the Compensation and Benefits Committee. The grants qualify as
 performance-based compensation  and, as such, are exempt from the limitation on
deductions.  Outright grants of restricted stock and certain cash
payments (such as base salary and cash bonuses) are not structured to qualify as
 performance-based compensation  and are, therefore, subject to the
Section 162(m) limitation on deductions and will count against the
$1 million cap. 

When
determining amounts and forms of compensation grants to executives and
employees, the Compensation and Benefits Committee considers the accounting cost
associated with the grants.  We account for stock-based compensation
in accordance with accounting standards regarding stock compensation which
addresses the accounting for share-based payment transactions in which a company
receives employee services in exchange for (a) equity instruments of that
company or (b) liabilities that are based on the fair value of the
company s equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of such
equity instruments. Under this accounting guidance, grants of stock options,
restricted stock, performance shares and other share-based payments result in an
accounting charge. The accounting charge is equal to the fair value of the
instruments being issued on the date of the grant and is amortized over the
requisite service period, or vesting period of the instruments. For restricted
stock and performance shares, the cost is equal to the fair value of the stock
on the date of grant times the number of shares or units granted. For stock
options, the cost is equal to the fair value of the option on the date of the
grant, estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, times the number
of options granted. The following weighted average assumptions were used for
grants during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively:
risk-free interest rates of 3.5% and 4.6%; expected volatility of 88.1% and
70.3% based on historical volatility; and expected lives of 6.3 years and
6.3 years, respectively. The valuations assume no dividends are paid. 
We did not grant stock options in 2009.  Dollar values included in the
 Non-Employee Director Compensation Table  and the  Summary Compensation Table 
represent the aggregate fair value of all awards granted in 2009 and
prior. 

Events
Relating to Equity Awards 

In early
2009, due in part to the low stock trading price and our restructuring, we
offered employees who participated in the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan the option
of forfeiting their grants of restricted stock and performance shares scheduled
to vest in 2009.  Messrs. Smit, Lovett and Fawaz and Ms. Schmitz forfeited
their shares and, therefore, there were no vesting events as to equity for them
in 2009.  The compensation tables were prepared regarding compensation
earned during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007.  

73 

Summary
Compensation Table 

The
following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007 regarding the compensation to those executive officers listed below for
services rendered for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007. These officers consist of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial
Officer and each of the other three most highly compensated executive officers
as of December 31, 2009. 

(1)           Amounts
reported in this column include discretionary bonuses received by the Named
Executive Officer, if any, for the fiscal years ending December 31, 2008 and
December 31, 2007, and payments under the ECAP.  As previously
discussed, payouts of the balance of each Named Executive Officer's ECAP Account
were approved and made to each Named Executive Officer as reflected in this
Bonus column for the year 2008.  For further information on the ECAP,
please see the section titled "Executive Cash Award Program" in the Compensation
Discussion and Analysis. 

(2)           Amounts
reported in these columns reflect the aggregate grant date fair value of equity
grants to each Named Executive Officer.  In 2009, there was a
post-emergence grant of restricted stock in December, however, no performance
units or stock options were granted in 2009.  Restricted stock
reported for 2009 represents the aggregate grant date fair value based on the
closing stock price on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board on the grant date of
December 16, 2009 of $35.25 per share. As previously noted, all of Charter's
equity was cancelled upon Charter's emergence from Chapter 11, including the
amounts shown in this table for the years of 2008 and 2007.  Amounts
in these prior years were calculated in accordance with accounting guidance
regarding stock compensation and represent the aggregate grant date fair
value.  For more information on accounting guidance regarding stock
compensation, see "Impact of Tax and Accounting" under Compensation Discussion
and Analysis. 

74 

(3)           
Amounts reported in this column include RVP payments made under the VCP upon our
emergence from bankruptcy.  For further information on the VCP or RVP,
please see the section titled "Value Creation Plan" in "Compensation Discussion
and Analysis."  The amounts under this column also include the 2007
and 2008 Executive Bonus Plan bonuses and each Named Executive Officer's target
2009 Executive Bonus Plan bonus earned during the 2009 fiscal year and paid 50%
in 2009 with the remaining 50% paid in the first quarter of 2010.  In
addition to this bonus payment under the 2009 Executive Bonus Program of
$3,747,000, Mr. Smit received a performance cash payment of $416,958 and a
$6,000,000 RVP payment under the VCP.  In addition to this bonus
payment under the 2009 Executive Bonus Program of $491,794, Ms. Schmitz received
a performance cash payment of $55,592 and a $765,000 RVP payment under the VCP.
In addition to this bonus payment under the 2009 Executive Bonus Program of
$1,182,146, Mr. Lovett received a performance cash payment of $259,440 and a
$2,380,000 RVP payment under the VCP. Mr. Doody received a bonus payment under
the 2009 Executive Bonus Program of $237,436.  In addition to this
bonus payment under the 2009 Executive Bonus Program of $455,970, Mr. Fawaz
received a performance cash payment of $83,392 and a $765,000 RVP payment under
the VCP. 

(4)           In
2008, Mr. Smit received a March 18th grant of 1,851,840 restricted shares at an
aggregate grant date fair value of $1,537,027 and a March 18th grant of
2,178,660 performance units at an aggregate grant date fair value based on
probable outcome as of the grant date of $1,808,288 (maximum value of the
performance unit award assuming the highest level of performance conditions was
$3,616,576).  These awards have since been canceled for no value
pursuant to the Plan. 

(5)           In
2007, Mr. Smit received an August 1st grant of 600,000 restricted shares at an
aggregate grant date fair value of $2,223,000; a March 9th grant of 579,154
performance units at an aggregate grant date fair value based on probable
outcome as of the grant date of $1,520,279 (maximum value of the performance
unit award assuming the highest level of performance conditions is $3,040,559);
and an August 1st grant of 600,000 performance units at an aggregate grant date
fair value based on probable outcome as of the grant date of $2,223,000 (maximum
value of the performance unit award assuming highest level of performance
conditions is $4,446,000). These awards have since been canceled for no value
pursuant to the Plan. 

(6)           In
2008, Ms. Schmitz received a March 18th grant of 123,450 restricted shares at an
aggregate grant date fair value of $102,464, a July 1st grant of 92,593
restricted shares at an aggregate grant date fair value of $100,000; a March
18th grant of 145,230 performance units at an aggregate grant date fair value
based on probable outcome as of the grant date of $120,541 (maximum value of the
performance unit award assuming the highest level of performance conditions is
$241,082); and a July 1st grant of 108,932 performance units at an aggregate
grant date fair value based on probable outcome as of the grant date of $117,647
(maximum value of the performance unit award assuming highest level of
performance conditions is $235,293). These awards have since been canceled for
no value pursuant to the Plan. 

(7)           In
2007, Ms. Schmitz received an August 1st grant of 92,500 restricted shares at an
aggregate grant date fair value of $342,713; a March 9th grant of 72,585
performance units at an aggregate grant date fair value based on probable
outcome as of the grant date of $190,536 (maximum value of the performance unit
award assuming the highest level of performance conditions is $381,071); and an
August 1st grant of 92,500 performance units at an aggregate grant date fair
value based on probable outcome as of the grant date of $342,713 (maximum value
of the performance unit award assuming highest level of performance conditions
is $685,425). These awards have since been canceled for no value pursuant to the
Plan. 

(8)           In
2008, Mr. Lovett received a March 18th grant of 1,152,270 restricted shares at
an aggregate grant date fair value of $956,384; and a March 18th grant of
1,355,610 performance units at an aggregate grant date fair value based on
probable outcome as of the grant date of $1,125,156 (maximum value of the
performance unit award assuming the highest level of performance conditions is
$2,250,313). These awards have since been canceled for no value pursuant to the
Plan. 

(9)           In
2007, Mr. Lovett received a March 9th grant of 300,000 restricted shares at an
aggregate grant date fair value of $787,500; an August 1st grant
of 553,643 restricted shares at an aggregate grant date fair value of
$2,051,247; a March 9th grant of 518,400 performance units at an aggregate grant
date fair value based on probable outcome as of the grant date of $1,360,800
(maximum value of the performance unit award assuming the highest level of
performance conditions is $2,721,600); and an August 1st grant of 553,643
performance units at an aggregate grant date fair value based on probable
outcome as of the grant date of $2,051,247 (maximum value of the performance
unit award assuming highest level of performance conditions is $4,102,495).
These awards have since been canceled for no value pursuant to the
Plan. 

75 

(10)           Includes
salary received after Mr. Doody was made an employee effective March
2009.  Prior to becoming an employee and serving as general counsel,
Mr. Doody was an independent contractor serving as chief restructuring officer
and received payments pursuant to an agreement between Charter and Dumaine
Advisors, LLC. 

(11)           Upon
our emergence from bankruptcy, Mr. Doody received a payment equal to $757,615
pursuant to the terms of his employment contract in effect at the
time. 

(12)           In
2008, Mr. Fawaz received a March 18th grant of 370,380 restricted shares at an
aggregate grant date fair value of $307,415; and a March 18th grant of 435,720
performance units at an aggregate grant date fair value based on probable
outcome as of the grant date of $361,648 (maximum value of the performance unit
award assuming highest level of performance conditions is $723,295). These
awards have since been canceled for no value pursuant to the Plan. 

(13)           In
2007, Mr. Fawaz received an August 1st grant
of  150,000  restricted shares at an aggregate grant date
fair value of $555,750; a March 9th grant of 133,741 performance units at an
aggregate grant date fair value based on probable outcome as of the grant date
of $351,070 (maximum value of the performance unit award assuming the highest
level of performance conditions is $702,140); and an August 1st grant of 150,000
performance units at an aggregate grant date fair value based on probable
outcome as of the grant date of $555,750 (maximum value of the performance unit
award assuming highest level of performance conditions is $1,111,500). These
awards have since been canceled for no value pursuant to the Plan. 

(14)           
The following table identifies the perquisites and personal benefits received by
the Named Executive Officers: 

(15)           Amount
reported includes payments made for Mr. Doody's services pursuant to the
agreement between Charter and Dumaine Advisors, LLC, prior to his employment
with us. 

76 

2009
Grants of Plan Based Awards 

As
previously noted, all outstanding equity in Charter was cancelled upon our
emergence from Chapter 11 including amounts reported in prior
years.  Awards of restricted stock were made following our emergence
from bankruptcy.  Awards were made under the 2009 Executive Bonus Plan
and the Value Creation Plan.  No stock options were granted in the
calendar year 2009. 

__________ 

(1)      On
December 16, 2009, the Compensation and Benefits Committee approved equity
grants of restricted stock effective upon our emergence from bankruptcy and
which will vest in three installments on each November 30 of 2010, 2011 and
2012. 

(2)      These
columns show the range of target payouts under the 2009 Executive Bonus Plan
based on 2009 performance.  These payments for 2009 performance were
made based on the metrics described in the section titled  2009 Executive Bonus
Plan  in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis.  These payments are
reflected in the Non-Equity Incentive Plan column in the Summary Compensation
Table. 

(3)      These
columns show the range of payouts under the Value Creation Plan ("VCP") as
originally approved by Charter's board of directors on March 12,
2009.  Based on the criteria described in more detail in the section
titled  Value Creation Plan  in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the
VCP contains two components:  the Restructuring Value Program (RVP)
and the Cash Incentive Plan (CIP) payments.  The RVP was structured as
a one-time payment effective on our emergence from Chapter 11.  The
CIP is payable in three (3) installments and based upon certain performance
criteria.  On December 15, 2009, Charter's board of directors
increased the target bonuses for the CIP as follows:  Ms. Schmitz
received an increase of $259,000 from the previous grant, Mr. Lovett received an
increase of $269,000 from the previous grant, and Mr. Fawaz received an increase
of $160,000 from the previous grant.  The RVP payments are reflected
in the Non-Equity Incentive Plan column in the Summary Compensation
Table.  No CIP payment has vested to date. 

(4)      Awards
under this column are granted as restricted shares under the 2009 Stock
Incentive Plan. 

(5)      No
stock option grants were made in 2009. 

(6)      Amounts
were calculated in accordance with accounting guidance regarding stock
compensation and represent the aggregate grant date fair value based on the
closing stock price on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board on the  

77 

grant
date of December 16, 2009 of $35.25 per share. For more information on
accounting guidance regarding stock compensation, see "Impact of Tax and
Accounting" under the Compensation Discussion and Analysis. 

Outstanding
Equity Awards at Fiscal Year End 

The
following table provides information concerning unexercised options and unvested
restricted stock and performance units for each of our Named Executive Officers,
which remained outstanding as of December 31, 2009. All equity, including
options, held prior to November 30, 2009 was cancelled upon our emergence from
Chapter 11.  As previously stated, restricted stock grants were made
to the Named Executive Officers following emergence. 

(1)      All
outstanding equity in Charter was cancelled upon Charter's emergence from
Chapter 11 including amounts reported in prior years.  No stock
options or performance units were granted in the calendar year
2009. 

(2)      All
restricted stock awards vest in equal installments over a three-year period from
the grant dates.  No performance unit awards were made in 2009 and
performance units were cancelled effective on the emergence date.  Mr.
Smit will have 114,549 shares vest on each November 30th of 2010 and 2011 and
114,550 shares on November 30, 2012. Ms Schmitz will have 28,001 shares vest on
each November 30 of 2010, 2011 and 2012.  Mr. Lovett will have 50,911
shares vest on each November 30th of 2010 and 2011 and 50,910 shares on November
30, 2012.  Mr. Doody will have 25,455 shares vest on each November 30
of 2010 and 2011 and 25,456 shares vest on November 30, 2012.  Mr.
Fawaz will have 25,455 shares vest on each November 30 of 2010 and 2011 and
25,456 shares vest on November 30, 2012. 

(3)      Based
on the closing stock price on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board at
December 31, 2009 of $34.50 per share. 

2009
Options Exercised and Stock Vested 

No stock
options were exercised by any Named Executive Officer during 2009. In addition,
Mr. Doody was not the recipient of any stock option grants and, therefore, no
options were capable of exercise by him in 2009.  All outstanding
stock options were cancelled upon our emergence from bankruptcy.  No
further grants of stock options were made following emergence date. 

All stock
awards scheduled to vest in 2009 were voluntarily forfeited by the Named
Executive Officers in 2009 prior to their vesting dates. 

Employment
Agreements 

Neil
Smit 

On
January 22, 2010, we announced that Mr. Smit, President and Chief Executive
Officer, would resign effective  

78 

February
28, 2010. 

On
September 26, 2008, Charter and Mr. Smit entered into an amended and
restated employment agreement effective as of July 1, 2008 which was amended on
November 30, 2009 pursuant to the First Amendment to Employment Agreement (as
amended, the "Smit Agreement").  Under the Smit Agreement,
Mr. Smit was to serve as Charter s President and Chief Executive Officer
for a term expiring on June 30, 2010 and to receive a $1,500,000 base salary per
year during the term. Mr. Smit was eligible to receive a performance-based
bonus equal to not less than 125% and not more than 200% of the target bonus in
2009 and 2010, as determined by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of
Charter s board of directors. In accordance with the Smit Agreement, the target
bonus for 2009 and 2010 was two times his base salary or
$3,000,000.  Performance criteria did not include Charter s stock
trading price and may have included revenue, average revenue per unit ("ARPU"),
revenue generating unit ("RGU"), operating cash flow ("OCF"), new product growth
operational improvements, and/or such other metrics as the Compensation and
Benefits Committee would determine. Mr. Smit received a signing bonus equal to
$2,000,000 upon execution of the Smit Agreement. 

The
vesting of Mr. Smit's performance cash incentive award from 2008 was to be at
June 30, 2010, the termination date of the Smit Agreement, subject only to Mr.
Smit's continuous service with Charter through that date.  Each annual
equity award in 2009 and 2010 was to have the aggregate fair value on the grant
date of $6,000,000, provided, however, that Mr. Smit did not receive an annual
long-term incentive plan grant in 2009 since he received the full $6,000,000
award made to him under the RVP pursuant to the VCP.  He was eligible
to participate in other employee benefit plans, programs and arrangements
generally available to other senior executives and is eligible for other or
additional long-term incentives in the sole discretion of the Compensation and
Benefits Committee and/or the board of directors, including stock option grants
and restricted stock awards. We have agreed to pay or reimburse him for
professional fees he incurs in connection with financial counseling, estate
planning, tax preparation and the like, up to a maximum of $15,000 for each
calendar year during the term of the Smit Agreement. Mr. Smit receives
employee benefits and perquisites consistent with those made generally available
to other senior executives. 

Eloise
E. Schmitz 

On July
1, 2008, Charter and Ms. Schmitz entered into an amended and restated
employment agreement which was amended on November 30, 2009 pursuant to the
Amendment to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement (as amended, the "Schmitz
Agreement").  The Schmitz Agreement provides that Ms. Schmitz shall be
employed in an executive capacity as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer with such responsibilities, duties and authority as are
customary for such role, including, but not limited to, overall management
responsibility for Charter s financial reporting, at a salary of $525,000, to be
reviewed on an annual basis.  For 2009 and the fiscal years
thereafter, she is eligible to participate in the incentive bonus plan with a
target bonus of up to 75%.  She is also eligible to receive such other
employee benefits as are generally made available to other senior
executives.  The Schmitz Agreement contains a two-year non-compete
provision and a two year non-solicitation clause.  The term of the
Schmitz Agreement is two years from the effective date of the Schmitz Agreement,
and will automatically renew at the end of the term and on each anniversary
thereof, for one year, unless terminated earlier by either party upon 90 days
written notice. 

Michael
J. Lovett 

On August
1, 2007, Charter executed an amended and restated employment agreement with Mr.
Lovett that was subsequently amended by an addendum dated March 5, 2008 (as
amended, the  Lovett Agreement ). The Lovett Agreement provides that
Mr. Lovett shall be employed in an executive capacity as Executive Vice
President and Chief Operating Officer with such responsibilities, duties and
authority as are customary for such role, including, but not limited to, overall
management responsibility for Charter s operations, at a current annual salary
of $757,179, to be reviewed on an annual basis. He is eligible to participate in
the incentive bonus plan with a target bonus of at least 125% of salary and to
receive such other employee benefits as are available to other senior
executives.  The Lovett Agreement contains a two-year non-compete
provision and a two year non-solicitation clause.  The term of the
Lovett Agreement is three years from the effective date of the Lovett Agreement,
and will automatically renew at the end of the term and on each anniversary
thereof, for one year, unless terminated earlier by either party upon 90 days
written notice.  Mr. Lovett is to become interim President and Chief
Executive Officer upon Mr. Smit's resignation, effective February 28,
2010. 

79 

Gregory
L. Doody 

Mr. Doody
was previously a party to an employment agreement with Charter dated March 25,
2009.  That agreement terminated on November 30, 2009.  As
of December 31, 2009, Mr. Doody was not a party to any employment agreement with
Charter. 

Marwan
Fawaz 

Charter has
agreed to an amended and restated employment agreement with Mr. Fawaz as of
February 23, 2010 (as amended, the "Fawaz Agreement").  The Fawaz
Agreement provides that Mr. Fawaz shall be employed in an executive capacity as
Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer with such
responsibilities, duties and authority as are customary for such role,
including, but not limited to, overall management responsibility for Charter s
technology and engineering, at a current annual salary of $486,758, to be
reviewed on an annual basis. Mr. Fawaz is eligible to participate in the
incentive bonus plan with a target bonus of at least 75% of salary and eligible
to receive such other employee benefits as are available to other senior
executives.  In addition, pursuant to the Fawaz Agreement, Mr. Fawaz
will receive 12,410 restricted shares of Charter Class A common stock, vesting
two years from the date granted.  The Fawaz Agreement contains a two-year
non-compete provision and a two year non-solicitation clause.  The
term of the Fawaz Agreement is two years from the effective date of the Fawaz
Agreement, and will automatically renew at the end of the term and on each
anniversary thereof for one year, unless terminated earlier by either party upon
90 days written notice. 

Separation
and Related Arrangements 

The
following tables show payments due to each of the Named Executive Officers upon
termination of employment, assuming that the triggering of payments had occurred
on December 31, 2009. The stock price used in these calculations is $34.50
per share, the closing price of Charter Class A common stock on the
Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board on December 31, 2009. The paragraphs that
follow each table describe the termination provisions that are contained in each
named executive officer s employment agreement. These descriptions cover only
information regarding benefits that are not generally available to other
employees. Benefits generally available to other employees are: 

Salary
      through date of termination (unless otherwise
  stated); 

Lump
      sum payment covering COBRA for the period of
  severance; 

Lump
      sum payment of accrued and unused
  vacation; and 

If,
      applicable, options continue to vest through any applicable severance
      period and are then exercisable for 60 days following the end of such
      period. 

Neil
Smit 

The
following information has been prepared to show the payments Mr. Smit would
receive in the event of the termination of his employment effective December 31,
2009 in accordance Mr. Smit's employment agreement and other plans and
agreements in effect as of December 31, 2009.  However, on January 21,
2010, we announced that Mr. Smit that would resign as President, Chief Executive
Officer and member of Charter's board of directors, effective February 28,
2010.  In connection with his separation from Charter, Mr. Smit will
not be receiving any severance beyond the benefits generally available to other
departing members of senior management.   Further, he will be
forfeiting any unvested equity held at the date of his departure and all
payments under the CIP portion of the VCP.  However, he will receive a
payment of $278,014 from the performance cash program.   

For Cause/Voluntary
Termination Event  

In the
event that Mr. Smit s employment would have been terminated for  cause  or
he terminated his employment for any reason other than  good reason,  he would
have been entitled to the right to exercise any vested stock option for the
lesser of 30 days or the remainder of the option s maximum stated
term.  In addition, Mr. Smit would have received the full payment of
the balance of any annual, long-term or other incentive award earned in respect
to any period ending on or prior to the termination date but not yet
paid. 

Going Private
Event  

In the
event that Charter s common stock is no longer traded on a national market (a
 Going Private Event ), then Charter, in its sole discretion, would have
adjusted Mr. Smit s outstanding equity-based awards using one of three

80 

approaches: 

(a) Accelerate
      Vesting   accelerate the vesting and exercisability of all stock
      options; accelerate the vesting of all restricted shares; and deliver a
      pro-rated amount of unrestricted, publicly tradable securities for each
      outstanding performance share award assuming target
      performance; 

(b) Adjust
      Awards   make appropriate adjustments in the amounts and kinds of
      securities of outstanding stock options, restricted stock and performance
      share awards and/or other terms and conditions of such awards so as to
      avoid dilution or enlargement of Mr. Smit s rights and value and to
      avoid any incremental current tax to
  him; or 

(c) Combination
      of approaches (a) Accelerate Vesting and (b) Adjust
      Awards. 

Following
a Going Private Event, to the extent that Mr. Smit s restricted shares,
stock options and/or performance shares remain outstanding under approach
(b) Adjust Awards above, then he would have had  the right to
 put  any or all securities for a prompt cash payment equal to their fair market
value during the 180 days following the settlement date, i.e., the date of
vesting or removal of restrictions on any restricted stock, the delivery date of
securities in respect of a performance share award or the exercise date of any
stock option and/or his termination of employment for any reason following such
settlement date. Charter would also have had the right to  call  the securities
for the same amount. 

Death or Disability
Termination Event  

In the
event that Mr. Smit s employment was terminated during the term of his
Employment Agreement due to his death or disability, he or his estate or
beneficiaries would have been entitled to receive: 

A
      pro rata bonus for the year of termination equal to 200% of the salary
      earned through the termination date for the calendar year during which
      employment was terminated; 

Full
      vesting and exercisability of any outstanding stock options and continued
      ability to exercise his options for the lesser of two years or the
      remainder of the option s maximum stated
term; 

Full
      vesting of any right to receive performance shares, with the number of
      performance shares earned and the timing of delivery of shares being
      determined as if all relevant performance goals had been achieved at 100%
      of the target; 

Full
      vesting of any right to receive performance cash, with the amount earned
      being determined as if all relevant performance goals had been achieved at
      100% of the target; 

Full
      vesting of all amounts payable under the CIP;
  and 

Full
      payment of the balance of any annual, long-term or other incentive award
      earned in respect to any period ending on or prior to the termination date
      but not yet paid. 

Without Cause/Good
Reason/Change in Control Termination Event  

In the
event that Mr. Smit was terminated by Charter without  cause  or for  good
reason,  which included Mr. Smit s right to voluntarily terminate
employment during a 60-day period starting 180 days after a change in
control, he would have received: 

Three
      (3) times the sum of:  (i) his annual salary for the year of
      termination; plus (ii) 200% of his annual salary for the year of
      termination; 

Vesting
      of restricted stock for a period of one (1) year following Charter's
      termination without cause; 

Forfeiture
      of unvested restricted stock if Mr. Smit terminates his employment for
      good reason; 

Full
      vesting of restricted stock on a change in control
  event; 

Full
      vesting of any right to receive performance cash, with the amount earned
      being determined as if all relevant performance goals had been achieved at
      100% of the target; 

Full
      vesting of all amounts payable under the CIP;
  and 

Full
      payment of the balance of any other annual, long-term or other incentive
      award earned in respect to any period ending on or prior to the
      termination date but not yet paid. 

The
Employment Agreement also provided tax gross-up payments for certain excise
taxes. In the event that Mr. Smit is subject to any excise tax imposed
under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code, Charter was required to
gross up Mr. Smit for such excise tax and any taxes, penalties and interest
associated with such excise tax. In the event that Mr. Smit was subject to
any  409A excise tax  (e.g., additional tax, interest, or penalty under
Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code), Charter was required to gross
up Mr. Smit for such 409A excise tax and any taxes, penalties and interest
associated with such 409A excise tax. 

81 

In
consideration of the compensation and benefits to be paid to Mr. Smit, the
Employment Agreement contained non-compete provisions, non-solicitation of
employees and non-solicitation of customers lasting from six months to two years
after termination, depending on the type of termination. The Employment
Agreement also provides that he cannot reveal or use any confidential
information obtained in the course of his employment. 

Eloise
E. Schmitz 

(1)      Bonus
is the Target Bonus amount specified under the Executive's employment agreement
and payable in accordance with the 2009 Executive Bonus Plan.  See the
"2009 Executive Bonus Plan" section in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis
for further plan details. 

(2)      Bonus
is the Executive's Target CIP Bonus payable in accordance with the
VCP.  See the "Value Creation Plan" section in the Compensation
Discussion and Analysis for further plan details. 

(3)      As
stated previously, no stock options or performance units were granted in 2009
and all prior equity grants were cancelled in connection with our emergence from
bankruptcy. 

Death or Disability
Termination Event  

In the
event that Ms. Schmitz is terminated as a result of death or  disability,  Ms.
Schmitz, her estate or beneficiaries shall be entitled to receive: 

In
      the event there is a period of time during which Ms. Schmitz is not being
      paid annual base salary and not receiving long-term disability insurance
      payments, Ms. Schmitz will receive interim payments equal to such unpaid
      disability insurance payments until commencement of disability insurance
      payments; 

Full
      vesting of all amounts payable under the CIP;
  and 

A
      pro rata bonus for the year of
termination. 

Without Cause/Good Reason
Termination Event  

In the
event that Ms. Schmitz is terminated by Charter without  cause  or, upon her
election, for  good reason,  Ms. Schmitz will receive: 

Two
      (2) times her annual base salary and 150% of her target bonus (75% of
      salary) payable over fifty-two (52) bi-weekly payroll installments
      following termination; 

Vesting
      of restricted stock for a period of one (1) year following Charter's
      termination without cause; 

Forfeiture
      of unvested restricted stock if Ms. Schmitz terminates her employment for
      good reason; 

The
      vesting of performance cash issued in 2008 and prior years for as long as
      severance payments are
made; and 

Full
      vesting of all amounts payable under the
CIP. 

Change in Control
Termination Event  

In the
event that within 30 days before, or 13 months following, the occurrence of
a Change in Control, Charter or any of its subsidiaries, terminate her
employment without  cause  or she terminates her employment with Charter

82 

and its subsidiaries for  good reason,  Ms. Schmitz will
receive:

Two
      (2) times her annual base salary and 150% of her target bonus (75% of
      salary) for the year of
termination; 

All
      unvested restricted stock shall immediately
  vest; 

Full
      vesting of all amounts payable under the CIP;
  and 

Full
      vesting of any right to receive performance cash, with the amount earned
      being determined as if all relevant performance goals had been achieved at
      100% of the target. 

The
Schmitz Agreement contains a two-year non-solicitation clause for customers and
employees and a two-year non-compete provision (or until the end of the term of
the Schmitz Agreement, if longer). The Schmitz Agreement provides that she
cannot reveal or use any confidential information obtained in the course of her
employment. 

Michael
J. Lovett 

(1)      Bonus
is the Target Bonus amount specified under the Executive's employment agreement
and payable in accordance with the 2009 Executive Bonus Plan.  See the
"2009 Executive Bonus Plan" section in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis
for further plan details. 

(2)      Bonus
is the Executive's Target CIP Bonus payable in accordance with the
VCP.  See the "Value Creation Plan" section in the Compensation
Discussion and Analysis for further plan details. 

(3)      As
stated previously, no stock options or performance units were granted in 2009
and all prior equity grants were cancelled in connection with our emergence from
bankruptcy. 

Death or Disability
Termination Event  

In the
event that Mr. Lovett is terminated as a result of death or  disability, 
Mr. Lovett, his estate or beneficiaries shall be entitled to
receive: 

In
      the event there is a period of time during which Mr. Lovett is not being
      paid annual base salary and not receiving long-term disability insurance
      payments, Mr. Lovett will receive interim payments equal to such unpaid
      disability insurance payments until commencement of disability insurance
      payments; 

Full
      vesting of all amounts payable under the CIP;
  and 

A
      pro rata bonus for the year of
termination. 

Without Cause/Good Reason
Termination Event  

In the
event that Mr. Lovett is terminated by Charter without  cause  or, upon his
election, for  good reason,  Mr. Lovett will receive: 

Two
      and a half (2.5) times his annual base salary and 150% of his target bonus
      (125% of salary) payable over fifty-two (52) bi-weekly payroll
      installments following termination; 

Vesting
      of restricted stock for a period of one (1) year following Charter's
      termination without cause; 

Forfeiture
      of unvested restricted stock if Mr. Lovett terminates his employment for
      good reason; 

83 

Full
      vesting of performance cash issued in 2008 and prior years for as long as
      severance payments are
made; and 

Full
      vesting of all amounts payable under the
CIP. 

Change in Control
Termination Event  

In the
event that within 30 days before, or 13 months following, the occurrence of
a Change in Control, Charter or any of its subsidiaries, terminate his
employment without  cause  or he terminates his employment with Charter and its
subsidiaries for  good reason,  Mr. Lovett will receive: 

Two
      and a half (2.5) times his annual base salary and 150% of his target bonus
      (125% of salary) for the year of
termination; 

Full
      vesting of any right to receive performance cash, with the amount earned
      being determined as if all relevant performance goals had been achieved at
      100% of the target; 

Full
      vesting of all amounts payable under the CIP;
  and 

All
      unvested restricted stock shall immediately
  vest. 

The
Lovett Agreement contains a two-year non-solicitation clause for customers and
employees and a two-year non-compete provision (or until the end of the term of
the Lovett Agreement, if longer). The Lovett Agreement provides that he not ever
reveal or use any confidential information obtained in the course of his
employment. 

Gregory
L.  Doody 

As of
December 31, 2009, Mr. Doody was not a party to any employment contract with
Charter.  If Mr. Doody's employment with Charter had been terminated
effective December 31, 2009, he would have been eligible to receive severance in
accordance with our 2009 Severance Plan.  Under the 2009 Severance
Plan, eligible employees with a job class of vice president or above are
eligible to receive a minimum of 26 weeks of severance up to a maximum of 52
weeks of severance pay. On December 31, 2009, Mr. Doody's annual base salary was
equal to $720,000.  If Mr. Doody had been terminated effective
December 31, 2009 and offered the minimum severance, he would have received
$360,000 of severance pay.  If offered the maximum severance, he would
have received $720,000 of severance pay. 

Unless
otherwise provided in any applicable plan document, any long-term incentive plan
awards granted prior to the termination event continue to vest during any
severance period.  As more fully set forth in the Grants of Plan Based
Awards table, Mr. Doody was the recipient of 76,366 shares of restricted stock
in 2009.  In accordance with Charter's 2009 restricted stock
agreement, Mr. Doody would not have been entitled to any of this unvested
restricted stock in the event of: a termination by Mr. Doody of his employment
for good reason, a termination of employment due to death or disability, a
termination by Charter for Cause or a voluntary termination by Mr. Doody of his
employment.  In addition, under the restricted stock agreement, all
unvested shares of restricted stock would have continued to vest for one year
following a December 31, 2009 termination of Mr. Doody's employment without
cause by Charter and all unvested shares would have immediately vested following
a without cause or voluntary termination of Mr. Doody's employment within
thirteen (13) months following the occurrence of a change in
control.  A without-cause, non-change in control termination would
have resulted in vesting of 25,455 shares equal to $878,198.  A change
in control termination would have resulted in immediate vesting of the entire
grant of 76,366 shares equal to $2,634,627. 

84 

Marwan
Fawaz 

(1)      Bonus
is the Target Bonus amount specified under the Executive's employment agreement
and payable in accordance with the 2009 Executive Bonus Plan.  See the
"2009 Executive Bonus Plan" section in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis
for further plan details. 

(2)      Bonus
is the Executive's Target CIP Bonus payable in accordance with the
VCP.  See the "Value Creation Plan" section in the Compensation
Discussion and Analysis for further plan details. 

(3)      As
stated previously, no stock options or performance units were granted in 2009
and all prior equity grants were cancelled in connection with our emergence from
bankruptcy. 

Death or Disability
Termination Event  

In the
event that Mr. Fawaz is terminated as a result of death or  disability,  Mr.
Fawaz, his estate or beneficiaries shall be entitled to: 

In
      the event there is a period of time during which Mr. Fawaz is not being
      paid annual base salary and not receiving long-term disability insurance
      payments, Mr. Fawaz will receive interim payments equal to such unpaid
      disability insurance payments until commencement of disability insurance
      payments; 

Full
      vesting of all amounts payable under the CIP;
  and 

A
      pro rata bonus for the year of
termination. 

Without Cause/Good Reason
Termination Event  

In the
event that Mr. Fawaz s employment is terminated by Charter without  cause  or by
Mr. Fawaz for  good reason,  Mr. Fawaz will receive: 

Two
      (2) times his annual base salary and 150% of his target bonus (75% of
      salary) payable over fifty-two (52) bi-weekly payroll installments
      following termination; 

Vesting
      of restricted stock for a period of one (1) year following Charter's
      termination without cause; 

Forfeiture
      of unvested restricted stock if Mr. Fawaz terminates his employment for
      good reason; 

The
      vesting of performance cash issued in 2008 and prior years for as long as
      severance payments are made;  

Full
      vesting of all amounts payable under the
CIP. 

Change in Control
Termination Event  

In the
event that within 30 days before, or 13  months following, the
occurrence of a Change in Control, Charter or any of its subsidiaries, terminate
his employment without  cause  or he terminates his employment with Charter and
its subsidiaries for  good reason,  Mr. Fawaz will receive: 

Two
      (2) times his annual base salary and 150% of his target bonus (75% of
      salary) for the year of
termination; 

85 

Full
      vesting of any right to receive performance cash, with the amount earned
      being determined as if all relevant performance goals had been achieved at
      100% of the target; 

Full
      vesting of all amounts payable under the CIP;
  and 

All
      unvested restricted stock shall immediately
  vest. 

The Fawaz
Agreement contains a two-year non-solicitation clause for customers and
employees and a two-year non-compete provision (or until the end of the term of
the agreement, if longer). The Fawaz Agreement provides that he not ever reveal
or use any confidential information obtained in the course of his
employment. 

Director
Compensation 

As stated
previously, upon Charter's emergence from its Chapter 11 proceedings on November
30, 2009, a new board of directors was appointed pursuant to the Plan consisting
of W. Lance Conn, Robert Cohn, Bruce Karsh, Darren Glatt, John D. Markley, Jr.,
William McGrath, Neil Smit, Christopher Temple and Eric
Zinterhofer.  David C. Merritt was subsequently elected to the board
of directors in December 2009.  Charter's board of directors was made
up of the following individuals during the calendar year of 2009 preceding
Charter's emergence from its Chapter 11 proceedings:  Paul Allen, W.
Lance Conn, Rajive Johri, Robert P. May, David C. Merritt, Jo Lynn Allen, Neil
Smit, John H. Tory and Larry W. Wangberg.  Messrs. Conn, Merritt and
Smit are the only individuals to serve on both the former and current
boards. 

Prior to
November 30, 2009, each non-employee member of the former board of directors
received an annual retainer of $105,000 in cash. In addition, the Audit
Committee chair received $25,000 per year, and the chair of each other
committee received $10,000 per year. Each committee member also received
$1,000 for attendance at each committee meeting. Each director received $1,000
for telephonic attendance at each meeting of the full former board of directors
and $2,000 for in-person attendance. Each director of Charter was entitled to
reimbursement for costs incurred in connection with attendance at board and
committee meetings and for the cost of certain continuing director
education. 

On
January 21, 2010, the current board of directors approved a new director
compensation package.  The package includes an annual retainer of
$80,000 in cash and an annual award of $80,000 in restricted
stock.  In addition, the Audit Committee chair receives $20,000 per
year, the Compensation Committee chair receives $10,000 per year, and the chair
of each other committee receives $7,500 per year.  Each Audit
Committee member receives $15,000 per year, each Compensation Committee member
receives $10,000 per year and all other committee members receive $7,500 per
year.  The current board of directors eliminated any fees in
connection with board or committee meeting attendance. 

Messrs.
Glatt and Zinterhofer (as to Apollo Management, L.P.), Mr. Karsh (as to Oaktree
Capital Management, L.P.) and Mr. McGrath (as to Vulcan Inc.) have each
requested that all cash compensation they receive for their participation on
Charter s board of directors or committees of the board be paid directly to
their respective employers in accordance with internal
policies.  Further, Messrs. Glatt and Zinterhofer have declined the
equity portion of their compensation for participation on Charter's board of
directors. Mr. Karsh will be accepting and retaining the equity portion of his
board compensation.  In connection with his service on Charter's
former board of directors and his prior employment at Vulcan, Mr. Conn had
previously turned over all cash compensation to Vulcan through his departure
from Vulcan in May 2009. 

Directors
who are employees do not receive additional compensation for board of directors'
participation. Mr. Smit is the only director who was also an employee
during 2009. Non-employee directors are not eligible for non-equity incentive
compensation within the 2009 Executive Bonus Plan. 

86 

The
following table sets forth information as of November 30, 2009 regarding the
compensation to those non-employee members of the former board of directors
listed below for services rendered for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2009.  Even though members of the current board of directors were
appointed and served in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, none of those
directors received any compensation for their board service during
2009. 

(1) 

The
      directors received a $10,000 payment toward their annual retainer in
      January 2009.  In the first quarter, the equity portion of their
      retainer was cancelled so the monetary retainer amounts for the remaining
      quarters increased to $26,250 a quarter for April, July and October
      payments.  The amounts paid to the former board of directors
      also included $1,000 for attendance at each committee meeting and
      telephonic meeting of the full board and $2,000 for in-person attendance
      for full board meetings. Mr. Allen received an additional $20,000 for
      service as committee chair of two committees; Messrs. May and Wangberg
      each received an additional $10,000 for service as committee chairs; and
      Mr. Merritt received an additional $25,000 for service as Audit Committee
      Chair. 

Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation 

Prior to
our emergence from Chapter 11, the Compensation and Benefits Committee was
comprised of Messrs. Allen, May and Merritt. Charter's current board of
directors appointed Messrs. Cohn, Conn and Zinterhofer to the Compensation and
Benefits Committee.  No member of Charter s Compensation and Benefits
Committee was an officer or employee of Charter or any of its subsidiaries
during 2009. Mr. Allen served as a non-employee Chairman of the board prior
to emergence and Mr. Zinterhofer was elected as a non-employee Chairman of the
board upon emergence. 

During
2009: (1) none of Charter s executive officers served on the compensation
committee of any other company that has an executive officer currently serving
on Charter s board of directors or Compensation and Benefits Committee and
(2) none of Charter s executive officers served as a director of another
entity, one of whose executive officers served on the Compensation and Benefits
Committee. 

Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain
      Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
      Matters.  

The
following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2009 regarding the
beneficial ownership of Charter s Class A and Class B common stock
by: 

each
      holder of more than 5% of our outstanding shares of common
      stock; 

each
      of our directors and named executive officers;
  and 

all
      of our directors and executive officers as a
  group. 

Beneficial
ownership for the purposes of the following table is determined in accordance
with the rules and regulations of the SEC.  These rules generally
provide that a person is the beneficial owner of securities if such person has
or shares the power to vote or direct the voting thereof, or to dispose or
direct the disposition thereof or has the right to acquire such powers within 60
days.  Common stock subject to options that are currently exercisable
or exercisable within 60 days of December 31, 2009 are deemed to be outstanding
and beneficially owned by the person holding the options.  These
shares, however, are not deemed outstanding for the purposes of computing the
percentage ownership of any other person.  Percentage of beneficial
ownership is based on 112,576,872 shares of Class A common stock outstanding as
of December 31, 2009.  Except as disclosed in the footnotes to this
table, we believe that each stockholder identified in the table possesses sole
voting and investment power over all shares of 

87 

common
stock shown as beneficially owned by the stockholder.  Unless
otherwise indicated in the table or footnotes below, the address for each
beneficial owner is 12405 Powerscourt Drive, St. Louis, Missouri
63131. 

____________________ 

(1) 

Shares
      shown in the table above include shares held in the beneficial owner s
      name or jointly with others, or in the name of a bank, nominee or trustee
      for the beneficial owner s account.  The calculation of this
      percentage assumes for each person the acquisition by such person of all
      shares that may be acquired upon exercise of warrants to purchase shares
      of Class A common stock. 

The
      general partner of AP Charter Holdings, L.P. is AP Charter Holdings GP,
      LLC.  The managers of AP Charter Holdings GP, LLC are Apollo
      Management VI, L.P. and Apollo Management VII, L.P.  The general
      partner of Apollo Management VI, L.P. is AIF VI Management, LLC, and the
      general partner of Apollo Management VII, L.P. is AIF VII Management,
      LLC.  Apollo Management, L.P. is the sole member and

88 

manager
      of each of AIF VI Management, LLC and AIF VII Management,
      LLC.  The general partner of Apollo Management, L.P. is Apollo
      Management GP, LLC. 

The
      general partner of Red Bird, L.P. is Red Bird GP, Ltd. and the general
      partner of Blue Bird, L.P. is Blue Bird GP, Ltd.  The general
      partner of Green Bird, L.P. is Green Bird GP, Ltd.  Apollo SVF
      Management, L.P. is the director of each of Red Bird GP, Ltd. and Blue
      Bird GP, Ltd., and Apollo Value Management, L.P. is the director of Green
      Bird GP, Ltd.  The general partner of Apollo SVF Management,
      L.P. is Apollo SVF Management GP, LLC, and the general partner of Apollo
      Value Management, L.P. is Apollo Value Management GP,
      LLC.  Apollo Capital Management, L.P. is the sole member and
      manager of each of Apollo SVF Management GP, LLC and Apollo Value
      Management GP, LLC.  The general partner of Apollo Capital
      Management, L.P. is Apollo Capital Management GP, LLC.  Apollo
      Management Holdings, L.P. is the sole member and manager of each of Apollo
      Management GP, LLC and Apollo Capital Management GP, LLC, and Apollo
      Management Holdings GP, LLC is the general partner of Apollo Management
      Holdings, L.P. 

The
      sole shareholder of Red Bird, L.P. is Apollo SOMA Advisors, L.P., the sole
      shareholder of Blue Bird, L.P. is Apollo SVF Advisors, L.P., and the sole
      shareholder of Green Bird, L.P. is Apollo Value Advisors,
      L.P.  The general partner of Apollo SOMA Advisors, L.P. is
      Apollo SOMA Capital Management, LLC, the general partner of Apollo SVF
      Advisors, L.P. is Apollo SVF Capital Management, LLC, and the general
      partner of Apollo Value Advisors, L.P. is Apollo Value Capital Management,
      LLC.  Apollo Principal Holdings II, L.P. is the sole member and
      manager of each of Apollo SOMA Capital Management, LLC, Apollo SVF Capital
      Management, LLC and Apollo Value Capital Management,
      LLC.  Apollo Principal Holdings II GP, LLC is the general
      partner of Apollo Principal Holdings II,
L.P. 

AP
      Charter Holdings, L.P. does not have voting or dispositive power over the
      shares owned of record by any of the Apollo Partnerships, and none of the
      Apollo Partnerships have any voting or dispositive power over the shares
      owned of record by AP Charter Holdings, L.P. or any of the other Apollo
      Partnerships.  AP Charter Holdings, L.P. has granted a proxy to
      Apollo Management VI, L.P. and Apollo Management VII, L.P. to vote the
      shares of Charter Communications Inc. that AP Charter Holdings, L.P. holds
      of record.  Leon Black, Joshua Harris and Marc Rowan are the
      principal executive officers and managers of Apollo Management Holdings
      GP, LLC and Apollo Principal Holdings II GP, LLC, and as such may be
      deemed to have voting and dispositive powers with respect to the shares
      that are beneficially owned or owned of record by the Apollo
      Partnerships.  Each of Messrs. Black, Harris and Rowan, and each
      of Apollo Management VI, L.P. and Apollo Management VII, L.P., and each of
      the other general partners, managers and sole shareholders described above
      disclaims beneficial ownership of any shares of common stock beneficially
      or of record owned by any of AP Charter Holdings, L.P. or the Apollo
      Partnerships, except to the extent of any pecuniary interest
      therein. 

The
      address for AP Charter Holdings, L.P., AP Charter Holdings GP, LLC, Apollo
      SOMA Advisors, L.P., Apollo SVF Advisors, L.P., Apollo Value Advisors,
      L.P., Apollo SOMA Capital Management, LLC, Apollo SVF Capital Management,
      LLC, Apollo Value Capital Management, LLC, Apollo Principal Holdings II,
      L.P. and Apollo Principal Holdings II GP, LLC is One Manhattanville Road,
      Suite 201, Purchase, NY 10577.  The address for Red Bird, L.P.,
      Red Bird GP, Ltd., Green Bird, L.P., Green Bird GP, Ltd., Blue Bird, L.P.
      and Blue Bird GP, Ltd. is c/o Walkers Corporate Services Limited, Walker
      House, 87 Mary Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-9905.  The
      address for Apollo Management VI, L.P.; Apollo Management VII, L.P.: AIF
      VI Management, LLC: AIF VII Management, LLC; Apollo Management, L.P.;
      Apollo Management GP, LLC; Apollo SVF Management, L.P., Apollo Value
      Management, L.P., Apollo SVF Management GP, LLC, Apollo Value Management
      GP, LLC, Apollo Capital Management, L.P., Apollo Capital Management GP,
      LLC, Apollo Management Holdings, L.P.; Apollo Management Holdings GP, LLC,
      and Messrs. Black, Rowan and Harris is 9 W. 57 th 
      Street, 43 rd 
      Floor, New York, NY 10019. 

(4) 

Includes
      shares beneficially owned by Oaktree Opportunities Investments, L.P. and
      warrants beneficially owned by affiliates of Oaktree Opportunities
      Investments, L.P.  Of the amount listed, 19,725,105 shares of
      Class A common stock are held by Oaktree Opportunities Investments, L.P.;
      95,743 warrants are held by OCM Opportunities Fund V, L.P.; 215,108
      warrants are held by OCM Opportunities Fund VI, L.P.; 104,553 warrants are
      held by OCM Opportunities Fund VII Delaware, L.P.; and 13,140 warrants are
      held by Oaktree Value Opportunities Fund, L.P.  The mailing
      address for the holders listed above is c/o Oaktree Capital Management,
      L.P. 333 S. Grand Avenue, 28th Floor, Los Angeles, CA
      90071.  The general partner of Oaktree Opportunities
      Investments, L.P. is Oaktree Fund GP, LLC.  The managing member
      of Oaktree Fund GP, LLC is Oaktree Fund GP I, L.P.  The general
      partner of Oaktree Fund GP I, L.P. is Oaktree Capital I,
      L.P.  The general partner of Oaktree Capital I, L.P. is OCM
      Holdings I, LLC.  The managing member of OCM Holdings I, LLC is
      Oaktree Holdings, LLC.  The managing member of Oaktree Holdings,
      LLC is Oaktree Capital  

89 

Group,
      LLC.  The holder of a majority of the voting units of Oaktree
      Capital Group, LLC is Oaktree Capital Group Holdings, L.P.  The
      general partner of Oaktree Capital Group Holdings, L.P. is Oaktree Capital
      Group Holdings GP, LLC.  The members of Oaktree Capital Group
      Holdings GP, LLC are Kevin Clayton, John Frank, Stephen Kaplan, Bruce
      Karsh, Larry Keele, David Kirchheimer, Howard Marks and Sheldon
      Stone.  Each of the general partners, managing members, unit
      holders and members described above disclaims beneficial ownership of any
      shares of common stock beneficially or of record owned by Oaktree
      Opportunities Investments, L.P., except to the extent of any pecuniary
      interest therein.  The address for all of the entities and
      individuals identified above is 333 S. Grand Avenue, 28 th 
      Floor, Los Angeles,
CA  90071. 

(5) 

Includes
      shares and warrants exercisable for shares of Class A common
      stock.  Of the amount listed, Franklin related funds hold
      4,926,010 shares of Class A common stock and warrants exercisable for
      2,610,619 shares of Class A common stock.  The business address
      for all entities listed in the preceding sentence is Franklin Parkway, San
      Mateo, California 94403. 

(6) 

The
      managing members of Encore, LLC are Crestview Partners, L.P., Crestview
      Partners (PF), L.P., Crestview Holdings (TE), L.P., Encore (ERISA), Ltd.,
      Crestview Offshore Holdings (Cayman), L.P.   Crestview
      Partners (ERISA), L.P. is the manager of Encore (ERISA),
      Ltd.  The general partner of Crestview Partners, L.P. Crestview
      Partners (PF), L.P., Crestview Holdings (TE), L.P., Crestview Partners
      (ERISA), L.P., and Crestview Offshore Holdings (Cayman), L.P. is Crestview
      Partners GP, L.P. The general partner of Crestview Partners GP, L.P. is
      Crestview, LLC. 

The
      managing members of Encore II, LLC are Crestview Partners II, L.P.,
      Crestview Partners II (FF), L.P., Crestview Partners II (PF), L.P,
      Crestview Partners II (TE), L.P., Crestview Offshore Holdings II (Cayman),
      L.P., and Crestview Offshore Holdings II (FF Cayman), L.P.  The
      general partner of the managing members of Encore II, LLC is Crestview
      Partners II, GP. The general partner of Crestview Partners GP, L.P. is
      Crestview, LLC. 

Crestview
      LLC is managed and owned by the following four members, Volpert Investors,
      L.P., Murphy Investors, L.P., DeMartini Investors, L.P. and RJH Investment
      Partners, L.P.  Each of these four limited partnerships is owned
      solely by family members of its related senior manager, who are: Barry
      Volpert, Thomas S. Murphy, Jr., Richard DeMartini and Robert J. Hurst,
      respectively. The officers and directors of Crestview LLC have voting and
      dispositive powers with respect to the shares by beneficially owned by the
      Encore partnerships above. The officers and directors of Crestview LLC are
      as follows, Barry Volpert, Chief Executive Officer, Thomas S. Murphy, Jr.,
      President, Robert J. Hurst, Managing Director, Richard DeMartini, Managing
      Director, Jeff Marcus, Managing Director, and Bob Delaney, Managing
      Director.  The officers and directors of Crestview LLC above
      disclaims beneficial ownership of any shares of common stock beneficially
      or of record owned by the Encore partnerships except to the extent of any
      pecuniary interest therein. 

The
      business address for Encore, LLC,  Encore II, LLC, Crestview
      Partners, L.P. Crestview Partners (PF), L.P., Crestview Holdings (TE),
      L.P., Crestview Partners (ERISA), L.P., Crestview Partners II, L.P.,
      Crestview Partners II (FF), L.P., Crestview Partners II (PF), L.P,
      Crestview Partners II  (TE), L.P, Crestview Partners GP, L.P,
      Crestview Partners II, GP and Crestview, LLC  is c/o Crestview
      Partners 667 Madison Avenue, 10th Floor, New York, New York
      10065. 

The
      business address for Encore (ERISA), Ltd., Crestview Offshore Holdings
      (Cayman), L.P., Crestview Offshore Holdings II (Cayman), L.P., and
      Crestview Offshore Holdings II (FF Cayman), L.P. is Maples Corporate
      Services, Limited, PO Box 309 GT, Ugland House, George Town, Grand Cayman,
      Cayman Islands. 

(7) 

By
      virtue of being a principal at Apollo Management, L.P, Mr. Glatt may be
      deemed to have or share beneficial ownership of shares beneficially owned
      by AP Charter Holdings, L.P., Red Bird, L.P., Blue Bird, L.P.; and Green
      Bird, L.P.  Mr. Glatt expressly disclaims beneficial ownership
      of such shares, except to the extent of his direct pecuniary interest
      therein. See Note 3. 

(8) 

By
      virtue of being a member of Oaktree Capital Group Holdings GP, LLC, Mr.
      Karsh may be deemed to have or share beneficial ownership of shares or
      warrants beneficially owned by Oaktree Opportunities Investments, L.P. or
      certain of its affiliated funds.  Mr. Karsh expressly disclaims
      beneficial ownership of such shares or warrants, except to the extent of
      his direct pecuniary interest therein. See Note
  4. 

(9) 

By
      virtue of being the Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Vulcan
      Inc., Mr. McGrath may be deemed to have or share beneficial ownership of
      shares beneficially owned by CII. CII currently holds 0.19

90 

Holdco
      Units that may be exchanged for 212,923 shares of Class A common stock.
      Mr. McGrath expressly disclaims beneficial ownership of such shares,
      except to the extent of his direct pecuniary interest therein. On February
      8, 2010, Mr. Allen caused the exchange of CII's remaining Charter Holdco
      Unit for 212,923 shares of Class A common
stock. 

(10) 

By
      virtue of being a senior partner at Apollo Management, L.P, Mr.
      Zinterhofer may be deemed to have or share beneficial ownership of shares
      beneficially owned by AP Charter Holdings, L.P., Red Bird, L.P., Blue
      Bird, L.P.; and Green Bird, L.P.  Mr. Zinterhofer expressly
      disclaims beneficial ownership of such shares, except to the extent of his
      direct pecuniary interest therein. See Note
3. 

(12) 

Includes
      84,003 shares of restricted stock issued pursuant to the 2009 Stock
      Incentive Plan that are not yet vested, but eligible to be
      voted. 

(14) 

Includes
      76,366 shares of restricted stock issued pursuant to the 2009 Stock
      Incentive Plan that are not yet vested, but eligible to be
      voted. 

(15) 

Includes
      76,366 shares of restricted stock issued pursuant to the 2009 Stock
      Incentive Plan that are not yet vested, but eligible to be
      voted. 

Item 13.
 Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions, and Director Independence.  

We
maintain written policies and procedures covering related party
transactions.  The Audit Committee reviews the material facts of
related party transactions.  Management has various procedures in
place, e.g., Charter's Code of Conduct which requires annual certifications from
employees that are designed to identify potential related party
transactions.  Management brings those to the Audit Committee for
review as appropriate. 

The
following sets forth certain transactions in which we are involved and in which
the directors, executive officers and affiliates of Charter have or may have a
material interest.  A number of our debt instruments and those of our
subsidiaries require delivery of fairness opinions for transactions with
affiliates involving more than $50 million.  Such fairness opinions
have been obtained whenever required.  All of our transactions with
affiliates have been deemed by Charter's board of directors or a committee of
the board of directors to be in our best interest.  Related party
transactions are approved by the Audit Committee or another independent body of
Charter's board of directors. 

Recent
Development   Restructuring 

Paul
Allen 

In
connection with the Plan, Charter, Mr. Allen and CII entered into the Allen
Agreement, in settlement and compromise of their legal, contractual and
equitable rights, claims and remedies against Charter and its
subsidiaries.  In addition to any amounts received by virtue of CII s
holding other claims against Charter and its subsidiaries, on the Effective
Date, CII was issued 2.2 million shares of the new Charter Class B common stock
equal to 2% of the equity value of Charter, after giving effect to the Rights
Offering, but prior to issuance of warrants and equity-based awards provided for
by the Plan and 35% (determined on a fully diluted basis) of the total voting
power of all new capital stock of Charter.  See "Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" for specific ownership
information.  Each share of new Charter Class B common stock is
convertible, at the option of the holder, into one share of new Charter Class A
common stock, and is subject to significant restrictions on transfer and
conversion pursuant to the Lock-Up Agreement.  See  Part I. Item 1A.
Risk Factors  Risks Related to Ownership Positions of Charter's Principal
Shareholders   The Failure by Paul G. Allen to maintain a minimum voting
interest in us could trigger a change of control default under our subsidiary's
credit facilities.   Certain holders of new Charter Class A common
stock (and securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable therefore)
and new  

91 

Charter
Class B common stock received certain customary registration rights with respect
to their shares.  On the Effective Date, CII received: (i) 4.7 million
warrants to purchase shares of new Charter Class A common stock, (ii) $85
million principal amount of new CCH II notes (transferred from CCH I
noteholders), (iii) $25 million in cash for amounts previously owed to
CII under a management agreement described below, (iv) $20 million in cash
for reimbursement of fees and expenses in connection with the Plan, and (v) an
additional $150 million in cash.  The warrants described above have an
exercise price per share of $19.80 and expire seven years after the date of
issuance. In addition, on the Effective Date, CII retained a minority equity
interest in reorganized Charter Holdco of 1% and a right to exchange such
interest into new Charter Class A common stock. On December 28, 2009, CII
exchanged 81% of its interest in Charter Holdco, and on February 8, 2010 the
remaining interest was exchanged after which Charter Holdco became 100% owned by
Charter.  Further, Mr. Allen transferred his preferred equity interest
in CC VIII to Charter.  Mr. Allen has the right to elect up to four of
Charter's eleven board members. 

Exchange
Agreement 

On
November 30, 2009, Charter, Charter Holdco, CII and Mr. Allen entered into the
Exchange Agreement, pursuant to which Mr. Allen and certain persons and entities
affiliated with Mr. Allen (together, the  Allen Entities ) have the right and
option, at any time and from time to time on or prior to November 30, 2014, to
require us to (i) exchange all or any portion of their  membership
units in Charter Holdco (the  Holdco Units ) for $1,000 in cash and up to
1,120,621 shares of new Charter Class A common stock in a taxable transaction,
(ii) exchange 100% of the equity in such Allen Entity for $1,000 in cash and
1,120,621 shares of new Charter Class A common stock in a taxable transaction,
or (iii) permit such Allen Entity to merge with and into Charter, or a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Charter, or undertake tax-free transactions similar
to the taxable transactions in clauses (i) and (ii), provided that the exchange
rights described in clauses (ii) and (iii) are subject to certain
limitations.  The number of shares of new Charter Class A common stock
that an Allen Entity receives is subject to certain adjustments, including for
certain distributions received from Charter Holdco prior to the date the option
to exchange is exercised and for certain distributions made by Charter to
holders of its new Charter Class A common stock.  In addition, no
sooner than at least 120 days following the Effective Date, in the event that a
transaction that would constitute a Change of Control (as defined in the Lock-Up
Agreement) is approved by a majority of the members of Charter's board of
directors not affiliated with the person(s) proposing such transactions, Charter
will have the right to require the Allen Entities to effect an exchange
transaction of the type elected by the Allen Entities from subclauses (i), (ii)
or (iii) above, which election is subject to certain limitations. 

As of
November 30, 2009, there was an aggregate of 100 Holdco Units outstanding, of
which 99 were held by Charter and one (1) was held by CII.  As
permitted by the Exchange Agreement, on December 28, 2009, CII exchanged 0.81
Holdco Unit for 907,698 shares of new Charter Class A common stock plus
$1,000.  On February 8, 2010, CII exchanged its remaining 0.19 Holdco
Unit for an additional 212,923 shares of new Charter Class A common
stock.  As a result, as of February 8, 2010, Charter and its
subsidiaries hold all of the outstanding and issued Holdco Units. 

Noteholders 

Our Plan
was funded with cash on hand, the Notes Exchange and the Rights
Offering.  In addition to separate restructuring agreements entered
into with certain holders of certain of our subsidiaries  notes (the
 Noteholders ), the Noteholders entered into commitment letters with Charter
pursuant to which they agreed to exchange and/or purchase, as applicable,
certain securities of Charter.   The Rights Offering resulted in
holders of CCH I notes electing to purchase approximately $1.6 billion of new
Charter Class A common stock and certain of the Noteholders electing to exercise
an overallotment option to purchase an additional approximately $40 million of
new Charter Class A common stock.  The Plan also provided that upon
emergence from bankruptcy each holder of 10% or more of the voting power of the
Successor would have the right to nominate one member of the initial board of
directors for each 10% of voting power.  Certain of the Noteholders
met the 10% requirement and appointed members to Charter s board of directors in
accordance with the Plan, including Messrs. Zinterhofer and Glatt who are
employees of Apollo Management, L.P.; Mr. Karsh who is president of Oaktree
Capital Management, L.P.; and Mr. Cohn who was appointed by Funds advised by
Franklin Advisers, Inc.  As set forth in " Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management," funds affiliated with AP Charter
Holdings, L.P. beneficially hold approximately 31% of the new Charter Class A
common stock representing approximately 20% of the vote.  Oaktree
Opportunities Investments, L.P. and certain affiliated funds beneficially hold
approximately 18% of the new Charter Class A common stock representing
approximately 11% of the vote.  Funds advised by Franklin Advisers,
Inc. beneficially hold approximately 19% of the new Charter Class A common stock
representing approximately 12% of the vote. 

92 

Transactions
Arising Out of Our Organizational Structure 

Intercompany
Management Arrangements 

Charter
is a party to management arrangements with Charter Holdco and certain of its
subsidiaries.  Under these agreements, Charter provides management
services for the cable systems owned or operated by its
subsidiaries.  These management agreements provide for reimbursement
to Charter for all costs and expenses incurred by it for activities relating to
the ownership and operation of the managed cable systems, including corporate
overhead, administration and salary expense. 

The total
amount paid by Charter Holdco and all of its subsidiaries is limited to the
amount necessary to reimburse Charter for all of its expenses, costs, losses,
liabilities and damages paid or incurred by it in connection with the
performance of its services under the various management agreements and in
connection with its corporate overhead, administration, salary expense and
similar items.  Payment of management fees by Charter s operating
subsidiaries is subject to certain restrictions under the credit facilities and
indentures of such subsidiaries.  If any portion of the management fee
due and payable is not paid, it is deferred by Charter and accrued as a
liability of such subsidiaries.  For the year ended December 31, 2009,
the subsidiaries of Charter Holdings paid a total of $354 million in management
fees to Charter including reimbursement of reorganization items incurred in
connection with the Plan. 

Mutual
Services Agreement 

Charter
and Charter Holdco are parties to a mutual services agreement whereby each party
shall provide rights and services to the other parties as may be reasonably
requested for the management of the entities involved and their subsidiaries,
including the cable systems owned by their subsidiaries all on a
cost-reimbursement basis.  The officers and employees of each party
are available to the other party to provide these rights and services, and all
expenses and costs incurred in providing these rights and services are paid by
Charter.  Each  party will indemnify and hold harmless the
other party and its directors, officers and employees from and against any and
all claims that may be made against any of them in connection with the mutual
services agreement except due to its or their gross negligence or willful
misconduct.  For the year ended December 31, 2009, Charter paid
approximately $117 million to Charter Holdco for services rendered pursuant to
the mutual services agreement.  All such amounts are reimbursable to
Charter pursuant to a management arrangement with our subsidiaries. 

Previous
Management Agreement with Charter Investment, Inc. 

Prior to
November 12, 1999, CII provided management and consulting services to our
operating subsidiaries for a fee equal to 3.5% of the gross revenues of the
systems then owned, plus reimbursement of expenses.  Any deferred
amount of this management fee was accrued with payment at the discretion of CII,
bearing interest at the rate of 10% per year, compounded annually, from the date
it was due and payable until the date it was paid.  As previously
noted, in connection with the consummation of the Allen Agreement under the
Plan, CII was paid at closing $25 million in cash in full satisfaction of
amounts due and owing to CII under this management agreement. 

CC
VIII, LLC 

Charter
acquired certain cable systems owned by Bresnan Communications Company Limited
Partnership in February 2000.  As part of a subsequent settlement in
2005 regarding an issue as to whether the documentation for the Bresnan
transaction was correct and complete with regard to the ultimate ownership of
the interest in CC VIII (the  CC VIII Settlement ), CII retained 30% of the CC
VIII preferred membership interest (the  Remaining Interests ).  CCHC,
LLC ( CCHC ) (a direct subsidiary of Charter Holdco and the direct parent of
Charter Holdings) also issued to CII a subordinated exchangeable note with an
initial accreted value of $48 million, accreting at 14% per annum, compounded
quarterly, with a 15-year maturity (the  CCHC note ). 

Charter
settled certain litigation with its former law firm to recover damages arising
from the Bresnan transaction and the CC VIII Settlement.  Charter and
its subsidiaries had agreed to reimburse CII and affiliates for all reasonable
expenses incurred as a result of its cooperation with Charter in the
litigation.  In early 2009, Charter reimbursed Vulcan Inc.
approximately $3 million in legal expenses. 

93 

As
previously noted, in connection with the consummation of the Allen Agreement
under the Plan, Mr. Allen transferred the Remaining Interests to Charter and the
CCHC note was cancelled. 

Third
Party Business Relationships in which a Principal Shareholder has or had an
Interest 

Cingular
Wireless 

A
subsidiary of Vulcan. Inc. ("Vulcan") has entered into an agreement with New
Cingular Wireless National Accounts, LLC ( Cingular ) to receive discounted
wireless services for use by Vulcan and its named affiliates.  Charter
was previously named as one of Vulcan s affiliates to receive discounted
wireless services.  Charter was billed directly by Cingular with the
discounts applied, and Charter s portion of the discounted wireless services
under the agreement resulted in approximately $1 million per
year.  Charter made no payments to Vulcan in connection with the
Cingular wireless services.  Charter no longer participates in this
arrangement with Cingular. 

9
OM, Inc. (formerly known as Digeo, Inc.) 

Mr.
Allen, through his 100% ownership of Vulcan Ventures Incorporated ("Vulcan
Ventures"), owns a majority interest in a company formerly known as Digeo, Inc.
and indirectly owns a subsidiary of same, a company formerly known as Digeo
Interactive, LLC. 

On June
30, 2003, Charter Holdco entered into an agreement with Motorola, Inc. for the
purchase of 100,000 DVR units.  The software for these DVR units was
being supplied by Digeo Interactive, LLC under a license agreement entered into
in April 2004.  The license granted for each unit deployed under the
agreement is valid for five years.  In addition, Charter paid certain
other fees including a per-headend license fee and maintenance
fees.  Maximum license and maintenance fees during the term of the
agreement were expected to be approximately $7 million.  The agreement
included an  MFN clause  pursuant to which Charter was entitled to receive
contract terms, considered on the whole, and license fees, considered apart from
other contract terms, no less favorable than those accorded to any other Digeo
customer.  Charter paid $2 million in license and maintenance fees for
the year ended December 31, 2009. 

In May
2004, Charter Holdco entered into a binding term sheet with Digeo Interactive,
LLC for the development, testing and purchase of 70,000 Digeo PowerKey DVR
units.  The term sheet provided that the parties would proceed in good
faith to negotiate, prior to year-end 2004, definitive agreements for the
development, testing and purchase of the DVR units and that the parties would
enter into a license agreement for Digeo s proprietary software on terms
substantially similar to the terms of the license agreement described
above.  In November 2004, Charter Holdco and Digeo Interactive, LLC
executed the license agreement and in December 2004, the parties executed the
purchase agreement, each on terms substantially similar to the binding term
sheet.  Total purchase price and license and maintenance fees during
the term of the definitive agreements were expected to be approximately $41
million.  The definitive agreements were terminable at no penalty to
Charter in certain circumstances.  In November 2007, Charter entered
into a statement of work with Digeo for the development, testing and delivery of
its proprietary software over a switched digital video set-top box environment
in a number of our western division systems.  The maximum amount of
fees during the term of the statement of work was expected to be approximately
$300,000.  Charter has paid approximately $27,000 pursuant to this
statement of work. 

In May
2008, Charter Operating entered into an agreement with Digeo Interactive, LLC
for the minimum purchase of high-definition DVR units for approximately $21
million.  This minimum purchase commitment was subject to reduction as
a result of certain specified events such as the failure to deliver units timely
and catastrophic failure.  The software for these units was supplied
under a software license agreement with Digeo Interactive, LLC; the cost of
which was expected to be approximately $2 million for the initial licenses and
on-going maintenance fees of approximately $0.3 million annually, subject to
reduction to coincide with any reduction in the minimum purchase
commitment.  For the year ended December 31, 2009, Charter purchased
approximately $19 million of DVR units from Digeo Interactive, LLC under these
agreements. 

In
October 2009, substantially all of Digeo, Inc. and Digeo Interactive, LLC's
assets were sold to ARRIS Group, Inc., an unrelated third party.  In
connection with this sale of assets, Digeo, Inc. changed its name to 9 OM, Inc.
and Digeo Interactive, LLC changed its name to 9 OM, LLC.  Ms. Allen
was a director of Charter and a director and Vice President of Vulcan
Ventures.  Mr. Conn is a director of Charter and was Executive Vice
President of Vulcan Ventures until his resignation in May 2009.  Mr.
McGrath is a director of Charter and is Vice President and  

94 

Secretary
of Vulcan Ventures, a director and Vice President of 9 OM, Inc. and a manager
and Vice President of 9 OM, LLC. 

Item 14.   Principal Accounting Fees and
Services . 

Principal
Accounting Firm 

KPMG
acted as our principal accountant in 2009 and 2008 and KPMG is expected to serve
as our independent registered public accounting firm for 2010. 

Services
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Audit
Committee has adopted policies and procedures requiring the pre-approval of
non-audit services that may be provided by our independent registered public
accounting firm. We have also complied and will continue to comply with the
provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related SEC rules
pertaining to auditor independence and audit committee pre-approval of audit and
non-audit services. 

Audit
Fees 

During
the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we incurred fees and related
expenses for professional services rendered by KPMG for the audits of our and
our subsidiaries  financial statements (including two subsidiaries in 2009 and
one subsidiary in 2008 that are also public registrants), for the review of our
and our subsidiaries  interim financial statements and one registration
statement in 2009 and two offering memoranda in 2008 totaling approximately $5.5
million and $3.9 million, respectively. 

Audit-Related
Fees 

We
incurred fees and related expenses to KPMG of approximately $0.1 million
during each of the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. These services
were primarily related to responses to legal inquiries. 

Tax
Fees 

None. 

All
Other Fees 

None. 

The Audit
Committee appoints, retains, compensates and oversees the independent registered
public accounting firm (subject, if applicable, to board of director and/or
stockholder ratification), and approves in advance all fees and terms for the
audit engagement and non-audit engagements where non-audit services are not
prohibited by Section 10A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended with respect to independent registered public accounting firms.
Pre-approvals of non-audit services are sometimes delegated to a single member
of the Audit Committee. However, any pre-approvals made by the Audit Committee s
designee are presented at the Audit Committee s next regularly scheduled
meeting. The Audit Committee has an obligation to consult with management on
these matters. The Audit Committee approved 100% of the KPMG fees for the years
ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. Each year, including 2009, with respect
to the proposed audit engagement, the Audit Committee reviews the proposed risk
assessment process in establishing the scope of examination and the reports to
be rendered. 

In its
capacity as a committee of the board, the Audit Committee oversees the work of
the independent registered public accounting firm (including resolution of
disagreements between management and the public accounting firm regarding
financial reporting) for the purpose of preparing or issuing an audit report or
performing other audit, review or attest services. The independent registered
public accounting firm reports directly to the Audit Committee. In performing
its functions, the Audit Committee undertakes those tasks and responsibilities
that, in its judgment, most effectively contribute to and implement the purposes
of the Audit Committee charter. For more detail of the Audit Committee s
authority and responsibilities, see the Audit Committee charter on Charter s
website, www.charter.com. 

95 

PART IV 

Item 15.   Exhibits and Financial Statement
Schedules.  

(a) 

The
      following documents are filed as part of this annual
    report: 

(1) 

Financial
      Statements. 

A listing
of the financial statements, notes and reports of independent public accountants
required by Item 8 begins on page F-1 of this annual report. 

(2) 

Financial
      Statement Schedules. 

No
financial statement schedules are required to be filed by Items 8 and 15(d)
because they are not required or are not applicable, or the required information
is set forth in the applicable financial statements or notes
thereto. 

(3) 

The
      index to the exhibits begins on page E-1 of this annual
      report. 

We agree
to furnish to the SEC, upon request, copies of any long-term debt instruments
that authorize an amount of securities constituting 10% or less of the total
assets of Charter and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. 

96 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, Charter Communications, Inc. has duly caused this annual report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

CHARTER
      COMMUNICATIONS, INC., 

Registrant 

By: 

/s/
      Neil Smit   

Neil
      Smit 

President
      and Chief Executive Officer 

Date:
      February 26, 2010 

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of Charter Communications, Inc.
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 

Signature  

Title  

Date  

/s/ Neil Smit

Neil
      Smit 

President,
      Chief Executive Officer, Director 

                (Principal
      Executive Officer) 

February
      26, 2010 

/s/
      Eloise E. Schmitz 

Eloise
      E. Schmitz 

Chief
      Financial Officer 

                (Principal
      Financial Officer) 

February
      26, 2010 

/s/
      Kevin D. Howard 

Kevin
      D. Howard 

Chief
      Accounting Officer 

                (Principal
      Accounting Officer) 

February
      26, 2010 

/s/
      Eric L. Zinterhofer 

Eric
      L. Zinterhofer 

Director 

February
      26, 2010 

/s/
      W. Lance Conn 

W.
      Lance Conn 

Director 

February
      26, 2010 

/s/
      Darren Glatt 

Darren
      Glatt 

Director 

February
      26, 2010 

/s/
      Bruce A. Karsh 

Bruce
      A. Karsh 

Director 

February
      26, 2010 

/s/
      John D. Markley, Jr. 

John
      D. Markley, Jr. 

Director 

February
      26, 2010 

/s/
      William L. McGrath 

William
      L. McGrath 

Director 

February
      26, 2010 

/s/
      David C. Merritt 

David
      C. Merritt 

Director 

February
      26, 2010 

/s/
      Christopher M. Temple 

Christopher
      M. Temple 

Director 

February
      26, 2010 

/s/
      Robert Cohn 

Robert
      Cohn 

Director 

February 26,
      2010 

S-1 

Exhibit Index 

(Exhibits
are listed by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item 601
in Regulation S-K). 

E-1 

E-2 

E-3 

* 

Filed
      herewith. 

+ 

Management
      compensatory plan or
arrangement. 

E-4 

INDEX
TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

F-1 

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board
of Directors and Shareholders 

      Charter
Communications, Inc.: 

We have
audited the accompanying consolidated   balance sheets of
Charter Communications, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 (Successor
Company) and 2008 (Predecessor Company), (collectively, the Company) and the
related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity
(deficit), and cash flows for the one month ended December 31, 2009 (Successor
Company), the eleven months ended November 30, 2009 (Predecessor Company), and
for each of the years in the two year period ended December 31, 2008
(Predecessor Company). We also have audited the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in
 Internal Control - Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for these
consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control
over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting (Item 9A). Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements and an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial
reporting based on our audits. 

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's
assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

In our
opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Charter Communications, Inc.
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 (Successor Company) and 2008
(Predecessor Company), and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for the one month ended December 31, 2009 (Successor Company), the eleven months
ended November 30, 2009 (Predecessor Company), and for each of the years in the
two year period ended December 31, 2008 (Predecessor Company), in conformity
with US generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the
Company maintained in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established
in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 

As
discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
filed a petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States
Bankruptcy Code on March 27, 2009. The Company s plan of reorganization

F-2 

became
effective and the Company emerged from bankruptcy protection on November 30,
2009. In connection with its emergence from bankruptcy, the Company adopted
fresh-start accounting in conformity with AICPA Statement of Position 90-7,
 Financial Reporting by
Entities in Reorganization Under the Bankruptcy Code  (included in FASB
ASC Topic 852 ,
Reorganizations),  effective as of November 30, 2009. Accordingly, the
Company s consolidated financial statements prior to November 30, 2009 are not
comparable to its consolidated financial statements for periods after November
30, 2009. 

As
discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
January 1, 2009, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 160,  Noncontrolling
Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements   An Amendment of ARB No. 51
 (included in FASB ASC Topic 810,  Consolidations ). 

/s/
KPMG 

St.
Louis, Missouri 

      February
26, 2010 

F-3 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

      CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS 

      (dollars
in millions, except share data) 

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements. 

F-4 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

      CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

      (dollars
in millions, except per share and share data)  

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements. 

F-5 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

      CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY (DEFICIT) 

      (dollars
in millions)  

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements. 

F-6 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

      CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

      (dollars
in millions) 

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements. 

F-7 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

1. 

Organization
      and Basis of Presentation 

Organization 

Charter
Communications, Inc. ( Charter ) is a holding company whose principal asset is a
controlling common equity interest in Charter Communications Holding Company,
LLC ( Charter Holdco ).  Charter Holdco is the sole owner of Charter s
subsidiaries where the underlying operations reside, which are collectively
referred to herein as the "Company."  All significant intercompany
accounts and transactions among consolidated entities have been
eliminated. 

The
Company is a broadband communications company operating in the United
States.  The Company offers to residential and commercial customers
traditional cable video programming (basic and digital video), high-speed
Internet services, and telephone services, as well as advanced broadband
services such as high definition television, Charter OnDemand , and digital
video recorder ( DVR ) service.  The Company sells its cable video
programming, high-speed Internet, telephone, and advanced broadband services
primarily on a subscription basis.  The Company also sells local
advertising on cable networks. 

Basis
of Presentation 

The
consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
( GAAP ).  Effective December 1, 2009, the Company applied fresh start
accounting which requires assets and liabilities to be reflected at fair value.
The financial information set forth in this report, unless otherwise expressly
set forth or as the context otherwise indicates, reflects the consolidated
results of operations and financial condition of Charter and its subsidiaries
for the period following November 30, 2009 ( Successor ), and of Charter and its
subsidiaries for the periods through November 30, 2009
( Predecessor ). 

The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period.  Areas involving significant judgments
and estimates include capitalization of labor and overhead costs; depreciation
and amortization costs; impairments of property, plant and equipment,
intangibles and goodwill; income taxes; contingencies; and fresh start
accounting.  Actual results could differ from those
estimates. 

Certain
prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2009 presentation,
including the reflection of non-vested restricted stock as temporary
equity. 

2. 

Emergence
      from Reorganization Proceedings and Related
  Events 

On March
27, 2009, the Company and certain affiliates (collectively, the  Debtors ) filed
voluntary petitions in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern
District of New York (the  Bankruptcy Court ) to reorganize under Chapter 11 of
the United States Code (the  Bankruptcy Code ).  The Chapter 11 cases
were jointly administered under the caption In re Charter Communications, Inc.,
et al., Case No. 09-11435.  On May 7, 2009, the Company filed a Joint
Plan of Reorganization (the "Plan") and a related disclosure statement (the
 Disclosure Statement ) with the Bankruptcy Court.  The Plan was
confirmed by order of the Bankruptcy Court on November 17, 2009 ( Confirmation
Order ), and became effective on November 30, 2009 (the  Effective Date ), the
date on which the Company emerged from protection under Chapter 11 of the
Bankruptcy Code. 

As
provided in the Plan and the Confirmation Order, (i) the notes and bank debt of
Charter Communications Operating, LLC ( Charter Operating ) and CCO Holdings,
LLC ( CCO Holdings ) remained outstanding; (ii) holders of approximately $1.5
billion of notes issued by CCH II, LLC ( CCH II ) received new CCH II notes (the
 Notes Exchange  (iii) holders of notes issued by CCH I, LLC ( CCH I )
received 21.1 million shares of new Charter Class A common
stock;  (iv) holders of notes issued by CCH I Holdings, LLC ( CIH )
received 6.4 million warrants to purchase shares of new Charter Class A common
stock with an exercise price of $46.86 per share that expire five years from the
date of issuance; (v) holders of notes issued by Charter Communications
Holdings, LLC  

F-8 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

( Charter
Holdings ) received 1.3 million warrants to purchase shares of new Charter Class
A common stock with an exercise price of $51.28 per share that expire five years
from the date of issuance; (vi) holders of convertible notes issued by Charter
received $25 million and 5.5 million shares of preferred stock issued by
Charter; and (vii) all previously outstanding shares of Charter Class A and
Class B common stock were cancelled.  In addition, as part of the
Plan, the holders of CCH I notes received and transferred to Mr. Paul G. Allen,
Charter s principal stockholder, $85 million of new CCH II notes.  The
Plan resulted in the reduction of the principal amount of the Company s debt by
approximately $8 billion, reducing its interest expense by approximately $830
million annually. 

The
consummation of the Plan was funded with cash on hand, the Notes Exchange, and
net proceeds of approximately $1.6 billion of an equity rights offering (the
 Rights Offering ) in which holders of CCH I notes purchased new Charter
Class A common stock. 

In
connection with the Plan, Charter, Mr. Allen and Charter Investment, Inc.
( CII ) entered into a separate restructuring agreement (as amended, the  Allen
Agreement ), in settlement and compromise of their legal, contractual and
equitable rights, claims and remedies against Charter and its
subsidiaries.  In addition to any amounts received by virtue of CII s
holding other claims against Charter and its subsidiaries, on the Effective
Date, CII was issued 2.2 million shares of the new Charter Class B common stock
equal to 2% of the equity value of Charter, after giving effect to the Rights
Offering, but prior to issuance of warrants and equity-based awards provided for
by the Plan and 35% (determined on a fully diluted basis) of the total voting
power of all new capital stock of Charter.  Each share of new Charter Class
B common stock is convertible, at the option of the holder, into one share of
new Charter Class A common stock, and is subject to significant restrictions on
transfer and conversion.  Certain holders of new Charter Class A
common stock (and securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable
therefore) and new Charter Class B common stock received certain customary
registration rights with respect to their shares.  On the Effective
Date, CII received: (i) 4.7 million warrants to purchase shares of new Charter
Class A common stock, (ii) $85 million principal amount of new CCH II notes
(transferred from CCH I noteholders), (iii) $25 million in cash for amounts
previously owed to CII under a management agreement, (iv) $20 million in
cash for reimbursement of fees and expenses in connection with the Plan, and (v)
an additional $150 million in cash.  The warrants described above have
an exercise price of $19.80 per share and expire seven years after the date of
issuance. In addition, on the Effective Date, CII retained a minority equity
interest in reorganized Charter Holdco of 1% and a right to exchange such
interest into new Charter Class A common stock. On December 28, 2009, CII
exchanged 81% of its interest in Charter Holdco, and on February 8, 2010 the
remaining interest was exchanged after which Charter Holdco became 100% owned by
Charter.  Further, Mr. Allen transferred his preferred equity interest
in CC VIII, LLC ( CC VIII ) to Charter.  Mr. Allen has the right to
elect up to four of Charter's eleven board members. 

Fresh Start Accounting    Upon
the Company s emergence from bankruptcy, the Company adopted fresh start
accounting. This resulted in the Company becoming a new entity on
December 1, 2009, with a new capital structure, a new accounting basis in
the identifiable assets and liabilities assumed and no retained earnings or
accumulated losses. Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements on or
after December 1, 2009 are not comparable to the consolidated financial
statements prior to that date. The financial statements for the periods ended
prior to November 30, 2009 do not include the effect of any changes in our
capital structure or changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities as a
result of fresh start accounting. 

The
Company selected December 1, 2009 for adoption of fresh start accounting.
Accordingly, the results of operations of the Company for the eleven months
ended November 30, 2009 include reorganization items of $644 million and a
pre-emergence gain of $6.8 billion primarily resulting from the discharge of
long-term debt under the Plan. In addition, we recorded a pre-tax credit to
earnings of $5.7 billion resulting from the aggregate changes to the net
carrying value of our pre-emergence assets and liabilities to record their fair
values under fresh start accounting. 

Fresh
start accounting provides, among other things, for a determination of the value
to be assigned to the equity of the emerging company as of a date selected for
financial reporting purposes. In the disclosure statement related to the Plan,
the reorganization value of the Company was set forth as approximately $14.1
billion to $16.6 billion, with a midpoint estimate of $15.4 billion.
Reorganization value represents the amount of resources available for the
satisfaction of post-petition liabilities and allowed claims, as negotiated
between the Debtors and their creditors.  

F-9 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

Reorganization
value, along with other terms of the Plan, was determined after extensive
arms-length negotiations with the Company s creditors.  The value was
based upon expected future cash flows of the business after emergence from
Chapter 11, discounted at rates reflecting perceived business and financial
risks (the discounted cash flows). This valuation and a valuation using market
value multiples for peer companies were blended to arrive at the reorganization
value. Reorganization value is intended to approximate the amount a willing
buyer would pay for the assets of the Company immediately after the
reorganization. 

The
valuation analysis relied predominantly on the discounted cash flows ( DCF )
analysis and the comparable company analysis.  While a precedent
transaction analysis was performed, the reliance on such methodology for
purposes of determining the reorganization value was minimal.  The
precedent transaction analysis is based on the enterprise values of companies
involved in public merger and acquisition transactions that have operating and
financial characteristics similar to the Company.  Due to factors
including, (i) the market environment is not identical for transactions
occurring at different periods, and (ii) circumstances pertaining to the
financial position of the company may have an impact on the resulting purchase
price, less reliance is applied to the precedent transaction
analysis.  A more detailed explanation of the DCF analysis and
comparable company analysis is discussed below. 

The basis
for the DCF analysis was the projections published in the Plan. These
five-year projections were based on management s assumptions including among
others, penetration rates for basic and digital video, high-speed Internet, and
telephone; revenue growth rates; operating margins; and capital
expenditures.  The assumptions are derived based on the Company s and
its peers  historical operating performance adjusted for current and expected
competitive and economic factors surrounding the cable industry.  The
DCF analysis was completed using discount rates ranging from 10.5% to 11.5%
based on the Company s cost of equity and after-tax cost of debt and perpetuity
growth rates of 2.5% - 3.5%.  The reorganization value and the
resulting equity value are highly dependent on the achievement of the future
financial results contemplated in the projections that were published in the
Plan. The estimates and assumptions made in the valuation are inherently subject
to significant uncertainties, many of which are beyond its control, and there is
no assurance that these results can be achieved. The primary assumptions for
which there is a reasonable possibility of the occurrence of a variation that
would have significantly affected the reorganization value include the
assumptions regarding revenue growth, programming expense growth rates, the
amount and timing of capital expenditures and the discount rate
utilized. 

The
valuation also utilized a comparable companies methodology which identified a
group of publicly traded companies whose financial and operating characteristics
were similar to those of Charter as a whole; examined the trading prices for the
equity securities of such companies in the public markets; added the aggregate
amount of outstanding net debt for such companies (at book value and at current
market values); and noncontrolling interest less the market value of
unconsolidated investments.  A range of valuation multiples was then
applied to the projections to derive a range of implied enterprise values for
Charter. The multiples ranged from 5.0 to 6.0 depending on the comparable
company. 

Based on
conditions in the cable industry and general economic conditions, the mid-point
of the range of valuations was used to determine the reorganization
value.  Under fresh start accounting, this reorganization value was
allocated to the Company s assets based on their respective fair
values.  The reorganization value, after adjustments for working
capital, is reduced by the fair value of debt and other noncurrent liabilities,
and preferred stock with the remainder representing the value to common
shareholders.  The market capitalization of Charter s common stock may
differ materially from this value. 

The
significant assumptions related to the valuations of our assets in connection
with fresh start accounting include the following: 

Property, plant and equipment
   Property, plant and equipment was valued at fair value of $6.8 billion
as of November 30, 2009.  In establishing fair value for the vast
majority of the Company s property, plant and equipment, the cost approach was
utilized. The cost approach considers the amount required to replace an asset by
constructing or purchasing a new asset with similar utility, then adjusts the
value in consideration of all forms of depreciation as of the appraisal date as
described below: 

F-10 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

Physical
      depreciation   the loss in value or usefulness attributable solely to use
      of the asset and physical causes such as wear and tear and exposure to the
      elements. 

Functional
      obsolescence   a loss in value is due to factors inherent in the asset
      itself and due to changes in technology, design or process resulting in
      inadequacy, overcapacity, lack of functional utility or excess operating
      costs. 

Economic
      obsolescence   loss in value by unfavorable external conditions such as
      economics of the industry or geographic area, or change in
      ordinances. 

The cost
approach relies on management s assumptions regarding current material and labor
costs required to rebuild and repurchase significant components of our property,
plant and equipment along with assumptions regarding the age and estimated
useful lives of our property, plant and equipment. 

Intangible Assets    The
Company identified the following intangible assets to be valued:  (i)
franchise marketing rights, (ii) customer relationships, and (iii)
trademarks. 

Franchise
marketing rights and customer relationships were valued using an income approach
and were valued at $5.3 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively, as of November
30, 2009. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for a description
of the methods used to value intangible assets. 

The
relief from royalty method was used to value trademarks at $158 million as of
November 30, 2009. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for a
description of the methods used to value intangible assets. 

Long-Term Debt    Long-term
debt was valued at fair value using quoted market prices. 

The
adjustments presented below are to our November 30, 2009 balance sheet. The
balance sheet reorganization adjustments presented below summarize the impact of
the Plan and the adoption of fresh start accounting as of the Effective
Date. 

F-11 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

      REORGANIZED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 

F-12 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

Explanatory
Notes  

(1)  Represents
      amounts recorded on the Effective Date for the implementation of the Plan,
      including the settlement of liabilities subject to compromise and related
      payments, the issuance of new debt and repayment of old debt,
      distributions of cash and new shares of common and preferred stock, and
      the cancellation of Predecessor s common
stock. 

(2)  Cash
      effects of the Plan: 

Proceeds
      from Rights Offering 

$  
              1,663  

Less:
      financing fees 

(49  
              )  

Rights
      Offering net proceeds 

1,614  

Repayment
      of CCH II notes and accrued interest 

(1,112  
              )  

Payment
      of Charter Operating interest rate swap termination
    liability 

(495  
              )  

Payments
      to CII 

(195  
              )  

Payment
      of accrued interest on reinstated debt 

(93  
              )  

Escrow
      amounts reclassed to restricted cash 

(56  
              )  

Payment
      of CCH II debt exchange fees 

(39  
              )  

Payment
      for settlement of Charter convertible notes 

(25  
              )  

Net
      change in cash and cash equivalents 

$  
              (401  
              )  

This
entry records the proceeds from the Rights Offering and the payment of certain
bankruptcy obligations on November 30, 2009. Financing fees of $49 million
related to the Rights Offering was recorded as a contra to additional paid-in
capital.  Debt exchange fees paid to existing creditors of $39 million
related to the exchange of old CCH II notes for new CCH II notes was recorded as
an offset to the gain due to Plan effects.  Cash of $56 million
reclassified to restricted cash represents amounts held in escrow accounts
pending final resolution from the Bankruptcy Court. 

(3)  Represents
      payment of the Charter Operating interest rate swap termination liability
      and accrued interest on reinstated debt and the reclassification of $40
      million of certain other liabilities previously classified as subject to
      compromise. 

(4)  Represents
      the reclassification of $11.7 billion of debt from current to long-term as
      part of the reinstatement of the debt and new CCH II notes issued in
      connection with the following: 

(5)
      Represents the reclassification of $36 million of other long-term
      liabilities previously classified as subject to compromise and the fair
      value of preferred stock of $145 million issued to holders of Charter
      convertible notes.  See Note 10 to the consolidated financial
      statements. 

F-13 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

(6)
      Represents the disposition of liabilities subject to
      compromise: 

(7)  Represents
      the transfer of Mr. Allen s preferred equity interest in CC VIII to
      Charter for $150 million and the elimination of the unvested portion of
      restricted stock as a result of cancellation of such restricted
      stock. 

(8)  Reconciliation
      of reorganization value to determination of
  equity: 

F-14 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

(9)  As
      a result of the Plan, the adjustment to accumulated deficit recorded the
      elimination of the Predecessor s common stock, additional paid-in-capital,
      temporary equity and noncontrolling interest and recorded the gain to
      effects of the Plan of $6.8 billion.  The gain due to effects of the
      Plan is calculated as follows: 

Liabilities
      subject to compromise discharged at emergence 

$  
                7,829  

Issuance
      of common stock 

(297  
                )  

Loss
      on exchange of CCH II notes 

(351  
                )  

Issuance
      of preferred stock 

(145  
                )  

Issuance
      of CCH II bonds to CCH I noteholders 

(101  
                )  

Issuance
      of warrants 

(90  
                )  

Payment
      for settlement of Charter convertible notes 

(25  
                )  

(10)  Represents
      the reclassification of noncontrolling interest to accumulated deficit and
      accumulated other comprehensive loss as a result of the change in Mr.
      Allen s interest in Charter Holdco from 47% to
  1%. 

(11)  The
      following table summarizes the allocation of the reorganization value to
      Charter s assets at the date of emergence as shown in the reorganized
      consolidated balance sheet as of November 30,
  2009: 

Liabilities
were also adjusted to fair value in the application of fresh start accounting
resulting in the reduction of long-term debt by $502 million based on market
values of Charter s reinstated debt instruments as of November 30, 2009. 
See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.   In addition,
deferred tax liabilities of $201 million were recorded in accordance with
accounting guidance regarding reorganizations and income taxes .   

(12)   The
      adjustments required to report assets and liabilities at fair value under
      fresh start accounting resulted in a pre-tax gain of $5.7 billion, which
      was reported as gain due to fresh start accounting adjustments in the

F-15 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

            NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

            DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

            (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

consolidated
      statement of operations for the eleven months ended November
      30, 2009.  Income tax benefit for the eleven months ended
      November 30, 2009 includes $92 million of benefit related to these
      adjustments and to gains due to Plan effects, increasing the impact on net
      income and accumulated deficit to $5.8 billion.  Also represents
      the elimination of accumulated other comprehensive
  loss. 

3. 

Summary
      of Significant Accounting Policies 

Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities 

The
Company consolidates variable interest entities based upon evaluation of the
Company s ability to make decisions about another entity s activities, its
obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity, and its right to receive
the expected residual returns of the entity. 

Until the
Effective Date, the Company had a 53% controlling common equity interest in
Charter Holdco.  The Company has been the sole manager of Charter
Holdco and had 100% of its voting membership units.  The Company
determined that Charter Holdco was a variable interest entity based upon Charter
Holdco s owners holding voting rights disproportionate to their economic
interest and the Company s obligation to absorb all of the expected losses of
Charter Holdco.  Until the Effective Date, membership units of Charter
Holdco were also owned by entities owned by Mr. Paul G. Allen and were
considered related parties of the Company. 

There
were no restrictions over the Company s control of Charter Holdco s operations
or assets.  As a result of being the most closely associated with
Charter Holdco, the Company determined that it was the primary beneficiary
within the related party group and that the financial results of Charter Holdco
should be consolidated with the Company.  On the Effective Date, CII
retained a minority equity interest in reorganized Charter Holdco and a right to
exchange such interest into new Charter Class A common stock.  On
December 28, 2009, CII exchanged 81% of its interest in Charter Holdco, and on
February 8, 2010 the remaining interest was exchanged after which Charter Holdco
became 100% owned by Charter.  The Company no longer considers Charter
Holdco to be a variable interest entity as of the Effective Date. 

Charter
Holdco holds broadband communication businesses that are managed by the
Company.  All income and expenses generated by Charter Holdco are
consolidated into the Company.  Charter Holdco also holds all of the
cash flows reported by the Company.  All liabilities held by Charter
Holdco are consolidated into the Company.  The Company has not
provided financial or other support to Charter Holdco that it was not previously
contractually required to provide. 

For the
year ended December 31, 2009, the Company has not experienced any
reconsideration events that would indicate any other variable interest entities
that would require consolidation. 

Cash and Cash
Equivalents  

The
Company considers all highly liquid investments with maturities at purchase of
three months or less to be cash equivalents.  These investments are
carried at cost, which approximates market value.  Cash and cash
equivalents consist primarily of money market funds and commercial
paper. 

Property, Plant and
Equipment  

Additions
to property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost, including all material,
labor and certain indirect costs associated with the construction of cable
transmission and distribution facilities.  While the Company s
capitalization is based on specific activities, once capitalized, costs are
tracked by fixed asset category at the cable system level and not on a specific
asset basis.  For assets that are sold or retired, the estimated
historical cost and related accumulated depreciation is
removed.  Costs associated with initial customer installations and the
additions of network equipment necessary to enable advanced services are
capitalized.  Costs capitalized as part of initial customer
installations include materials, labor, and certain indirect
costs.  Indirect costs are associated with the activities of the
Company s personnel who assist in connecting and activating the new service and
consist of  

F-16 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

compensation and indirect costs associated with these support
functions.  Indirect costs primarily include employee benefits and
payroll taxes, direct variable costs associated with capitalizable activities,
consisting primarily of installation and construction vehicle costs, the cost of
dispatch personnel and indirect costs directly attributable to capitalizable
activities.  The costs of disconnecting service at a customer s
dwelling or reconnecting service to a previously installed dwelling are charged
to operating expense in the period incurred.  Costs for repairs and
maintenance are charged to operating expense as incurred, while plant and
equipment replacement and betterments, including replacement of cable drops from
the pole to the dwelling, are capitalized.

Depreciation
is recorded using the straight-line composite method over management s estimate
of the useful lives of the related assets as follows: 

Cable
      distribution systems 

7-20 years 

Customer
      equipment and installations 

4-8 years 

Vehicles
      and equipment 

1-6 years 

Buildings
      and leasehold improvements 

15-40 years 

Furniture,
      fixtures and equipment 

6-10 years 

Asset
Retirement Obligations 

Certain
of the Company s franchise agreements and leases contain provisions requiring
the Company to restore facilities or remove equipment in the event that the
franchise or lease agreement is not renewed.  The Company expects to
continually renew its franchise agreements and have concluded that substantially
all of the related franchise rights are indefinite lived intangible
assets.  Accordingly, the possibility is remote that the Company would
be required to incur significant restoration or removal costs related to these
franchise agreements in the foreseeable future.  A liability is
required to be recognized for an asset retirement obligation in the period in
which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be
made.  The Company has not recorded an estimate for potential
franchise related obligations, but would record an estimated liability in the
unlikely event a franchise agreement containing such a provision were no longer
expected to be renewed.  The Company also expects to renew many of its
lease agreements related to the continued operation of its cable business in the
franchise areas.  For the Company s lease agreements, the estimated
liabilities related to the removal provisions, where applicable, have been
recorded and are not significant to the financial statements. 

Franchises  

Franchise
rights represent the value attributed to agreements with local authorities that
allow access to homes in cable service areas acquired through the purchase of
cable systems.  Management estimates the fair value of franchise
rights at the date of acquisition and determines if the franchise has a finite
life or an indefinite-life. All franchises that qualify for indefinite-life
treatment are tested for impairment annually or more frequently as warranted by
events or changes in circumstances (see Note 6).  The Company
concluded that substantially all of its franchises qualify for indefinite-life
treatment. 

Customer
Relationships 

Customer
relationships represent the value attributable to our business relationships
with our current customers including the right to deploy and market additional
services to these customers.  Customer relationships are amortized on an
accelerated basis over the period the relationships are expected to generate
cash flows.  

Goodwill 

We assess
the recoverability of our goodwill annually, or more frequently whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. We
perform the assessment of our goodwill one level below the operating segment
level, which is represented by geographical groupings of cable systems by which
such systems are managed. 

F-17 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

Other Noncurrent
Assets  

Other
noncurrent assets primarily include trademarks as of December 31, 2009 and
deferred financing costs as of December 31, 2008.  Costs related to
borrowings are deferred and amortized to interest expense over the terms of the
related borrowings.  All prior deferred financing costs were
eliminated as part of fresh start accounting.  Trademarks have been
determined to have an indefinite life and are tested annually for
impairment. 

Valuation of Long-Lived
Assets  

The
Company evaluates the recoverability of long-lived assets to be held and used
for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  Such events or
changes in circumstances could include such factors as impairment of the
Company s indefinite life assets, changes in technological advances,
fluctuations in the fair value of such assets, adverse changes in relationships
with local franchise authorities, adverse changes in market conditions or a
deterioration of operating results.  If a review indicates that the
carrying value of such asset is not recoverable from estimated undiscounted cash
flows, the   carrying
value of such asset is reduced to its estimated fair value.  While the
Company believes that its estimates of future cash flows are reasonable,
different assumptions regarding such cash flows could materially affect its
evaluations of asset recoverability.  No impairments of long-lived
assets to be held and used were recorded in 2009, 2008, and 2007; however,
approximately $56 million of impairment on assets held for sale related to cable
systems meeting the criteria of assets held for sale was recorded for the year
ended December 31, 2007. 

Derivative Financial
Instruments  

Gains or
losses related to derivative financial instruments which qualify as hedging
activities were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss).  For all other derivative instruments, the related gains or
losses were recorded in the statements of operations.  The Company
used interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest costs and reduce the
Company s exposure to increases in floating interest rates.  The
Company s policy is to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by
maintaining a mix of fixed and variable rate debt within a targeted
range.  Using interest rate swap agreements, the Company agreed to
exchange, at specified intervals  through 2013 , the
difference between fixed and variable interest amounts calculated by reference
to agreed-upon notional principal amounts.   At the banks  option,
certain interest rate swap agreements could have been extended through
2014.   The Company does not hold or issue any derivative
financial instruments for trading purposes.  Upon filing for Chapter
11 bankruptcy, the counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements
terminated the underlying contracts and upon emergence from bankruptcy, received
payment for the market value of the interest rate swap as measured on the date
the counterparties terminated.  The Company does not hold any
derivative financial instruments as of December 31, 2009. 

Certain
provisions of the Company s 5.875% and 6.50% convertible senior notes issued in
November 2004 and October 2007, respectively, were considered embedded
derivatives for accounting purposes and were required to be accounted for
separately from the convertible senior notes.  These derivatives were
marked to market with gains or losses recorded as the change in value of
derivatives on the Company s consolidated statements of
operations.  For the years ended December 31, 2008, and 2007, the
Company recognized $33 million and $98 million in gains, respectively, related
to these derivatives.  No gains or losses were recognized during the
eleven months ended November 30, 2009 and one month ended December 31,
2009.  At December 31, 2008, no amounts are recorded on the Company s
consolidated balance sheets related to these derivatives.  On the
Effective Date, the Company s 5.875% and 6.50% convertible senior notes were
cancelled.  See Note 2. 

Revenue
Recognition  

Revenues
from residential and commercial video, high-speed Internet and telephone
services are recognized when the related services are
provided.  Advertising sales are recognized at estimated realizable
values in the period that the advertisements are broadcast.  Franchise
fees imposed by local governmental authorities are collected on a monthly basis
from the Company s customers and are periodically remitted to local franchise
authorities.  Franchise fees of $15 million, $166 million, $187
million, and $177 million for the one month ended December 31, 2009, eleven
months ended November 30, 2009 and years ended December 31, 2008, and 2007,
respectively, are reported  

F-18 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

in other revenues, on a gross basis with a corresponding operating
expense .   Sales taxes
collected and remitted to state and local authorities are recorded on a net
basis.

The
Company s revenues by product line are as follows: 

Programming
Costs  

The
Company has various contracts to obtain basic, digital and premium video
programming from program suppliers whose compensation is typically based on a
flat fee per customer.  The cost of the right to exhibit network
programming under such arrangements is recorded in operating expenses in the
month the programming is available for exhibition.  Programming costs
are paid each month based on calculations performed by the Company and are
subject to periodic audits performed by the programmers.  Certain
programming contracts contain incentives to be paid by the
programmers.  The Company receives these payments and recognizes the
incentives on a straight-line basis over the life of the programming agreement
as a reduction of programming expense.  This offset to programming
expense was $2 million, $24 million, $33 million, and $25 million for the one
month ended December 31, 2009, eleven months ended November 30, 2009 and years
ended December 31, 2008, and 2007, respectively.  As of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, the deferred amounts of such economic
consideration, included in other long-term liabilities, were $36 million and $61
million, respectively.  Programming costs included in the accompanying
statements of operations were $146 million, $1.6 billion, $1.6 billion, and $1.6
billion for the one month ended December 31, 2009, eleven months ended November
30, 2009 and years ended December 31, 2008, and 2007,
respectively. 

Advertising
Costs  

Advertising
costs associated with marketing the Company s products and services are
generally expensed as costs are incurred.  Such advertising expense
was $20 million, $230 million, $229 million, and $187 million for the one month
ended December 31, 2009, eleven months ended November 30, 2009 and years ended
December 31, 2008, and 2007, respectively. 

Multiple-Element
Transactions 

In the
normal course of business, the Company enters into multiple-element transactions
where it is simultaneously both a customer and a vendor with the same
counterparty or in which it purchases multiple products and/or services, or
settles outstanding items contemporaneous with the purchase of a product or
service from a single counterparty.  Transactions, although negotiated
contemporaneously, may be documented in one or more contracts.  The
Company s policy for accounting for each transaction negotiated
contemporaneously is to record each element of the transaction based on the
respective estimated fair values of the products  

F-19 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

            NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

            DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

            (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

or services purchased and the products or services
sold.  In determining the fair value of the respective elements, the
Company refers to quoted market prices (where available), historical
transactions or comparable cash transactions.

Stock-Based
Compensation  

The
Company recorded $1 million, $26 million, $33 million, and $18 million of option
compensation expense which is included in general and administrative expenses
for the one month ended December 31, 2009, eleven months ended November 30, 2009
and years ended December 31, 2008, and 2007, respectively. 

The fair
value of each option granted is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model.  The following weighted average
assumptions were used for grants during the years ended December 31, 2008, and
2007, respectively; risk-free interest rates of 3.5%, and 4.6%; expected
volatility of 88.1%, and 70.3% based on historical volatility; and expected
lives of 6.3 years, and 6.3 years, respectively.  The valuations
assume no dividends are paid.   The Company did not grant stock
options in 2009. 

Income Taxes  

The
Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities for temporary differences
between the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of the Company s assets
and liabilities and expected benefits of utilizing net operating loss
carryforwards.  The impact on deferred taxes of changes in tax rates
and tax law, if any, applied to the years during which temporary differences are
expected to be settled, are reflected in the consolidated financial statements
in the period of enactment (see Note 21). 

Earnings (Loss) per Common
Share  

Basic
earnings (loss) per common share is computed by dividing the net income (loss)
available to common shareholders by the weighted-average common shares
outstanding during the respective periods.  Diluted loss per common
share equals basic loss per common share for the years ended December 31, 2008
and 2007, as the effect of stock options and other convertible securities are
antidilutive because the Company incurred net losses.  Diluted
earnings per share is based on the average number of shares used for the basic
earnings per share calculation, adjusted for the dilutive effect of stock
options and other convertible securities. See Note 22.  Predecessor
shares were cancelled on the Effective Date and shares of Successor were
issued.  As a result, earnings (loss) per share information for the
Successor is not comparable to the Predecessor loss per share. 

The 21.8
million shares outstanding as of December 31, 2008, pursuant to the share
lending agreement described in Note 13 were required to be returned, in
accordance with the contractual arrangement, and were treated in basic and
diluted earnings per share as if they were already returned and
retired.  Consequently, there was no impact of the shares of common
stock lent under the share lending agreement in the earnings per share
calculation. 

Segments  

The
Company s operations are managed on the basis of geographic operating
segments.  The Company has evaluated the criteria for aggregation of
the geographic operating segments and believes it meets each of the respective
criteria set forth.  The Company delivers similar products and
services within each of its geographic operations.  Each geographic
service area utilizes similar means for delivering the programming of the
Company s services; have similarity in the type or class of customer receiving
the products and services; distributes the Company s services over a unified
network; and operates within a consistent regulatory environment.  In
addition, each of the geographic operating segments has similar economic
characteristics.  In light of the Company s similar services, means
for delivery, similarity in type of customers, the use of a unified network and
other considerations across its geographic operating structure, management has
determined that the Company has one reportable segment, broadband
services. 

F-20 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

4.            
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 

Activity
in the allowance for doubtful accounts is summarized as follows for the years
presented: 

On the
Effective Date, the Company applied fresh start accounting and as such adjusted
its accounts receivable to reflect fair value.  Therefore, the
allowance for doubtful accounts was eliminated at November 30,
2009. 

5. 

Property,
      Plant and Equipment 

Property,
plant and equipment consists of the following as of December 31, 2009 and
2008: 

The
Company periodically evaluates the estimated useful lives used to depreciate its
assets and the estimated amount of assets that will be abandoned or have minimal
use in the future.  A significant change in assumptions about the
extent or timing of future asset retirements, or in the Company s use of new
technology and upgrade programs, could materially affect future depreciation
expense.  In 2007, the Company changed the useful lives of certain
property, plant, and equipment based on technological changes.  The
change in useful lives reduced depreciation expense by approximately $81 million
and $8 million during 2008 and 2007, respectively. On the Effective Date, the
Company applied fresh start accounting and as such adjusted its property, plant
and equipment to reflect fair value and adjusted remaining useful lives for
existing property, plant and equipment and for future purchases. 

Depreciation
expense for the one month ended December 31, 2009, eleven months ended November
30, 2009 and years ended December 31, 2008, and 2007 was $94 million, $1.2
billion, $1.3 billion, and $1.3 billion, respectively. 

F-21 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

6.            
Franchises, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 

Franchise
rights represent the value attributed to agreements or authorizations with local
and state authorities that allow access to homes in cable service
areas.  Franchises are tested for impairment annually, or more
frequently as warranted by events or changes in
circumstances.  Franchises are aggregated into essentially inseparable
units of accounting to conduct the valuations.  The units of
accounting generally represent geographical clustering of the Company s cable
systems into groups by which such systems are managed.  Management
believes such grouping represents the highest and best use of those
assets. 

As a
result of the continued economic pressure on the Company s customers from the
recent economic downturn along with increased competition, the Company
determined that its projected future growth would be lower than previously
anticipated in its annual impairment testing in December
2008.  Accordingly, the Company determined that sufficient indicators
existed to require it to perform an interim franchise impairment analysis as of
September 30, 2009.  As of the date of the filing of its Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, the Company
determined that an impairment of franchises was probable and could be reasonably
estimated. Accordingly, for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, the Company
recorded a preliminary non-cash franchise impairment charge of $2.9 billion
which represented the Company s best estimate of the impairment of its franchise
assets. The   
  Company finalized
its franchise impairment analysis during the two months ended November 30, 2009,
and recorded a reduction of the non-cash franchise impairment charge of $691
million. 

The
Company recorded non-cash franchise impairment charges of $1.5 billion and $178
million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.   The impairment charge recorded in 2008 was
primarily the result of the impact of the economic downturn along with increased
competition while the impairment charge recorded in 2007 was primarily the
result of an increase in competition. 

On the
Effective Date, the Company applied fresh start accounting and adjusted its
franchise, goodwill, and other intangible assets including trademarks and
customer relationships to reflect fair value.  The Company s
valuations, which are based on the present value of projected after tax cash
flows, resulted in a value for property, plant and equipment, franchises, and
customer relationships for each unit of accounting.   As a result
of applying fresh start accounting, the Company recorded goodwill of $951
million which represents the excess of reorganization value over amounts
assigned to the other assets.  See Note 2. 

The
Company determined the estimated fair value of each unit of accounting utilizing
an income approach model based on the present value of the estimated discrete
future cash flows attributable to each of the intangible assets identified for
each unit assuming a discount rate. This approach makes use of unobservable
factors such as projected revenues, expenses, capital expenditures, and a
discount rate applied to the estimated cash flows. The determination of the
discount rate was based on a weighted average cost of capital approach, which
uses a market participant s cost of equity and after-tax cost of debt and
reflects the risks inherent in the cash flows. 

The
Company estimated discounted future cash flows using reasonable and appropriate
assumptions including among others, penetration rates for basic and digital
video, high-speed Internet, and telephone; revenue growth rates; operating
margins; and capital expenditures.  The assumptions are derived based
on the Company s and its peers  historical operating performance adjusted for
current and expected competitive and economic factors surrounding the cable
industry.  The estimates and assumptions made in the Company s
valuations are inherently subject to significant uncertainties, many of which
are beyond its control, and there is no assurance that these results can be
achieved. The primary assumptions for which there is a reasonable possibility of
the occurrence of a variation that would significantly affect the measurement
value include the assumptions regarding revenue growth, programming expense
growth rates, the amount and timing of capital expenditures and the discount
rate utilized.  The assumptions used are consistent with current
internal forecasts, some of which differ from the assumptions used for the
annual impairment testing in December 2008 as a result of the economic and
competitive environment discussed previously.  The change in
assumptions reflects the lower than anticipated growth in revenues experienced
during 2009 and the expected reduction of future cash flows as compared to those
used in the December 2008 valuations. 

Franchises,
for valuation purposes, are defined as the future economic benefits of the right
to solicit and service potential customers (customer marketing rights), and the
right to deploy and market new services, such as  

F-22 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

interactivity
and telephone, to potential customers (service marketing
rights).  Fair value is determined based on estimated discrete
discounted future cash flows using assumptions consistent with internal
forecasts.  The franchise after-tax cash flow is calculated as the
after-tax cash flow generated by the potential customers obtained (less the
anticipated customer churn), and the new services added to those customers in
future periods.  The sum of the present value of the franchises'
after-tax cash flow in years 1 through 10 and the continuing value of the
after-tax cash flow beyond year 10 yields the fair value of the
franchises.  Franchises increased $62 million as a result of the
application of fresh start accounting.  Subsequent to finalization of
the franchise impairment charge and fresh start accounting, franchises are
recorded at fair value of $5.3 billion.  Franchises are expected to
generate cash flows indefinitely and as such will continue to be tested for
impairment annually. 

Customer
relationships, for valuation purposes, represent the value of the business
relationship with existing customers (less the anticipated customer churn), and
are calculated by projecting the discrete future after-tax cash flows from these
customers, including the right to deploy and market additional services to these
customers.  The present value of these after-tax cash flows yields the
fair value of the customer relationships.  The Company recorded $2.4
billion of customer relationships in connection with the application of fresh
start accounting on the Effective Date.  Customer relationships will
be amortized on an accelerated method over useful lives of 11-15 years based on
the period over which current customers are expected to generate cash
flows. 

The
Company recorded $158 million in trademarks in connection with the application
of fresh start accounting.  The fair value of trademarks was
determined using the relief-from-royalty method which applies a fair royalty
rate to estimated revenue.  Royalty rates were estimated based on a
review of market royalty rates in the communications and entertainment
industries.   As the Company expects to continue to use each
trademark indefinitely, trademarks have been assigned an indefinite life and
will be tested annually for impairment. 

As of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, indefinite-lived and finite-lived intangible
assets are presented in the following table: 

Franchise
amortization expense for the Predecessor represents the amortization relating to
franchises that did not qualify for indefinite-life treatment including costs
associated with franchise renewals.  Franchise amortization expense
for the eleven months ended November 30, 2009, and years ended December 31,
2008, and 2007 was $2 million, $2 million, and $3 million,
respectively.  Amortization expense related to customer
relationships and other intangible assets for the one month ended December
31, 2009, eleven months ended November 30, 2009, and years ended December 31,
2008, and 2007 was $28 million, $5 million, $5 million, and $4 million,
respectively.  During the eleven months ended November 30, 2009, the
net carrying amount of indefinite-lived franchises was reduced by $9 million
related to cable asset sales completed in 2009. 

F-23 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

The
Company expects amortization expense on its finite-lived intangible assets will
be as follows. 

Actual
amortization expense in future periods could differ from these estimates as a
result of new intangible asset acquisitions or divestitures, changes in useful
lives and other relevant factors. 

7.            
Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses 

Accounts
payable and accrued expenses consist of the following as of December 31, 2009
and 2008:  

8. 

Long-Term
      Debt 

Long-term
debt consists of the following as of December 31, 2009 and
2008: 

F-24 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

On the
Effective Date, the Company applied fresh start accounting and as such adjusted
its debt to reflect fair value.  Therefore, as of December 31, 2009,
the accreted values presented above represent the fair value of the notes as of
the Effective Date, plus the accretion to the balance sheet
date.  However, the amount that is currently payable if the debt
becomes immediately due is equal to the principal amount of notes.  As
of December 31, 2008, the accreted values presented above generally represented
the principal amount of the notes less the original issue discount at the time
of sale, plus the accretion to the balance sheet date. 

The
Charter convertible notes, Charter Holdings notes, CIH notes and CCH I notes
were eliminated on the Effective Date.  The elimination of the debt,
along with the exchange of CCH II debt described below resulted in a gain due to
effects of the Plan of approximately $6.8 billion for the eleven months ended
November 30, 2009, included in the Predecessor company s consolidated statements
of operations.  See Note 2. 

Charter
Convertible Notes 

On the
Effective Date, the Charter convertible notes were cancelled and holders of the
convertible notes received $25 million in cash and 5.5 million shares of
preferred stock issued by Charter valued at $145 million as of the Effective
Date. 

Charter
Holdings Notes 

On the
Effective Date, the Charter Holdings notes were cancelled and holders of Charter
Holdings notes received 1.3 million warrants to purchase shares of new Charter
Class A common stock with an exercise price of $51.28 per share that expire five
years after the date of issuance.  The warrants were valued at $6
million as of the Effective Date. 

F-25 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

CCH
I Holdings, LLC Notes 

On the
Effective Date, the CIH notes were cancelled and holders of CIH notes received
6.4 million warrants to purchase shares of new Charter Class A common stock with
an exercise price of $46.86 per share that expire five years after the date of
issuance.  The warrants were valued at $35 million as of the Effective
Date. 

CCH I, LLC
Notes  

On the
Effective Date, the CCH I notes were cancelled and holders of CCH I notes
received 21.1 million shares of new Charter Class A common stock.  In
addition, as part of the Plan, the holders of CCH I notes received and
transferred to Mr. Allen $85 million principal amount of new CCH II notes valued
at $101 million as of the Effective Date. 

CCH
II, LLC Notes 

On the
Effective Date, CCH II and CCH II Capital Corp. issued approximately $1.8
billion in total principal amount of new 13.5% senior notes.  Existing
holders of senior notes of CCH II and CCH II Capital Corp. ( CCH II Notes )
exchanged $1.5 billion principal amount of their CCH II Notes plus accrued
interest for $1.7 billion principal amount ($2.0 billion fair value) of new
13.5% Senior Notes of CCH II and CCH II Capital Corp. (the  New CCH II
Notes ).  CCH II Notes and accrued interest that were not exchanged
were paid in cash in an amount equal to $1.1 billion.  

The New
CCH II Notes are senior debt obligations of CCH II and CCH II Capital
Corp.   The New CCH II Notes rank equally with all other current
and future unsecured, unsubordinated obligations of CCH II and CCH II Capital
Corp.  The New CCH II notes are structurally subordinated to all
obligations of the subsidiaries of CCH II, including the CCO Holdings notes and
credit facility and the Charter Operating notes and credit
facilities. 

At any
time prior to the third anniversary of their issuance, CCH II will be permitted
to redeem up to 35% of the New CCH II Notes with the proceeds of an equity
offering, for cash equal to 113.5% of the then-outstanding principal amount of
the New CCH II Notes being redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid
interest.  At or any time prior to the third anniversary of their
issuance, CCH II will be permitted to redeem the New CCH II Notes, in whole
or in part, at 100% of the principal amount outstanding plus a  make-whole 
premium calculated based on a discount rate of the Treasury rate plus 50 basis
points, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  On or after the third
anniversary of their issuance, the New CCH II Notes will be subject to
redemption by CCH II for cash equal to 106.75% of the principal amount of the
New CCH II Notes being redeemed for redemptions made during the fourth year
following their issuance, 103.375% for redemptions made during the fifth year
following their issuance, 101.6875% for redemptions made during the sixth year
following their issuance, and 100.000% for redemptions made thereafter, in each
case, together with accrued and unpaid interest. 

In the
event of specified change of control events, CCH II must offer to purchase the
outstanding CCH II notes from the holders at a purchase price equal to 101% of
the total principal amount of the notes, plus any accrued and unpaid
interest. 

CCO
Holdings Notes 

The CCO
Holdings notes are senior debt obligations of CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings
Capital Corp. They rank equally with all other current and future unsecured,
unsubordinated obligations of CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital
Corp.  The CCO Holdings notes are structurally subordinated to all
obligations of subsidiaries of CCO Holdings, including the Charter Operating
notes and the Charter Operating credit facilities. 

The
issuers of the CCO Holdings 8  % senior notes may redeem all or a part of the
notes at a redemption price that declines ratably from the redemption price of
102.917% to a redemption price on or after November 15, 2011 of 100.0% of the
principal amount of the CCO Holdings 8  % senior notes redeemed, plus, in each
case, any accrued and unpaid interest. 

F-26 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

In the
event of specified change of control events, CCO Holdings must offer to purchase
the outstanding CCO Holdings senior notes from the holders at a purchase price
equal to 101% of the total principal amount of the notes, plus any accrued and
unpaid interest. 

Charter Operating
Notes  

The
Charter Operating notes are senior debt obligations of Charter Operating and
Charter Communications Operating Capital Corp.  To the extent of the
value of the collateral (but subject to the prior lien of the credit
facilities), they rank effectively senior to all of Charter Operating s future
unsecured senior indebtedness.  The collateral currently consists of
the capital stock of Charter Operating held by CCO Holdings, all of the
intercompany obligations owing to CCO Holdings by Charter Operating or any
subsidiary of Charter Operating, and substantially all of Charter Operating s
and the guarantors  assets (other than the assets of CCO
Holdings).  CCO Holdings and those subsidiaries of Charter Operating
that are guarantors of, or otherwise obligors with respect to, indebtedness
under the Charter Operating credit facilities and related obligations, guarantee
the Charter Operating notes. 

Charter
Operating may, at any time and from time to time, at their option, redeem the
outstanding 8% second lien notes due 2012, in whole or in part, at a redemption
price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid
interest, if any, to the redemption date, plus the Make-Whole
Premium.  The Make-Whole Premium is an amount equal to the excess of
(a) the present value of the remaining interest and principal payments due on an
8% senior second-lien note due 2012 to its final maturity date, computed using a
discount rate equal to the Treasury Rate on such date plus 0.50%, over (b) the
outstanding principal amount of such Note. 

On or
after April 30, 2009, Charter Operating may redeem all or a part of the 8 3/8%
senior second lien notes at a redemption price that declines ratably from the
initial redemption price of 104.188% to a redemption price on or after April 30,
2012 of 100% of the principal amount of the 8 3/8% senior second lien notes
redeemed plus in each case accrued and unpaid interest. 

In March
2008, Charter Operating issued $546 million principal amount of 10.875% senior
second-lien notes due 2014, guaranteed by CCO Holdings and certain other
subsidiaries of Charter Operating, in a private transaction.  Net
proceeds from the senior second-lien notes were used to reduce borrowings, but
not commitments, under the revolving portion of the Charter Operating credit
facilities. 

The
Charter Operating 10.875% senior second-lien notes may be redeemed at the option
of Charter Operating on or after varying dates, in each case at a premium, plus
the Make-Whole Premium.  The Make-Whole Premium is an amount equal to
the excess of (a) the present value of the remaining interest and principal
payments due on a 10.875% senior second-lien note due 2014 to its final maturity
date, computed using a discount rate equal to the Treasury Rate on such date
plus 0.50%, over (b) the outstanding principal amount of such
note.  The Charter Operating 10.875% senior second-lien notes may be
redeemed at any time on or after March 15, 2012 at specified
prices.  In the event of specified change of control events, Charter
Operating must offer to purchase the Charter Operating 10.875% senior
second-lien notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the total principal
amount of the Charter Operating notes repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid
interest thereon. 

High-Yield Restrictive Covenants;
Limitation on Indebtedness.  

The
indentures governing the CCH II, CCO Holdings and Charter Operating notes
contain certain covenants that restrict the ability of CCH II, CCH II Capital
Corp., CCO Holdings, CCO Holdings Capital Corp., Charter Operating, Charter
Communications Operating Capital Corp., and all of their restricted subsidiaries
to: 

incur
      additional debt; 

pay
      dividends on equity or repurchase
equity; 

make
      investments; 

sell
      all or substantially all of their assets or merge with or into other
      companies; 

sell
      assets; 

F-27 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

enter
      into sale-leasebacks; 

in
      the case of restricted subsidiaries, create or permit to exist dividend or
      payment restrictions with respect to the bond issuers, guarantee their
      parent companies debt, or issue specified equity
  interests; 

engage
      in certain transactions with affiliates;
and 

grant
      liens. 

CCO
Holdings Credit Facility 

The CCO
Holdings credit facility consists of a $350 million term loan.  The
term loan matures on September 6, 2014.  The CCO Holdings credit
facility also allows the Company to enter into incremental term loans in the
future, maturing on the dates set forth in the notices establishing such term
loans, but no earlier than the maturity date of the existing term
loans.  However, no assurance can be given that the Company could
obtain such incremental term loans if CCO Holdings sought to do
so.  Borrowings under the CCO Holdings credit facility bear interest
at a variable interest rate based on either LIBOR or a base rate plus, in either
case, an applicable margin.  The applicable margin for LIBOR term
loans, other than incremental loans, is 2.50% above LIBOR.  The
applicable margin with respect to the incremental loans is to be agreed upon by
CCO Holdings and the lenders when the incremental loans are
established.  The CCO Holdings credit facility is secured by the
equity interests of Charter Operating, and all proceeds thereof. 

Charter
Operating Credit Facilities 

On the
Effective Date, the Charter Operating credit facilities remain outstanding
although the revolving line of credit is no longer available for new borrowings
and remains substantially drawn with the same maturity and interest
terms.  The Charter Operating credit facilities have outstanding
principal amount of $8.2 billion at December 31, 2009 as follows: 

a
      term loan with a remaining principal amount of $6.4 billion, which is
      repayable in equal quarterly installments aggregating in each loan year to
      1% of the original amount of the term loan, with the remaining balance due
      at final maturity on March 6, 2014; 

an
      incremental term loan with a remaining principal amount of $491 million
      which is payable on March 6, 2014 and prior to that date will amortize in
      quarterly principal installments totaling 1% annually;
  and 

The
Charter Operating credit facilities also allow the Company to enter into
incremental term loans in the future with an aggregate amount of up to an
additional $500 million, with amortization as set forth in the notices
establishing such term loans, but with no amortization greater than 1% prior to
the final maturity of the existing term loan.  Although the Charter
Operating credit facilities allow for the incurrence of up to an additional $500
million in incremental term loans, no assurance can be given that additional
incremental term loans could be obtained in the future if Charter Operating
sought to do so.   

Amounts
outstanding under the Charter Operating credit facilities bear interest, at
Charter Operating s election, at a base rate or LIBOR (0.26% as of December 31,
2009 and 1.46% to 3.50% as of December 31, 2008), as defined, plus a margin for
LIBOR loans of 2.00% for the revolving credit facility and for the term
loan.  The current incremental term loan bears interest at LIBOR plus
5.0%, with a LIBOR floor of 3.5% or at Charter Operating s election, a base rate
(3.25% at December 31, 2009) plus a margin of 4.00%.  Charter
Operating has currently elected the base rate for the incremental term
loan. 

The
obligations of Charter Operating under the Charter Operating credit facilities
(the  Obligations ) are guaranteed by Charter Operating s immediate parent
company, CCO Holdings, and the subsidiaries of Charter Operating, except for
certain subsidiaries, including immaterial subsidiaries and subsidiaries
precluded from guaranteeing by reason of provisions of other indebtedness to
which they are subject (the  non-guarantor subsidiaries ).  The Obligations
are also secured by (i) a lien on substantially all of the assets of Charter
Operating and its subsidiaries (other than assets of the non-guarantor
subsidiaries), and (ii) a pledge by CCO Holdings of the equity interests

F-28 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

owned by
it in Charter Operating or any of Charter Operating s subsidiaries, as well as
intercompany obligations owing to it by any of such entities.  

Credit Facilities
  Restrictive Covenants  

Charter
Operating Credit Facilities 

The
Charter Operating credit facilities contain representations and warranties, and
affirmative and negative covenants customary for financings of this
type.  The financial covenants measure performance against standards
set for leverage to be tested as of the end of each
quarter.  Additionally, the Charter Operating credit facilities
contain provisions requiring mandatory loan prepayments under specific
circumstances, including in connection with certain sales of assets, so long as
the proceeds have not been reinvested in the business.  The Charter
Operating credit facilities permit Charter Operating and its subsidiaries to
make distributions to pay interest on the subordinated and parent company
indebtedness, provided that, among other things, no default has occurred and is
continuing under the Charter Operating credit facilities. 

The
events of default under the Charter Operating credit facilities include, among
other things: 

the
      failure to make payments when due or within the applicable grace
      period, 

the
      failure to comply with specified covenants, including but not limited to a
      covenant to deliver audited financial statements for Charter Operating
      with an unqualified opinion from the Company s independent accountants and
      without a  going concern  or like qualification or
    exception. 

the
      failure to pay or the occurrence of events that cause or permit the
      acceleration of other indebtedness owing by CCO Holdings, Charter
      Operating, or Charter Operating s subsidiaries in amounts in excess of
      $100 million in aggregate principal
amount, 

the
      failure to pay or the occurrence of events that result in the acceleration
      of other indebtedness owing by certain of CCO Holdings  direct and
      indirect parent companies in amounts in excess of $200 million in
      aggregate principal amount, 

Mr.
      Allen and/or certain of his family members and/or their exclusively owned
      entities (collectively, the  Paul Allen Group ) ceasing to have the power,
      directly or indirectly, to vote at least 35% of the ordinary voting power
      for the management of Charter Operating on a fully diluted
      basis, 

the
      consummation of any transaction resulting in any person or group (other
      than the Paul Allen Group) having power, directly or indirectly, to vote
      more than 35% of the ordinary voting power for the management of Charter
      Operating on a fully diluted basis, unless the Paul Allen Group holds a
      greater share of ordinary voting power for the management of Charter
      Operating, and 

Charter
      Operating ceasing to be a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of CCO Holdings,
      except in certain very limited
circumstances. 

CCO
Holdings Credit Facility 

The CCO
Holdings credit facility contains covenants that are substantially similar to
the restrictive covenants for the CCO Holdings notes.  The CCO
Holdings credit facility contains provisions requiring mandatory loan
prepayments under specific circumstances, including in connection with certain
sales of assets, so long as the proceeds have not been reinvested in the
business.  The CCO Holdings credit facility permits CCO Holdings and
its subsidiaries to make distributions to pay interest on the CCH II notes, the
CCO Holdings notes, and the Charter Operating second-lien notes, provided that,
among other things, no default has occurred and is continuing under the CCO
Holdings credit facility. 

Limitations
on Distributions 

Distributions
by the Company s subsidiaries to a parent company for payment of principal on
parent company notes are restricted under the indentures and credit facilities
discussed above, unless there is no default under the applicable indenture and
credit facilities, and unless each applicable subsidiary s leverage ratio test
is met at the time of such distribution.  As of December 31, 2009,
there was no default under any of these indentures or credit  

F-29 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

facilities.  However,
certain of our subsidiaries did not meet their applicable leverage ratio tests
based on December 31, 2009 financial results.  As a result,
distributions from certain of our subsidiaries to their parent companies would
have been restricted at such time and will continue to be restricted unless
those tests are met.  Distributions by Charter Operating for payment
of principal on parent company notes are further restricted by the covenants in
its credit facilities 

Distributions
by CCO Holdings, and Charter Operating to a parent company for payment of parent
company interest are permitted if there is no default under the aforementioned
indentures and CCO Holdings and Charter Operating credit
facilities. 

In
addition to the limitation on distributions under the various indentures
discussed above, distributions by the Company s subsidiaries may be limited by
applicable law.  Under the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act,
under which our subsidiaries may only make distributions if they have  surplus 
as defined in the act. 

Liquidity
and Future Principal Payments 

Although
the Company reduced its debt by approximately $8 billion pursuant to the Plan,
the Company continues to have significant amounts of debt, and its business
requires significant cash to fund principal and interest payments on its debt,
capital expenditures and ongoing operations.  Prior to the bankruptcy
and the related forgiveness of a portion of its debt, the Company has funded its
cash requirements through cash flows from operating activities, borrowings under
its credit facilities, proceeds from sales of assets, issuances of debt and
equity securities, and cash on hand.    Upon filing
bankruptcy and continuing under the Plan as consummated, Charter Operating no
longer has access to the revolving feature of its revolving credit facility and
will rely on cash on hand and cash flows from operating activities to fund its
projected operating cash needs.  As set forth below, the Company has
significant future principal payments beginning in 2012 and
beyond.  The Company continues to monitor the capital markets, and it
expects to undertake refinancing transactions and utilize cash flows from
operating activities and cash on hand to further extend or reduce the maturities
of its principal obligations. 

Based
upon outstanding indebtedness as of December 31, 2009, the amortization of term
loans, and the maturity dates for all senior and subordinated notes, total
future principal payments on the total borrowings under all debt agreements as
of December 31, 2009, are as follows: 

9. 

Note
      Payable   Related Party 

In
October 2005, CCHC, LLC ( CCHC ) issued a subordinated exchangeable note (the
 CCHC Note ) to CII.  The CCHC Note had a 15-year
maturity.  The CCHC Note had an initial accreted value of $48 million
accreting at 14% compounded quarterly.  The CCHC Note was exchangeable
at CII s option, at any time, for Charter Holdco Class A Common units at a rate
equal to the then accreted value, divided by $2.00.  The accreted
value of the CCHC Note as of December 31, 2008 was $75 million.  In
connection with the consummation of the Allen Agreement under the Plan, the CCHC
note was cancelled.  See Note 2. 

F-30 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

On the
Effective Date, Charter issued approximately 5.5 million shares of 15%
Pay-In-Kind Preferred Stock having an aggregate liquidation preference of $138
million to holders of Charter convertible notes (the  Preferred
Stock ).  Pursuant to the terms of the Preferred Stock, the Company is
required to pay a dividend at an annual rate equal to 15% on the liquidation
preference of the Preferred Stock.  The dividend increases to an
annual rate equal to 17% on the liquidation preference in year four and 19% in
year five.  The liquidation preference of the Preferred Stock is $25 per
share. The preferred stock is not convertible or exchangeable at the option of a
holder into any other class or series of stock or obligations of Charter.
Charter can redeem the shares, payable in either Class A common stock or cash or
a combination thereof, except for the first six months after the Effective Date
the shares may only be redeemed for cash.  After five years, Charter
shall redeem the preferred stock at 100% of the accreted value, payable in cash
or Class A common stock or a combination thereof.  The Preferred Stock
is included in other long-term liabilities on the Company s consolidated balance
sheets at fair value of $148 million as of December 31, 2009.  The
Preferred Stock is marked to market with gains or losses recorded in other
income (expense). 

Temporary
equity on the consolidated balance sheets represents nonvested shares of
restricted stock and performance shares issued to employees of $1 million and
$38 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and as of December
31, 2008, Mr. Allen s 5.6% preferred membership interest in CC VIII, an indirect
subsidiary of Charter Holdco of $203 million.  Mr. Allen s CC VIII
interest was classified as temporary equity as a result of Mr. Allen s ability
to put his interest to the Company upon a change in control.  On the
Effective Date, Mr. Allen s 5.6% preferred membership interest was transferred
to Charter.  See Note 2. 

Noncontrolling
interest in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations
includes losses of approximately $7 million for the eleven months ended November
30, 2009, and income of approximately $4 million and $7 million for the years
ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which represents the 2%
accretion of the preferred membership interests plus approximately 5.6% of CC
VIII s income (loss). 

12.           Noncontrolling
Interest 

Charter
is a holding company whose primary assets are a controlling equity interest in
Charter Holdco, the indirect owner of the Company s cable systems, and as of
December 31, 2008, $482 million of mirror notes payable by Charter Holdco to
Charter, which had the same principal amount and terms as those of Charter s
5.875% and 6.50% convertible senior notes.  Noncontrolling interest on
the Company s condensed consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2009
represents the fair value of Mr. Allen s .19% interest of Charter Holdco plus
the allocation of income for the month ended December 31, 2009. 

On
January 1, 2009, Charter adopted new accounting guidance regarding
consolidations and noncontrolling interests ,  which requires losses to be
allocated to noncontrolling interest even when such amounts are deficits. As
such, losses are allocated between Charter and the noncontrolling
interest.  Net income and basic and diluted earnings per common share
would have been $10.1 billion and $26.68 and $11.20, respectively, for the
eleven months ended November 30, 2009 if such new accounting guidance had not
been adopted. 

F-31 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

Changes
to controlling and noncontrolling interest consist of the following for the
periods presented: 

13.           Common
Stock 

All of
the issued and outstanding shares of Predecessor common stock, par value $.001
per share, and any other outstanding equity securities of Predecessor, including
all options and restricted stock, were cancelled on the Effective Date, and
Successor issued 109.7 million shares of new Charter Class A common stock,
par value $.001 per share and 2.2 million shares of new Charter Class B common
stock, par value $.001 per share. 

Charter s
Class A common stock and Class B common stock are identical except with respect
to certain voting, transfer and conversion rights.  Holders of Class A
common stock are entitled to one vote per share and the holder of Class B common
stock is entitled to votes equaling 35% of the voting interests in Charter on a
fully diluted basis.  The Class B common stock is subject to
significant transfer restrictions and is convertible on a share for share basis
into Class A common stock at the option of the holder subject to the Lock-up
Agreement defined below.  Charter Holdco membership units are
exchangeable on a one-for-one basis for shares of Class A common
stock. 

On the
Effective Date, holders of notes issued by CIH and Charter Holdings received 6.4
million and 1.3 million warrants, respectively, to purchase shares of new
Charter Class A common stock with an exercise price of $46.86 and $51.28 per
share, respectively, that expire five years from the date of issuance, and CII
received 4.7 million warrants to purchase shares of new Charter Class A common
stock with an exercise price of $19.80 per share that expire seven years from
the date of issuance.  The warrants were valued at approximately $90
million using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and are included in the
accompanying balance sheets in total Charter shareholders  equity
(deficit). 

F-32 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

The
following table summarizes our share activity for the three years ended December
31, 2009: 

On the
Effective Date, the Company, CII and Mr. Allen entered into a lock up agreement
(the  Lock-Up Agreement ) pursuant to which Mr. Allen and any permitted
affiliate of Mr. Allen that holds shares of Charter Class B common stock shall
not transfer or sell shares of Charter Class B common stock except to Mr. Allen
and/or such permitted affiliates or convert shares of Charter Class B common
stock into Charter Class A common stock from the Effective Date to the earliest
to occur of (i) September 15, 2014, (ii) the repayment, replacement, refinancing
or substantial modification, including any waiver, to the change of control
provisions of the Charter Operating credit facility and (iii) a change of
control (as defined in the Lock-Up Agreement). 

In 2006
and 2005, Charter issued 116.9 million shares of Class A common stock in public
offerings.  These offerings of Class A common stock were conducted to
facilitate transactions by which investors in Charter s 5.875% convertible
senior notes due 2009 hedged their investments in the convertible senior
notes.  The shares were issued pursuant to the share lending
agreement, pursuant to which Charter had previously agreed to loan up to 150
million shares to Citigroup Global Markets Limited ( CGML ).  As of
November 30, 2009, 113.9 million shares had been returned under the share
lending agreement.  The remaining shares were cancelled on the
Effective Date. 

F-33 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

14.          
Comprehensive Income (Loss) 

The
Company reports changes in the fair value of interest rate agreements designated
as hedging the variability of cash flows associated with floating-rate debt
obligations, that meet effectiveness criteria in accumulated other comprehensive
loss.  Comprehensive loss for the years ended December 31, 2008,
and 2007 was $2.6 billion and $1.7 billion,
respectively.  Comprehensive income for the one month ended December
31, 2009 and eleven months ended November 30, 2009 was $2 million and $11.4
billion, respectively. 

15.           Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities 

The
Company used interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest costs and
reduce the Company s exposure to increases in floating interest
rates.  The Company s policy is to manage its exposure to fluctuations
in interest rates by maintaining a mix of fixed and variable rate debt within a
targeted range.  Using interest rate swap agreements, the Company
agreed to exchange, at specified intervals through 2013, the difference between
fixed and variable interest amounts calculated by reference to agreed-upon
notional principal amounts.  At the banks  option, certain interest
rate swap agreements could have been extended through
2014.   

Upon
filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the counterparties to the interest rate swap
agreements terminated the underlying contracts and, upon emergence from
bankruptcy, received payment of $495 million for the market value of the
interest rate swap agreements as measured on the date the counterparties
terminated plus accrued interest.  The Company does not hold any
derivative financial instruments as of December 31,
2009.   

The
Company s hedging policy does not permit it to hold or issue derivative
instruments for speculative trading purposes.  The Company did,
however, have certain interest rate derivative instruments that were designated
as cash flow hedging instruments.  Such instruments effectively
converted variable interest payments on certain debt instruments into fixed
payments.  For qualifying hedges, derivative gains and losses offset
related results on hedged items in the consolidated statements of
operations.  The Company formally documented, designated and assessed
the effectiveness of transactions that received hedge
accounting.   

Changes
in the fair value of interest rate agreements that were designated as hedging
instruments of the variability of cash flows associated with floating-rate debt
obligations, and that met effectiveness criteria were reported in accumulated
other comprehensive loss.  The amounts were subsequently reclassified
as an increase or decrease to interest expense in the same periods in which the
related interest on the floating-rate debt obligations affected earnings
(losses).  

Certain
interest rate derivative instruments were not designated as hedges as they did
not meet effectiveness criteria.  However, management believes such
instruments were closely correlated with the respective debt, thus managing
associated risk.  Interest rate derivative instruments not designated
as hedges were marked to fair value, with the impact recorded as a change in
value of derivatives in the Company s consolidated statements of operations.

As of
December 31, 2008, the Company had outstanding $4.3 billion in notional amounts
of interest rate swap agreements outstanding.  The notional amounts of
interest rate instruments do not represent amounts exchanged by the parties and,
thus, are not a measure of exposure to credit loss.  The amounts
exchanged were determined by reference to the notional amount and the other
terms of the contracts. 

F-34 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

The
effect of derivative instruments on the Company s consolidated statements of
operations is presented in the table below. 

16.          
Fair Value Measurements 

Financial
Assets and Liabilities 

The
Company has estimated the fair value of its financial instruments as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008 using available market information or other
appropriate valuation methodologies.  Considerable judgment, however,
is required in interpreting market data to develop the estimates of fair
value.  Accordingly, the estimates presented in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements are not necessarily indicative of the amounts
the Company would realize in a current market exchange. 

The
carrying amounts of cash, receivables, payables and other current assets and
liabilities approximate fair value because of the short maturity of those
instruments. 

The
estimated fair value of the Company s debt at December 31, 2009 and 2008
are based on quoted market prices. 

F-35 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

A summary
of the carrying value and fair value of the Company s debt at December 31,
2009 and 2008 is as follows: 

The
Company adopted new accounting guidance for fair value measurements and
disclosures on its financial assets and liabilities effective January 1, 2008,
and has an established process for determining fair value.  Fair value
is based upon quoted market prices, where available.  If such
valuation methods are not available, fair value is based on internally or
externally developed models using market-based or independently-sourced market
parameters, where available.  Fair value may be subsequently adjusted
to ensure that those assets and liabilities are recorded at fair
value.  The Company s methodology may produce a fair value that may
not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values,
but the Company believes its methods are appropriate and consistent with other
market peers.  The use of different methodologies or assumptions to
determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a
different fair value estimate as of the Company s reporting date. 

The
accounting guidance   establishes a three-level
hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements, based upon the transparency
of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date,
as follows: 

Level
      1   inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for
      identical assets or liabilities in active
  markets. 

Level
      2   inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar
      assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable
      for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for
      substantially the full term of the financial
  instrument. 

Level
      3   inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant
      to the fair value measurement. 

Interest
rate derivatives were valued at December 31, 2008 using a present value
calculation based on an implied forward LIBOR curve (adjusted for Charter
Operating s credit risk) and were classified within level 2 of the valuation
hierarchy.  The preferred stock was valued at December 31, 2009 using an
income approach based on yields of similar securities of comparable companies
and based on yields of the Company s debt securities and is classified within
level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.     

F-36 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company s financial liabilities that were
accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis are presented in the table
below: 

The
Company s long-term debt was adjusted to fair value on the Effective
Date.  Debt instruments with a fair value of $9.8 billion were
classified as level 1 within the fair value hierarchy and debt instruments with
a fair value of $3.5 billion were classified as level 2 in the fair value
hierarchy. 

Nonfinancial
Assets and Liabilities 

The
Company adopted new accounting guidance effective January 1, 2009 with respect
to its nonfinancial assets and liabilities including fair value measurements of
franchises, property, plant, and equipment, and other intangible
assets.  These assets are not measured at fair value on a recurring
basis; however they are subject to fair value adjustments in certain
circumstances, such as when there is evidence that an impairment may
exist.  During 2009, the Company recorded an impairment on its franchise
assets of $2.2 billion and reflected its franchises, property, plant and
equipment, customer relationships and goodwill at fair value based on applying
fresh start accounting.  The fair value of these assets were determined
utilizing an income approach or cost approach that makes use of significant
unobservable inputs. Such fair values are classified as level 3 in the fair
value hierarchy.  See Note 6 for additional information.  

17.          
Other Operating (Income) Expenses, Net 

Other
operating (income) expenses, net consist of the following for the years
presented: 

(Gain)
loss on sale of assets, net 

(Gain)
loss on sale of assets represents the (gain) loss recognized on the sale of
fixed assets and cable systems. 

Special
charges, net 

Special
charges, net for one month ended December 31, 2009 primarily includes severance
charges.  Special charges, net for the eleven months ended November
30, 2009 primarily includes gains related to favorable litigation  

F-37 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

settlements.  Special
charges, net for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes severance charges and
settlement costs associated with certain litigation, offset by favorable
insurance settlements.  Special charges, net for the year ended
December 31, 2007, primarily represents favorable litigation settlements offset
by severance associated with the closing of call centers and divisional
restructuring. 

18. 

Reorganization
      Items, Net 

Reorganization
items, net is presented separately in the condensed consolidated statements of
operations and represents items of income, expense, gain or loss that are
realized or incurred by the Company because it was in reorganization under
Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 

Reorganization
items, net consisted of the following items: 

Reorganization
items, net consist of adjustments to record liabilities at the allowed claim
amounts, including the write off of deferred financing fees, and other expenses
directly related to the Company s bankruptcy proceedings.  Penalty
interest primarily represents the 2% per annum penalty interest paid on the CCH
II, CCO Holdings and Charter Operating debt and credit facilities while in
bankruptcy, and the incremental amounts owed on the CCO Holdings and Charter
Operating credit facilities as a result of the requirement to pay the prime rate
plus the 1% per annum applicable margin instead of the election to pay LIBOR.
While in bankruptcy, Charter Operating and CCO Holdings were not able to elect
LIBOR on credit facilities but paid interest at the prime rate plus the 1% per
annum applicable margin plus 2% per annum penalty
interest.  Post-emergence professional fees relate to claim
settlements, plan implementation and other transition costs related to the
Plan. 

F-38 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

19. 

Other
      Income (Expense), Net 

Other
income (expense), net consists of the following for years
presented: 

In
October 2008, Charter Holdco completed a tender offer, in which a total of
approximately $102 million principal amount of various Charter Holdings notes
due 2009 and 2010 were exchanged for approximately $99 million of
cash.  Charter Holdco held the Charter Holdings notes.  The
transactions resulted in a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $2
million for the year ended December 31, 2008. 

In the
second quarter of 2008, Charter Holdco repurchased, in private transactions from
a small number of institutional holders, a total of approximately $35 million
principal amount of various Charter Holdings notes due 2009 and 2010 for
approximately $35 million of cash.  Charter Holdco held the Charter
Holdings notes.  The transactions resulted in a gain on extinguishment
of debt of approximately $1 million for the year ended December 31,
2008. 

In the
second quarter of 2008, Charter Holdco repurchased, in private transactions,
from a small number of institutional holders, a total of approximately $46
million principal amount of Charter s 5.875% convertible senior notes due 2009,
for approximately $42 million of cash.  The purchased 5.875%
convertible senior notes were cancelled resulting in approximately $3 million
principal amount of such notes remaining outstanding.  The
transactions resulted in a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $5
million for the year ended December 31, 2008. 

In July
2008, CCH II completed a tender offer, in which $338 million of CCH II s 10.25%
senior notes due 2010 were accepted for $364 million of CCH II s 10.25% senior
notes due 2013, which were issued as part of the same series of notes as CCH
II s $250 million aggregate principal amount of 10.25% senior notes due 2013,
which were issued in September 2006.  The transactions resulted in a
loss on extinguishment of debt of approximately $4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2008. 

In
October 2007, Charter Holdco completed a tender offer in which $364 million of
Charter s 5.875% convertible senior notes due 2009 were accepted for $479
million of Charter s 6.50% convertible senior notes due 2027.  The
tender offer resulted in a loss on extinguishment of debt of approximately $21
million for the year ended December 31, 2007. 

In April
2007, Charter Holdings completed a tender offer in which $97 million of Charter
Holdings  notes were accepted in exchange for $100 million of total
consideration, including premiums and accrued interest.  In addition,
Charter Holdings redeemed $187 million of its 8.625% senior notes due April 1,
2009 and CCO Holdings redeemed $550 million of its senior floating rate notes
due December 15, 2010.  These redemptions closed in April
2007.  The  

F-39 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

redemptions
and tender resulted in a loss on extinguishment of debt for the CCH transactions
and the CCOH transaction of approximately $3 million and $19 million,
respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2007. 

In March
2007, Charter Operating refinanced its facilities resulting in a loss on
extinguishment of debt for the year ended December 31, 2007 of approximately $13
million. 

20.          
Stock Compensation Plans 

In
accordance with the Plan, the Company's board of directors adopted the Charter
Communications, Inc. 2009 Stock Incentive Plan (the  2009 Stock
Plan ).  The 2009 Stock Plan provides for grants of nonqualified stock
options, incentive stock options, stock appreciation rights, dividend equivalent
rights, performance units and performance shares, share awards, phantom stock,
restricted stock units and restricted stock.  Directors, officers and
other employees of the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as others
performing consulting services for the Company, are eligible for grants under
the 2009 Stock Plan.   

Prior to
the Company s emergence from bankruptcy, the Company had stock compensation
plans (the  Equity Plans ) which provided for the grant of non-qualified stock
options, stock appreciation rights, dividend equivalent rights, performance
units and performance shares, share awards, phantom stock and/or shares of
restricted stock, as each term is defined in the Equity
Plans.  Employees, officers, consultants and directors of the Company
and its subsidiaries and affiliates were eligible to receive grants under the
Equity Plans. 

Under the
Equity Plans, options granted generally vested over four years from the grant
date, with 25% generally vesting on the first anniversary of the grant date and
ratably thereafter.  Generally, options expired 10 years from the
grant date.  Restricted stock vested annually over a one to three-year
period beginning from the date of grant. The performance units became
performance shares on or about the first anniversary of the grant date,
conditional upon Charter's performance against financial performance measures
established by Charter s management and approved by its board of directors as of
the time of the award.  The performance shares became shares of Class
A common stock on the third anniversary of the grant date of the performance
units.  In 2009, the majority of restricted stock and performance
units and shares were voluntarily forfeited by participants without termination
of the service period, and the remaining, along with all stock options, were
cancelled on the Effective Date. 

The Plan
included an allocation of not less than 3% of new equity for employee grants
with 50% of the allocation to be granted within thirty days of the Company's
emergence from bankruptcy.  In December 2009, the Company's board of
directors authorized 8 million shares under the 2009 Stock Plan and awarded to
certain employees 2 million shares of restricted stock, one-third of which are
to vest on each of the first three anniversaries of the Effective
Date.  Such grant of new awards is deemed to be a modification of old
awards and will be accounted for as a modification of the original awards. As a
result, unamortized compensation cost of $12 million was added to the cost of
the new award and will be amortized over the vesting period.  As of
December 31, 2009, total unrecognized compensation remaining to be recognized in
future periods totaled $72 million. 

F-40 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

A summary
of the activity for the Company s stock options for the eleven months ended
November 30, 2009 and years ended December 31, 2008, and 2007, is as
follows (amounts in thousands, except per share data).  No stock
options were granted in 2009.  On the Effective Date, all remaining
stock options were cancelled. 

A summary
of the activity for the Company s restricted Class A common stock for the one
month ended December 31, 2009, eleven months ended November 30, 2009 and years
ended December 31, 2008, and 2007, is as follows (amounts in thousands,
except per share data): 

F-41 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

A summary
of the activity for the Company s performance units and shares for the eleven
months ended November 30, 2009 and years ended December 31, 2008, and 2007,
is as follows (amounts in thousands, except per share data).  No
performance units or shares were granted in 2009.  On the Effective
Date, all remaining performance units and shares were cancelled. 

21.          
Income Taxes 

All
operations are held through Charter Holdco and its direct and indirect
subsidiaries.  Charter Holdco and the majority of its subsidiaries are
generally limited liability companies that are not subject to income
tax.  However, certain of these limited liability companies are
subject to state income tax.  In addition, the subsidiaries that are
corporations are subject to federal and state income tax.  All of the
remaining taxable income, gains, losses, deductions and credits of Charter
Holdco are passed through to its members. 

The LLC
agreement that governed Charter Holdco prior to its emergence from bankruptcy
contained special loss and income allocation provisions.  Pursuant to
the operation of these provisions and applicable U.S. federal income tax law,
the cumulative amount of losses of Charter Holdco allocated to Vulcan Cable III,
Inc., an entity owned by Mr. Allen and subsequently merged into CII, and CII was
in excess of the amount that would have been allocated to such entities if the
losses of Charter Holdco had been allocated among its members in proportion to
their respective percentage ownership of Charter Holdco common membership
units. 

Effective
with Charter s emergence from bankruptcy on November 30, 2009, Charter Holdco s
LLC Agreement was amended such that section 704(b) book income and loss were
allocated among the members of Charter Holdco such that the members  capital
accounts are adjusted as nearly as possible to reflect the amount that each
member would have received if Charter Holdco were liquidated at section 704(b)
book values.  The allocation of taxable income and loss should follow
the section 704(b) book allocations and generally reflect the member s
respective percentage ownership of Charter Holdco common membership interests,
except to the extent of certain required allocations pursuant to section 704(c)
of the Internal Revenue Code. 

In
connection with the Plan, Charter, CII, Mr. Allen and Charter Holdco entered
into an exchange agreement (the  Exchange Agreement ), pursuant to which CII has
the right to require Charter to (i) exchange all or a portion of CII s
membership interest in Charter Holdco or 100% of CII for $1,000 in cash and
shares of Charter s Class A common stock in a taxable transaction, or (ii) merge
CII with and into Charter, or a wholly-owned subsidiary of Charter, in a
tax-free transaction (or undertake a tax-free transaction similar to the taxable
transaction in subclause (i)), subject to CII meeting certain
conditions.  In addition, Charter has the right, under certain
circumstances involving a change of control of Charter to require CII to effect
an exchange transaction of the type elected by CII from subclauses (i) or (ii)
above, which election is subject to certain limitations. 

F-42 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

On
December 28, 2009, CII exercised its right, under the Exchange Agreement with
Charter, to exchange 81% of its common membership interest in Charter Holdco for
$1,000 in cash and 907,698 shares of Charter s Class A common stock in a fully
taxable transaction.  Charter s deferred tax liability increased by
$100 million as a result of the transaction.  Charter also received a
step-up in tax basis in Charter Holdco s assets, under section 743 of the Code,
relative to the interest in Charter Holdco it acquired from
CII.  Based upon the taxable exchange which occurred on December 28,
2009, CII fulfilled the conditions necessary to allow it to elect a tax-free
transaction at any time during the remaining term of the Exchange
Agreement.  On February 8, 2010, the remaining interest was exchanged
after which Charter Holdco became 100% owned by Charter.  As a result,
in the first quarter of 2010, Charter s deferred tax liabilities will be
increased relative to the taxable gain inherent in CII s previous .19%
Charter Holdco interest. 

For the
one month ended December 31, 2009, eleven months ended November 30, 2009 and
years ended December 31, 2008, and 2007, the Company recorded deferred
income tax expense and benefits as shown below.  The income tax
expense is recognized through increases in deferred tax liabilities related to
our investment in Charter Holdco, as well as through current federal and state
income tax expense and increases in the deferred tax liabilities of certain of
our indirect corporate subsidiaries.  The income tax benefits were
realized through reductions in the deferred tax liabilities related to Charter s
investment in Charter Holdco, as well as the deferred tax liabilities of certain
of Charter s indirect corporate subsidiaries.  The tax provision in
future periods will vary based on current and future temporary differences, as
well as future operating results. 

Current
and deferred income tax benefit (expense) is as follows: 

Income
tax benefit for the eleven months ended November 30, 2009 and year ended
December 31, 2008 included $480 million and $325 million, respectively, of
deferred tax benefit related to the impairment of franchises. 

F-43 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

The
Company s effective tax rate differs from that derived by applying the
applicable federal income tax rate of 35% for the one month ended December 31,
2009, eleven months ended November 30, 2009 and years ended December 31, 2008,
and 2007, respectively, as follows: 

The tax
effects of these temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of
the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2009 and
2008 which are included in long-term liabilities are presented
below. 

In
assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether
it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets
will be realized.  Due to the Company s history of losses and the
limitations imposed under Section 382 of the Code, discussed below, on Charter s
ability to use existing net  

F-44 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

operating
losses in the future, valuation allowances have been established except for
deferred benefits available to offset certain deferred tax liabilities that will
reverse over time. 

As of
December 31, 2009, Charter had approximately $6.3 billion of federal tax net
operating losses, resulting in a gross deferred tax asset of approximately $2.2
billion, expiring in the years 2014 through 2028.  These losses resulted
from the operations of Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries. In addition, as of
December 31, 2009, Charter had state tax net operating losses, resulting in a
gross deferred tax asset (net of federal tax benefit) of approximately $209
million, generally expiring in years 2010 through 2028.   

Charter s
net operating loss caryforwards have been reduced by approximately $3.0 billion
of cancellation of debt income resulting from the Plan that was allocable to
Charter.  Further, the consummation of the Plan generated an
 ownership change  as defined in Section 382 of the Code.  As a
result, Charter is subject to an estimated annual limitation of approximately
$170 million, available for each of the next 19 years, plus an additional
estimated $2.7 billion which should become available to Charter in varying
amounts over the period 2010 through 2014, on the amount of net operating losses
and capital loss carryforwards it may use in the future.  Those
limitation amounts accumulate for future use to the extent they are not utilized
in a given year.  Charter s state net operating loss carryforwards are
also subject to similar, but varying, restrictions on their future
use.  Charter s indirect corporate subsidiaries are also subject to
separate Section 382 limitations on the utilization of their net operating loss
carryforwards.  If the Company was to experience another  ownership
change  in the future, its ability to use its net operating losses could be
subject to further limitations.     

In
determining the Company s tax provision for financial reporting purposes, the
Company establishes a reserve for uncertain tax positions unless such positions
are determined to be  more likely than not  of being sustained upon examination,
based on their technical merits. There is considerable judgment involved in
determining whether positions taken on the tax return are  more likely than not 
of being sustained.  The Company did not have any unrecognized tax benefits
for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.  A reconciliation of the
beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits for the year ended
December 31, 2009 is as follows. 

Included
in the balance at December 31, 2009, are $23 million of tax positions for which
the ultimate deductibility is highly certain, but for which there is uncertainty
about the character of the deductibility.  Because of the impact of
deferred tax accounting, the ordinary loss would not affect the annual effective
tax rate. 

The
Company does not currently anticipate that its existing reserves related to
uncertain income tax positions as of December 31, 2009 will significantly
increase or decrease during the twelve-month period ending   
 December 31, 2010; however, various
events could cause the Company s current expectations to change in the future.
These uncertain tax positions, if ever recognized in the financial statements,
would be recorded in the consolidated statement of operations as part of the
income tax provision. 

No tax
years for Charter or Charter Holdco are currently under examination by the
Internal Revenue Service.  Tax years ending 2006 through 2009 remain
subject to examination and assessment.  Years prior to 2006 remain
open solely for purposes of examination of Charter s net operating loss and
credit carryforwards. 

F-45 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

            NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

            DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

            (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

22.           Earnings
(Loss) Per Share 

Basic
earnings (loss) per share is based on the average number of shares of common
stock outstanding during the period.  Diluted earnings per share is
based on the average number of shares used for the basic earnings per share
calculation, adjusted for the dilutive effect of stock options, restricted
stock, performance shares and units, convertible debt, convertible redeemable
preferred stock and exchangeable membership units.  Basic loss per
share equals diluted loss per share for the years ended December 31, 2008 and
2007. 

The
shares of Class B common stock held by Mr. Allen have a 35% voting interest in
Charter, on a fully diluted basis, and are exchangeable at any time on a
one-for-one basis for shares of Charter Class A common stock subject to the
terms of the Lock-Up Agreement.  See Note 13.  The CII
warrants represent shares resulting from the exercise of warrants held by
CII.  See Note 2. 

The 1.3
million Charter Holdings warrants and 6.4 million CIH warrants were not included
in the computation of diluted earnings per share because their exercise prices
were greater than the average market price of the common
shares.  Restricted stock was also not included in the computation of
diluted earnings per share because the effect would have been
antidilutive. 

Prior to
the Effective Date, CII Class B Charter Holdco units and Vulcan Class B Charter
Holdco units represented membership units in Charter Holdco, held by entities
controlled by Mr. Allen, that were exchangeable at any time on a one-for-one
basis for shares of Charter Class B common stock, which were in turn convertible
on a one-for-one basis into shares of Charter Class A common
stock.  The 5.875% convertible senior notes due 2009 and 6.50%
convertible senior notes due 2027 represent the shares resulting from the
assumed conversion of the notes into shares of Charter s Class A common
stock.  The CCHC note represented the shares resulting from the
assumed conversion of the note into Charter Holdco units that were exchangeable
on a one-for-one basis for shares of Charter Class B common stock, which were in
turn convertible on a one-for-one basis into shares of Charter Class A common
stock. 

F-46 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

All
options to purchase common stock, which were outstanding during the eleven
months ended November 30, 2009, were not included in the computation of diluted
earnings per share because the options  exercise price was greater than the
average market price of the common shares.  All restricted stock and
performance units were also not included in the computation of diluted earnings
per share because the effect would have been antidilutive. 

Shares
issued pursuant to the share lending agreement were required to be returned, in
accordance with the contractual arrangement, and were treated in basic and
diluted earnings per share as if they were already returned and
retired.  Consequently, there was no impact of the shares of common
stock lent under the share lending agreement in the earnings per share
calculation. 

23.          
Related Party Transactions 

The
following sets forth certain transactions in which the Company and the
directors, executive officers, and affiliates of the Company are
involved.  Unless otherwise disclosed, management believes each of the
transactions described below was on terms no less favorable to the Company than
could have been obtained from independent third parties. 

In
connection with the Plan, Charter, Mr. Allen and an entity controlled by Mr.
Allen entered into the Allen Agreement, pursuant to which, among other things,
Mr. Allen and such entity agreed to support the Plan, including the settlement
of their rights, claims and remedies against Charter and its
subsidiaries.  See Note 2. 

Charter
is a holding company and its principal assets are its equity interest in Charter
Holdco and prior to the Effective Date, certain mirror notes payable by Charter
Holdco to Charter and mirror preferred units held by Charter, which had the same
principal amount and terms as those of Charter s convertible senior notes and
Charter s outstanding preferred stock.  During the eleven months ended
November 30, 2009, and years ended December 31, 2008, and 2007, Charter Holdco
paid to Charter $0, $32 million, and $51 million, respectively, related to
interest on the mirror notes. 

Charter
is a party to management arrangements with Charter Holdco and certain of its
subsidiaries.  Under these agreements, Charter and Charter Holdco
provide management services for the cable systems owned or operated by their
subsidiaries.  The management services include such services as
centralized customer billing services, data processing and related support,
benefits administration and coordination of insurance coverage and
self-insurance programs for medical, dental and workers  compensation
claims.  Costs associated with providing these services are charged
directly to the Company s operating subsidiaries and are included within
operating costs in the accompanying consolidated statements of
operations.  Such costs totaled $21 million, $220 million, $213
million, and $213 million for the one month ended December 31, 2009, eleven
months ended November 30, 2009 and years ended December 31, 2008, and 2007,
respectively.  All other costs incurred on behalf of Charter s
operating subsidiaries are considered a part of the management fee and are
recorded as a component of selling, general and administrative expense, in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements.  The management fee
charged to the Company s operating subsidiaries approximated the expenses
incurred by Charter Holdco and Charter on behalf of the Company s operating
subsidiaries in 2009, 2008 and 2007. 

Mr. Allen
or his affiliates own or have owned equity interests or warrants to purchase
equity interests in various entities with which the Company does business or
which provides it with products, services or programming.  Among these
entities are Digeo, Inc. ( Digeo ), and Microsoft
Corporation.  Mr. Allen owns 100% of the equity of Vulcan
Ventures Incorporated ( Vulcan Ventures ) and Vulcan Inc. and is the president
of Vulcan Ventures.  Ms. Jo Lynn Allen was a director of the Company
until the Effective Date and is the President and Chief Executive Officer of
Vulcan Inc. and is a director and Vice President of Vulcan
Ventures.  Mr. Lance Conn is a director of the Company and was
Executive Vice President of Vulcan Inc. and Vulcan Ventures until May
2009.  The various cable, media, Internet and telephone companies in
which Mr. Allen has invested may mutually benefit one
another.  The Company can give no assurance, nor should you expect,
that any of these business relationships will be successful, that the Company
will realize any benefits from these relationships or that the Company will
enter into any business relationships in the future with Mr. Allen s
affiliated companies. 

In 2009,
Charter reimbursed Vulcan Inc. approximately $3 million in legal
expenses. 

F-47 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

9
OM, Inc. (formerly known as Digeo, Inc.) 

Mr.
Allen, through his 100% ownership of Vulcan Ventures Incorporated ( Vulcan
Ventures ), owns a majority interest in 9 OM, Inc. (formerly known as Digeo,
Inc.) on a fully-converted fully-diluted basis.  However, in October
2009, substantially all of 9 OM, Inc.'s assets were sold to ARRIS Group, Inc.,
an unrelated third party. Ms. Jo Lynn Allen was a director of Charter until the
Effective Date and is a director and Vice President of Vulcan
Ventures.  Mr. Lance Conn is a director of Charter and was Executive
Vice President of Vulcan Ventures until his resignation in May 2009. Charter
Operating owns a small minority percentage of 9 OM, Inc.'s stock but does not
expect to receive any proceeds from the sale of assets to the ARRIS Group,
Inc. 

In May
2008, Charter Operating entered into an agreement with 9 OM, LLC (formerly known
as Digeo Interactive, LLC), a subsidiary of 9 OM, Inc., for the minimum purchase
of high-definition DVR units for approximately $21 million.  This
minimum purchase commitment is subject to reduction as a result of certain
specified events such as the failure to deliver units timely and catastrophic
failure.  
 The software for these units is being supplied under a software license
agreement with 9 OM, LLC; the cost of which is expected to be approximately $2
million for the initial licenses and on-going maintenance fees of approximately
$0.3 million annually, subject to reduction to coincide with any reduction in
the minimum purchase commitment.  The Company purchased approximately
$19 million and $1 million of DVR units from 9 OM, LLC under these agreements in
2009 and 2008, respectively. 

On June
30, 2003, Charter Holdco entered into an agreement with Motorola, Inc. for the
purchase of 100,000 digital video recorder ( DVR ) units.  The
software for these DVR units was being supplied by Digeo Interactive, LLC under
a license agreement entered into in April 2004.  Pursuant to a
software license agreement with Digeo Interactive for the right to use Digeo's
proprietary software for DVR units, Charter paid approximately $2 million, $1
million, $2 million in license and maintenance fees in 2009, 2008, and 2007,
respectively. 

Charter
paid approximately $1 million and $10 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, in
capital purchases under an agreement with Digeo Interactive for the development,
testing and purchase of 70,000 Digeo PowerKey DVR units.  Total
purchase price and license and maintenance fees during the term of the
definitive agreements were expected to be approximately $41
million.  The definitive agreements were terminable at no penalty to
Charter in certain circumstances. 

24.          
Commitments and Contingencies 

Commitments 

The
following table summarizes the Company s payment obligations as of December 31,
2009 for its contractual obligations. 

(2)  The
      Company pays programming fees under multi-year contracts ranging from
      three to ten years, typically based on a flat fee per customer, which may
      be fixed for the term, or may in some cases escalate over the
      term.   

F-48 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

Programming
      costs included in the accompanying statement of operations were $146
      million, $1.6 billion, $1.6 billion, and $1.6 billion, for the one month
      ended December 31, 2009, eleven months ended November 30, 2009 and years
      ended December 31, 2008, and 2007, respectively.  Certain
      of the Company s programming agreements are based on a flat fee per month
      or have guaranteed minimum payments.  The table sets forth the
      aggregate guaranteed minimum commitments under the Company s programming
      contracts. 

(3)   Other 
      represents other guaranteed minimum commitments, which consist primarily
      of commitments to the Company s billing services
  vendors. 

The
following items are not included in the contractual obligation table due to
various factors discussed below.  However, the Company incurs these
costs as part of its operations: 

The
      Company rents utility poles used in its operations.  Generally,
      pole rentals are cancelable on short notice, but the Company anticipates
      that such rentals will recur.  Rent expense incurred for pole
      rental attachments for the one month ended December 31, 2009, eleven
      months ended November 30, 2009 and years ended December 31, 2008, and
      2007, was $4 million, $43 million, $47 million, and $47 million,
      respectively. 

The
      Company pays franchise fees under multi-year franchise agreements based on
      a percentage of revenues generated from video service per
      year.  The Company also pays other franchise related costs, such
      as public education grants, under multi-year
      agreements.  Franchise fees and other franchise-related costs
      included in the accompanying statement of operations were $15 million,
      $161 million, $179 million, and $172 million for the one month ended
      December 31, 2009, eleven months ended November 30, 2009 and years ended
      December 31, 2008, and 2007,
respectively. 

The
      Company also has $124 million in letters of credit, primarily to its
      various worker s compensation, property and casualty, and general
      liability carriers, as collateral for reimbursement of
    claims. 

Litigation 

On August
28, 2008, a lawsuit was filed against Charter and Charter Communications, LLC
( Charter LLC ) in the United States District Court for the Western District of
Wisconsin (now entitled,  Marc
Goodell et al.  v. Charter Communications, LLC and Charter
Communications, Inc. ).  The plaintiffs seek to represent a class of
current and former broadband, system and other types of technicians who are or
were employed by Charter or Charter LLC in the states of Michigan, Minnesota,
Missouri or California.  Plaintiffs allege that Charter and Charter
LLC violated certain wage and hour statutes of those four states by failing to
pay technicians for all hours worked.   Charter and Charter LLC
continue to deny all liability, believe that they have substantial defenses, and
are vigorously contesting the claims asserted.  The Company has been
subjected, in the normal course of business, to the assertion of other wage and
hour claims and could be subjected to additional such claims in the
future.  The Company cannot predict the outcome of any such
claims. 

On March
27, 2009, Charter filed its chapter 11 Petition in the United States Bankruptcy
Court for the Southern District of New York.  On the same day,
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., ( JPMorgan ), for itself and as Administrative Agent
under the Charter Operating Credit Agreement, filed an adversary proceeding (the
 JPMorgan Adversary Proceeding ) in Bankruptcy Court against Charter Operating
and CCO Holdings seeking a declaration that there have been events of default
under the Charter Operating Credit Agreement.  JPMorgan, as well as
other parties, objected to the Plan.  The Bankruptcy Court jointly
held 19 days of trial in the JPMorgan Adversary Proceeding and on the objections
to the Plan. 

On
November 17, 2009, the Bankruptcy Court issued its Order and Opinion confirming
the Plan over the objections of JPMorgan and various other
objectors.  The Court also entered an order ruling in favor of Charter
in the JPMorgan Adversary Proceeding.  Several objectors attempted to
stay the consummation of the Plan, but those motions were denied by the
Bankruptcy Court and the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York.   

F-49 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

Charter
consummated the Plan on November 30, 2009 and reinstated the Charter Operating
Credit Agreement and certain other debt of its subsidiaries. 

Five
appeals have been filed relating to confirmation of the Plan.  The
parties pursuing appeals are: JPMorgan; Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. ( Wells Fargo )
(in its capacities as successor Administrative Agent and successor Collateral
Agent for the third lien prepetition secured lenders to CCO Holdings under the
CCO Holdings credit facility); Law Debenture Trust Company of New York ( Law
Debenture Trust ) (as the Trustee with respect to the $479 million in aggregate
principal amount of 6.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2027 issued by Charter
Communications, Inc. which are no longer outstanding following consummation of
the Plan); R2 Investments, LDC ( R2 Investments ) (an equity interest holder in
Charter Communications, Inc.); and three plaintiffs representing a putative
class in a securities action against three Charter officers or directors
presently pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of Arkansas (Iron Workers Local No. 25 Pension Fund, Indiana Laborers Pension
Fund, and Iron Workers District Council of Western New York and Vicinity Pension
Fund, in the action styled  Iron Workers Local No. 25 Pension
Fund v. Allen, et al. , Case No. 4:09-cv-00405-JLH (E.D.
Ark.).  Briefing in four of the appeals (JPMorgan, Wells Fargo, Law
Debenture Trust, and R2 Investments) is schedule to commence on March 24,
2010.  No schedule has been set in the other appeal.  We
cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the appeals. 

The
Company and its parent companies are party to lawsuits and claims that arise in
the ordinary course of conducting its business.  The ultimate outcome
of these other legal matters pending against the Company or its parent companies
cannot be predicted, and although such lawsuits and claims are not expected
individually to have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated
financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, such lawsuits could
have, in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated
financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 

Regulation in the Cable
Industry  

The
operation of a cable system is extensively regulated by the Federal
Communications Commission ( FCC ), some state governments and most local
governments.  The FCC has the authority to enforce its regulations
through the imposition of substantial fines, the issuance of cease and desist
orders and/or the imposition of other administrative sanctions, such as the
revocation of FCC licenses needed to operate certain transmission facilities
used in connection with cable operations.  The 1996 Telecom Act
altered the regulatory structure governing the nation s communications
providers.  It removed barriers to competition in both the cable
television market and the telephone market.  Among other things, it
reduced the scope of cable rate regulation and encouraged additional competition
in the video programming industry by allowing telephone companies to provide
video programming in their own telephone service areas. 

Future
legislative and regulatory changes could adversely affect the Company s
operations, including, without limitation, additional regulatory requirements
the Company may be required to comply with as it offers new services such as
telephone. 

25.          
Employee Benefit Plan 

The
Company s employees may participate in the Charter Communications, Inc. 401(k)
Plan.  Employees that qualify for participation can contribute up to
50% of their salary, on a pre-tax basis, subject to a maximum contribution limit
as determined by the Internal Revenue Service.  For each payroll
period, the Company contributed to the 401(k) Plan (a) the total amount of the
salary reduction the employee elects to defer between 1% and 50% and (b) a
matching contribution equal to 50% of the amount of the salary reduction the
participant elects to defer (up to 5% of the participant s payroll
compensation), excluding any catch-up contributions.  The Company made
contributions to the 401(k) plan totaling $1 million, $7 million, $8 million,
and $7 million for the one month ended December 31, 2009, eleven months ended
November 30, 2009 and years ended December 31, 2008, and 2007,
respectively. 

Effective
January 1, 2010, the Company s matching contribution will be discretionary with
the intent that any contribution be based on performance metrics used in its
other bonus and incentive plans.  The discretionary  

F-50 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

performance
contribution will be made on an annual basis (instead of on a per pay period
basis).  Each participant who makes before-tax contributions and is
employed on the last day of the fiscal year will receive a portion of the
discretionary performance contribution, if any, on a pro rata basis. The Company
will divide each participant s before-tax contributions for the year (up to 5%
of eligible earnings, excluding catch-up contributions) by the total employee
contributions (up to 5% of eligible earnings, excluding catch-up contributions)
for the year to determine each participant s share of any discretionary
performance contribution.  

26.          
Recently Issued Accounting Standards 

In May
2008, the FASB issued guidance included in ASC 470-20,  Debt -   Debt with Conversion and Other
Options  ( ASC 470-20 ),   which specifies that
issuers of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon
conversion should separately account for the liability and equity components in
a manner reflecting their nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest costs
are recognized in subsequent periods.  This guidance included in ASC
470-20 is effective for interim periods and fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2008.  The Company adopted this guidance included in ASC
470-20 effective January 1, 2009.  The carrying amount of the equity
component at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was approximately $50
million.  The remaining equity component was eliminated in fresh start
accounting on the Effective Date. 

In
December 2007, the FASB issued guidance included in ASC 810-10,  Consolidation   Overall
 ( ASC 810-10 ), which provides guidance on the accounting and reporting
for minority interests in consolidated financial statements.  ASC 810-10
requires losses to be allocated to noncontrolling (minority) interests even when
such amounts are deficits.   This guidance included in ASC 810-10
is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008.  We
adopted this guidance included in ASC 810-10 effective January 1, 2009 and
applied the effects retrospectively to all periods presented to the extent
prescribed by the standard.  The adoption resulted in the presentation of
Mr. Allen s previous 5.6% preferred membership interest in CC VIII as temporary
equity in our consolidated balance sheets which was previously classified as
minority interest.  On the Effective Date, Mr. Allen s 5.6% preferred
membership interest was transferred to Charter. 

In
June 2009, the FASB issued guidance included in ASC 105-10,  Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles   Overall  ( ASC 105-10 ).  ASC 105-10 is intended to
be the source of GAAP and reporting standards as issued by the FASB. Its
primary purpose is to improve clarity and use of existing standards by grouping
authoritative literature under common topics. ASC 105-10 is effective for
financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after
September 15, 2009.  The Company adopted ASC 105-10 effective
September 30, 2009.  The Codification does not change or alter
existing GAAP and there was no impact on the Company s financial
statements. 

In August
2009, the FASB issued guidance included in ASC 820-10-65 which states companies
determining the fair value of a liability may use the perspective of an investor
that holds the related obligation as an asset.  This guidance included
in ASC 820-10-65 addresses practice difficulties caused by the tension between
fair-value measurements based on the price that would be paid to transfer a
liability to a new obligor and contractual or legal requirements that prevent
such transfers from taking place.  This guidance included in ASC
820-10-65 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after August 27,
2009, and applies to all fair-value measurements of liabilities required by
GAAP. No new fair-value measurements are required by this guidance. We adopted
this guidance included in ASC 820-10-65 effective October 1,
2009.  The adoption of this guidance included in ASC 820-10-65 did not
have a material impact on our financial statements. 

F-51 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

27.          
Parent Company Only Financial Statements 

As the
result of limitations on, and prohibitions of, distributions, substantially all
of the net assets of the consolidated subsidiaries are restricted from
distribution to Charter, the parent company.  The following condensed
parent-only financial statements of Charter account for the investment in
Charter Holdco under the equity method of accounting.  The financial
statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements of the Company and notes thereto. 

Charter
Communications, Inc. (Parent Company Only) 

      Condensed
Balance Sheet 

F-52 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

Condensed
Statement of Operations 

F-53 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

Condensed
Statements of Cash Flows 

F-54 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

28.          
Unaudited Quarterly Financial Data 

The
following table presents quarterly data for the periods presented on the
consolidated statement of operations: 

29.          
Consolidating Schedules 

Condensed
consolidating financial statements as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 and for the
one month ended December 31, 2009, eleven months ended November 30, 2009 and
years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 follow. 

F-55 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

F-56 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

F-57 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

F-58 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

F-59 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

F-60 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

F-61 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

F-62 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

F-63 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

F-64 

CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

          NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

          DECEMBER
31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 

          (dollars
in millions, except share or per share data or where
indicated) 

F-65 

<EX-12.1>
 2
 exhibit12_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 12.1

exhibit12_1.htm 

Exhibit
12.1 

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 3
 exhibit21_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.1

exhibit21_1.htm 

Exhibit 21.1 

Entity Jurisdiction and Type 

Entity
Name   
                   
                Jurisdiction and Type  

American
      Cable Entertainment Company, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Athens
      Cablevision, Inc. 

a
      Delaware corporation 

Ausable
      Cable TV, Inc. 

a
      New York corporation 

Cable
      Equities Colorado, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Cable
      Equities of Colorado Management Corp. 

a
      Colorado corporation 

CC
      10, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CC
      Fiberlink, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CC
      Michigan, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CC
      Systems, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CC
      V Holdings, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CC
      VI Fiberlink, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CC
      VI Operating, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CC
      VII Fiberlink, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CC
      VIII Fiberlink, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CC
      VIII Holdings, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CC
      VIII Leasing of Wisconsin, LLC 

a
      Wisconsin limited liability company 

CC
      VIII Operating, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CC
      VIII, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CCH
      I, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CCH
      I Holdings, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CCH
      II, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CCH
      II Capital Corp. 

a
      Delaware corporation 

CCHC,
      LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CCI
      Exchange I, Inc. 

a
      Delaware corporation 

Charter
      Investment, Inc. 

a
      Delaware corporation 

CCO
      Fiberlink, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CCO
      Holdings, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CCO
      Holdings Capital Corp. 

a
      Delaware corporation 

CCO
      NR Holdings, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

CCO
      Purchasing, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Advertising of Saint Louis, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Cable Leasing of Wisconsin, LLC 

a
      Wisconsin limited liability company 

Charter
      Cable Operating Company, L.L.C. 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Cable Partners, L.L.C. 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Communications Entertainment I, DST 

a
      Delaware statutory business trust 

Charter
      Communications Entertainment I, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Communications Entertainment II, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Communications Entertainment, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Communications Holding Company, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Communications Holdings LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Communications Operating, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Communications Operating Capital Corp. 

a  Delaware
      corporation 

Charter
      Communications Properties LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Communications V, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Communications Ventures, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Communications VI, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Communications VII, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Communications, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Distribution, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink   Alabama, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink AR-CCVII, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink AZ-CCVII, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink CA-CCO, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability
company 

Page
1 

Entity Name        
                   
                Jurisdiction and Type  

Charter
      Fiberlink CA-CCVII, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink CC VIII, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink CCO, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink CT-CCO, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink   Georgia, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink ID-CCVII, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink   Illinois, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink IN-CCO, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink KS-CCO, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink LA-CCO, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink MA-CCO, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink   Michigan, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink   Missouri, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink MS-CCVI, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink NC-CCO, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink NC-CCVII, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink   Nebraska, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink NH-CCO, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink NM-CCO, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink NV-CCVII, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink NY-CCO, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink NY-CCVII, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink OH-CCO, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink OK-CCVII, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink OR-CCVII, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink SC-CCO, LLC 

A
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink SC-CCVII, LLC 

A
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink   Tennessee, LLC 

A
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink TX-CCO, LLC 

A
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink UT-CCVII, LLC 

A
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink VA-CCO, LLC 

A
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink VT-CCO, LLC 

A
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink WA-CCVII, LLC 

A
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink   Wisconsin, LLC 

A
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Fiberlink WV-CCO, LLC 

A
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Gateway, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Helicon, LLC 

A
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      RMG, LLC 

A
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Stores FCN, LLC 

A
      Delaware limited liability company 

Charter
      Video Electronics, Inc. 

A
      Minnesota corporation 

Dalton
      Cablevision, Inc. 

A
      Delaware corporation 

Enstar
      Communications Corporation 

A
      Georgia corporation 

Falcon
      Cable Communications, LLC 

A
      Delaware limited liability company 

Falcon
      Cable Media, a California Limited Partnership 

A
      California limited partnership 

Falcon
      Cable Systems Company II, L.P. 

a
      California limited partnership 

Falcon
      Cablevision, a California Limited Partnership 

a
      California limited partnership 

Falcon
      Community Cable, L.P. 

a
      Delaware limited partnership 

Falcon
      Community Ventures I, LP 

a
      California limited partnership 

Falcon
      First Cable of New York, Inc. 

a
      Delaware corporation 

Falcon
      First Cable of the Southeast, Inc. 

a
      Delaware corporation 

Falcon
      First, Inc. 

a
      Delaware corporation 

Falcon
      Telecable, a California Limited Partnership 

a
      California limited partnership 

Falcon
      Video Communications, L.P. 

a
      Delaware limited partnership 

Page
2 

Entity Name  
                   
                Jurisdiction and Type  

Helicon
      Group, L.P., The 

a
      Delaware limited partnership 

Helicon
      Partners I, L.P. 

a
      Delaware limited partnership 

Hometown
      TV, Inc. 

a
      New York corporation 

HPI
      Acquisition Co., L.L.C. 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Interlink
      Communications Partners, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Long
      Beach, LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Marcus
      Cable Associates, L.L.C. 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Marcus
      Cable of Alabama, L.L.C. 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Marcus
      Cable, Inc. 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Midwest
      Cable Communications, Inc. 

a
      Minnesota corporation 

Peachtree
      Cable TV, L.P. 

a
      Georgia limited partnership 

Peachtree
      Cable T.V., LLC 

a
      Delaware limited liability company 

Plattsburgh
      Cablevision, Inc. 

a
      Delaware corporation 

Renaissance
      Media LLC 

A Delaware limited liability company 

Rifkin
      Acquisition Partners, LLC 

A Delaware limited liability company 

Robin
      Media Group, Inc. 

A Nevada corporation 

Scottsboro
      TV Cable, Inc. 

an Alabama corporation 

Tennessee,
      LLC 

A Delaware limited liability company 

Tioga
      Cable Company, Inc. 

A Pennsylvania corporation 

Vista
      Broadband Communications, LLC 

A Delaware limited liability company 

Adcast
      North Carolina Cable Advertising, LLC 

Joint Venture   Class B Member 

Charlotte
      Cable Advertising Interconnect, LLC 

Joint Venture   Class B Member 

Pacific
      Microwave 

Joint Venture 

SFC
      Transmission 

Joint Venture 

TWC
      W. Ohio   Charter Cable Advertising, LLC 

Joint Venture   Class B Member 

TWC/Charter
      Los Angeles Cable Advertising, LLC 

Joint Venture   Class A Member 

TWC/Charter
      Green Bay Cable Advertising, LLC 

Joint Venture   Class B Member 

TWC/Charter
      Dallas Cable Advertising, LLC 

Joint Venture   Class B
Member 

Page
3 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 exhibit23_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

exhibit23_1.htm 

Exhibit
23.1 

Consent of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm  

The Board
of Directors 

        Charter
Communications, Inc.: 

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statement No.
333-163357 on Form S-8 of Charter Communications, Inc. and subsidiaries (the
Company) of our report dated February 26, 2010, with respect to the consolidated
balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2009 (Successor Company) and
2008 (Predecessor Company), and the related consolidated statements of
operations, changes in shareholders  equity (deficit), and cash flows for the
one month ended December 31, 2009 (Successor Company), the eleven months ended
November 30, 2009 (Predecessor Company), and for each of the years in the
two-year period ended December 31, 2008 (Predecessor Company), and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2009, which report appears in the December 31, 2009 annual report on Form 10-K
of the Company. 

Our
report dated February 26, 2010 includes an explanatory paragraph that refers to
the Company s adoption of fresh-start accounting in conformity with AICPA
Statement of Position 90-7,  Financial Reporting by Entities in
Reorganization Under the Bankruptcy Code  (included in FASB ASC Topic
852 , Reorganizations), 
effective as of November 30, 2009.  Accordingly, the Company s
consolidated financial statements prior to November 30, 2009 are not comparable
to its consolidated financial statements for periods after November 30, 2009.

Our
report dated February 26, 2010 also includes an explanatory paragraph that
refers to the Company s adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 160,  Noncontrolling
Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements   An Amendment of ARB No. 51
 (included in FASB ASC Topic 810,  Consolidations ), effective
January 1, 2009.  

/s/
KPMG 

St.
Louis, Missouri 

        February
26, 2010 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 exhibit31_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

exhibit31_1.htm 

Exhibit
31.1 

I, Neil
Smit, certify that: 

1. 

I
      have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Charter
      Communications, Inc.; 

2. 

Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report; 

3. 

Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4. 

The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))  and internal control
      over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
      15d-15(f))  for the registrant and
have: 

(a) 

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

(b) 

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

(c) 

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
      fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
      annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

5. 

The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
      our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
      to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
      functions): 

(a) 

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

(b) 

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
      over financial reporting. 

Date:
February 26, 2010 

/s/ Neil
Smit  

      Neil
Smit 

      President
and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 exhibit31_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

exhibit31_2.htm 

Exhibit
31.2 

I, Eloise
E. Schmitz, certify that: 

1. 

I
      have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Charter
      Communications, Inc.; 

2. 

Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report; 

3. 

Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4. 

The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))  and internal control
      over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
      15d-15(f))  for the registrant and
have: 

(a) 

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

(b) 

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

(c) 

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
      fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
      annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

5. 

The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
      our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
      to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
      functions): 

(a) 

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

(b) 

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
      over financial reporting. 

Date:
February 26, 2010 

/s/ Eloise E.
Schmitz  

      Eloise E.
Schmitz 

      Chief
Financial Officer 

      (Principal
Financial Officer) 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 exhibit32_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

exhibit32_1.htm 

Exhibit
32.1 

CERTIFICATION
OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE 

      OFFICER
REGARDING PERIODIC REPORT CONTAINING 

      FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS 

I, Neil
Smit, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Charter Communications, Inc.
(the "Company") in compliance with 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, hereby certify that, the
Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 (the
"Report") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission: 

fully
      complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange
      Act of 1934; and 

the
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
      respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
      Company. 

/s/ Neil
Smit  

      Neil
Smit 

      President
and 

      Chief
Executive Officer 

      February
26, 2010 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 exhibit32_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

exhibit32_2.htm 

Exhibit
32.2 

CERTIFICATION
OF CHIEF FINANCIAL 

      OFFICER
REGARDING PERIODIC REPORT CONTAINING 

      FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS 

I, Eloise
E. Schmitz, the Chief Financial Officer of Charter Communications, Inc. (the
"Company") in compliance with 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, hereby certify that, the
Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 (the
"Report") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission: 

fully
      complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange
      Act of 1934; and 

the
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
      respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
      Company. 

/s/ Eloise E.
Schmitz  

      Eloise E.
Schmitz 

      Chief
Financial Officer 

      (Principal
Financial Officer) 

      February
26, 2010 

</EX-32.2>

