<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100226_10-K_edgar_data_4962_0001193125-10-041232_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>9988218</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>761906</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>383369</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2892528</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>2653025</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2654634</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>176</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-10-041232.hdr.sgml : 20100226
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100225204803
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-10-041232
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		17
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100226
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AMERICAN EXPRESS CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000004962
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FINANCE SERVICES [6199]
		IRS NUMBER:				134922250
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07657
		FILM NUMBER:		10635833

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		200 VESEY STREET
		STREET 2:		50TH FLOOR
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10285
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2126402000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		200 VESEY STREET
		STREET 2:		50TH FLOOR
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10285

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 HJ6BSKd5Il98hHzIRObxH1CMxOvUfoYqdsXRbtw3L9ddGEz7Rw0mMtkM3msYW0nU
 RdA9CbJ8FPZidUqo59ggow==

 0001193125-10-041232.txt : 20100226

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

                UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549                  FORM 10-K                  
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009        OR
       
     For the transition period from                        to
                              Commission File No. 1-7657                  American Express
Company        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)        

New York   
     
   13-4922250    
 
   (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)   
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)          

World Financial Center       200 Vesey Street       New York, New York    
     
   10285    
 
   (Address of principal executive offices)   
     
   (Zip Code)         Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (212) 640-2000        Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12(b) of the Act:              

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange       on which registered     
 
     Common Shares (par value $0.20 per Share)    
     
   New York Stock Exchange         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None                 Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant
to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes         No             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   
       Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.       

Large accelerated filer        
     
  Accelerated filer        
 
    Non-accelerated filer      (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company            Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).    Yes         No             As of June 30, 2009, the aggregate market value of the registrant s voting shares held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $27.6 billion based on the closing sale price as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange.      As of February 22, 2010, there were 1,196,727,420 common shares of the
registrant outstanding.       Documents Incorporated By Reference       Parts I, II and IV: Portions of Registrant s 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders.      Part III: Portions of Registrant s Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 26, 2010.               

Table of Contents  

      TABLE OF CONTENTS        Form 10-K        Item Number    

Page    
 
     PART I     

1.  
      
     Business    
      
  1   

Introduction    
      
  1   

Global Network   Merchant Services    
      
  4   

U.S. Card Services    
      
  16   

International Card Services    
      
  26   

Global Commercial Services    
      
  27   

Corporate   Other    
      
  31   

Foreign Operations    
      
  45   

Sale of American Express Bank Ltd./Discontinued Operations    
      
  46   

Segment Information and Classes of Similar Services    
      
  46   

Executive Officers of the Company    
      
  46   

Employees    
      
  48   

Guide 3   Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies     
      
  49   
 
  1A.  
      
     Risk Factors    
      
  67   
 
  1B.  
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  81   
 
  2.  
      
     Properties    
      
  81   
 
  3.  
      
     Legal Proceedings    
      
  82   
 
  4.  
      
     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
      
  88   

PART II   
      
  89   
 
  5.  
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

89   
 
  6.  
      
     Selected Financial Data    
      
  90   
 
  7.  
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    
      
  90   
 
  7A.  
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk    
      
  90   
 
  8.  
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  90   
 
  9.  
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure    
      
  90   
 
  9A.  
      
     Controls and Procedures    
      
  90   
 
  9B.  
      
     Other Information    
      
  91   

PART III    

10.  
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  92   
 
  11.  
      
     Executive Compensation    
      
  92   
 
  12.  
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters    
      
  92   
 
  13.  
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  92   
 
  14.  
      
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services    
      
  92   

PART IV   

15.  
      
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  93   

Signatures    
      
  94   

Index to Financial Statements    
      
  F-1   

Exhibit Index    
      
  E-1          

Table of Contents  

      PART I*        

ITEM 1.   
   BUSINESS           
 INTRODUCTION        Overview       American Express Company, together with its consolidated subsidiaries ( American Express,  the  Company,   we,   us  or  our ), is a global service
company that provides customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. Our principal products and services are charge and credit payment card products and travel-related services offered to
consumers and businesses around the world. We were founded in 1850 as a joint stock association. We were incorporated in 1965 as a New York corporation. American Express Company and its principal operating subsidiary, American Express Travel Related
Services Company, Inc. ( TRS ), are bank holding companies under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the  BHC Act ), subject to the supervision and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the
 Federal Reserve ).      Our headquarters are located in New York, New York in lower Manhattan. We also have offices in
other locations in North America, as well as throughout the world.      We are principally engaged in businesses comprising four
reportable operating segments: U.S. Card Services, International Card Services, Global Commercial Services, and Global Network   Merchant Services, all of which we describe below.       Securities Exchange Act Reports and Additional Information       We maintain an Investor Relations Web site on the Internet at http://ir.americanexpress.com. We make available free of charge, on or through this Web site, our annual, quarterly and current reports and
any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). To access these, just click on the  SEC
Filings  link under the caption  Financial Information/Filings  on our Investor Relations homepage.      You can
also access our Investor Relations Web site through our main Web site at www.americanexpress.com by clicking on the  About American Express  link, which is located at the bottom of our homepage. Information contained on our Investor
Relations Web site and our main Web site is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.       2009 Highlights       Compared with 2008, we delivered:       

income from continuing operations of $2.1 billion, down 26% from $2.9 billion          

*  
  Some of the statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. You can identify forward-looking statements by words such as  believe, 
 expect,   anticipate,   optimistic,   intend,   plan,   aim,   will,   may,   should,   could,   would,   likely, 
 estimate,   predict,   potential,   continue  or other similar expressions. We discuss certain factors that affect our business and operations and that may cause our actual results to differ materially from
these forward-looking statements under  Item 1A. Risk Factors  below. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to
update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements.           
   1   

Table of Contents  

2009 was a challenging year characterized by a weak economy, frozen credit markets in the first half of the year and high credit losses
industrywide. In the first two quarters, the Company s spending and cardmember loan balances declined by double digits as compared to the corresponding periods in 2008 and credit metrics (e.g. past due and write-off rates) peaked at
historically high levels. In the third quarter, the Company s credit actions began to positively impact past due and write-off rates and spending declines began to become less severe. The fourth quarter showed greater improvement.   
  In the fourth quarter of 2009 the year-over-year growth rate in cardmember spending volumes was positive for the first time since the
third quarter of 2008, benefiting from both easier comparisons to year-ago billings as well as higher levels of spending. Improvements in billed business trends were experienced in all business lines in the fourth quarter. In addition, for the first
time during the year, the growth rate in both the number of card transactions and average transaction size were positive in the fourth quarter as compared to the corresponding period in 2008. Despite these favorable trends, the Company expects the
global economy to continue to recover gradually and the resulting environment to be characterized by billings growth that is more modest than it experienced before the recession, as consumers and businesses remain cautious about their spending.
     For a complete discussion of our 2009 financial results, including financial information regarding each of our reportable
operating segments, see pages 18-128 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which are incorporated herein by reference. For a summary of the Company and our reportable operating segments, and a discussion of our principal sources of revenue, see
pages 18-21 and pages 73-74, respectively, of the 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders.       Products and Services       The Company s range of products and services include:       

charge and credit card products          

expense management products and services          

consumer and business travel services          

stored value products such as Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products          

network services for the Company s network partners          

merchant acquisition and processing, point-of-sale, servicing and settlement and marketing and information products and services for merchants

fee services, including market and trend analyses along with related consulting services and customer loyalty and rewards programs.
        The Company s products and services are sold globally to diverse customer groups, including consumers,
small businesses, middle-market companies, and large corporations. These products and services are sold through various channels including direct mail, on-line, targeted sales forces, and direct response advertising.      Our general-purpose card network, card-issuing and merchant-acquiring and processing businesses are global in scope. We are a world leader
in providing charge and credit cards to consumers, small businesses and corporations. These cards include cards issued by American Express as well as cards issued by third-party banks
        
   2   

Table of Contents  

and other institutions that are accepted on the American Express network (collectively,  Cards ). Our Cards permit our cardmembers ( Cardmembers ) to charge purchases of goods
and services in most countries around the world at the millions of merchants that accept Cards bearing our logo. We have total worldwide Cards-in-force of 87.9 million (including Cards issued by third parties). In 2009, our worldwide billed
business (spending on American Express      Cards, including Cards issued by third parties) was $620 billion.
     Our business as a whole has not experienced significant seasonal fluctuations, although travel sales
generally tend to be highest in the second and fourth quarters. Travelers Cheque sales and Travelers Cheques outstanding tend to be greatest each year in the summer months, peaking in the third quarter. American Express      Gift Card sales are highest in the months of November and December; and Card billed business tends to be moderately
higher in the fourth quarter than in other quarters.       Organizational Changes       To put us in a better position to grow within our traditional businesses, new revenue categories and emerging payments, we implemented a
number of organizational changes in October 2009. To realize the full potential of our traditional card and network businesses, we grouped our global consumer and small business card-issuing, merchant and network businesses under the senior
leadership of our Vice Chairman. This move will enable us to sharpen our focus on our strongest growth opportunities, while maintaining the appropriate confidentiality protections. We are also creating an Enterprise Growth Group that will focus
exclusively on generating new sources of fee revenue from our existing assets and advancing our efforts in emerging payments. This includes developing new opportunities for growth that transcend individual businesses and take advantage of
technological trends. In addition, under the leadership of our Group President and Chief Information Officer, we created a new Global Services Group that unites our U.S. and international cardmember servicing organizations, as well as most
processing and support functions across the Company, including among others, technology support and certain key processing functions in areas such as finance and human resources. With this change to Global Services, the Company is organizing support
functions by process rather than business unit, which the Company expects will streamline costs, reduce duplication of work, better integrate skills and expertise, and improve customer service. This organization has been tasked with generating an
annualized level of gross expense savings of approximately $500 million by 2012. It is expected that a portion of any such savings would be reinvested in growth initiatives. Also, as part of the organizational changes, our Chief Executive Officer is
now working directly with the leaders of our Global Commercial Card and Global Travel Services groups on overall strategies to capitalize on Business-to-Business growth opportunities.       Spend-Centric Model is Competitive Advantage       Despite the challenges of the
current economic environment, we believe our  spend-centric  business model (which focuses on generating revenues primarily by driving spending on our Cards and secondarily by finance charges and fees) continues to give us significant
competitive advantages, even when the overall spending level is down. Average spending on our Cards, which is substantially higher on a per-card basis for us versus our competitors, represents greater value to merchants in the form of loyal
customers and higher sales. This enables us to earn a premium discount rate and thereby invest in greater value-added services for merchants and Cardmembers. As a result of the higher revenues generated from higher spending, we have the flexibility
to offer more attractive rewards, other incentives to Cardmembers and targeted marketing programs for merchants, which in turn creates an incentive for Cardmembers to spend more on their Cards. The significant investments we make in rewards and
other compelling value propositions for Cardmembers drives Card usage at merchants. This business model, along with our closed-loop network, in which we are both the Card issuer and, in most instances, the merchant acquirer, gives us a competitive
advantage that we seek to leverage to provide more value to Cardmembers, merchants and our Card-issuing partners.       The American Express
Brand       Our brand and its attributes trust, security, integrity, quality and customer service are key assets of
the Company. We continue to focus on our brand by educating employees about these attributes and by incorporating them into our programs, products and services. Our brand has consistently been rated one of the most valuable brands in the world in
published studies, and we believe it provides us with a significant competitive advantage.
        
   3   

Table of Contents  

We believe our brand and its attributes are critical to our success, and we invest heavily in managing, marketing and promoting it. In addition, we place significant importance on trademarks,
service marks and patents, and diligently protect our intellectual property rights around the world.         GLOBAL NETWORK   MERCHANT SERVICES       The Global Network   Merchant
Services ( GNMS ) segment operates a global general-purpose charge and credit card network for both proprietary Cards and Cards issued under the global network services business. It also manages merchant services globally, which includes
signing merchants to accept Cards as well as processing and settling Card transactions for those merchants. This segment also offers merchants point-of-sale, servicing and settlement and marketing and information products and services.   
  Cards bearing our logo are issued by our principal operating subsidiary, TRS, the Company s U.S. bank subsidiaries, American Express
Centurion Bank ( Centurion Bank ) and American Express Bank, FSB ( AEBFSB ), and by other operating and bank subsidiaries outside the United States. They are accepted at all merchant locations worldwide that accept American
Express-branded Cards. In addition, depending on the product, Cards bearing our logo are generally accepted at ATM locations worldwide that accept Cards. TRS and its subsidiaries, including Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, issue the majority of Cards on
our network.      Our Global Network Services ( GNS ) business establishes and maintains relationships with banks and
other institutions around the world that issue Cards and, in certain countries, acquire local merchants on the American Express network. GNS is key to our strategy of broadening the Cardmember and merchant base for our network worldwide.   
  Our Global Merchant Services ( GMS ) business provides us with access to rich transaction data through our closed-loop network,
which encompasses relationships with both the Cardmember and the merchant. This capability helps us acquire new merchants, deepen relationships with existing merchants, process transactions, and provide targeted marketing, analytical and other
value-added services to merchants in our network. In addition, it allows us to analyze trends and spending patterns among various segments of our customer base.      A key asset of our network is the American Express brand, which is one of the world s most highly recognized and respected brands.       Global Network Services       We continue to pursue a strategy, through our GNS
business, of inviting U.S. and foreign banks and other institutions to issue Cards and acquire merchants on the American Express network. By leveraging our global infrastructure and the appeal of the American Express brand, we broaden our Cardmember
and merchant base for our network worldwide. The GNS business has established more than 130 card-issuing and/or merchant-acquiring arrangements with banks and other institutions in 129 countries.      Historically, we had successfully implemented our GNS business strategy in a number of countries outside the United States. In contrast to
the situation outside the United States, until 2004, no major U.S. banks had issued Cards in the United States on the American Express global network. This situation was the result of rules and policies of Visa Inc., Visa USA, and Visa International
(collectively  Visa ) and MasterCard International, Inc. ( MasterCard ) in the United States at the time, which mandated expulsion of members that issued American Express-branded Cards. These rules were struck down in 2004 in a
lawsuit brought by the U.S. Department of Justice. As a result of this decision, beginning in 2004, we have been able to extend our network to other card issuers in the United States, just as we have done internationally.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

   In 2009, GNS signed 7 new partners to issue Cards and/or acquire merchants on the American
Express network. Additionally, GNS partners launched approximately 100 new products during 2009, bringing the total number of American Express-branded GNS partner products launched to date to approximately 1,030.      GNS focuses on partnering with qualified third-party banks and other financial institutions that choose to issue Cards accepted on our
global network and/or acquire merchants on our network. Although we customize our network arrangements to the particular country and each partner s requirements, as well as to our strategic plans in that marketplace, all GNS arrangements are
designed to help issuers develop products for their highest-spending and most affluent customers and to support the value of American Express Card acceptance to merchants. We choose to partner with institutions that share a core set of attributes
compatible with the American Express brand, such as commitment to high quality standards and strong marketing expertise, and we require adherence to our product, brand and service standards.**      With approximately 1,030 different Card products launched on our network so far by our partners, GNS is an increasingly important business
that is strengthening our brand visibility around the world, driving more transaction volume onto our merchant network and increasing the number of merchants accepting the American Express Card. GNS enables us to expand our network s global
presence generally without assuming additional Cardmember credit risk or having to invest a large amount of resources, as our GNS partners already have established attractive customer bases they can target with American Express-branded products, and
are responsible for managing the credit risk associated with the Cards they issue. Since 1999, Cards-in-force issued by GNS partners have grown at a compound annual growth rate of 25%, and totaled over 26 million Cards at the end of 2009.
Outside the United States, 74% of new Cards issued in 2009 were Cards issued by GNS partners. Spending on GNS Cards has grown at a compound annual rate of 25% since 1999. Year over year spending growth on these Cards in 2009 was 7%, with total
spending equal to $72 billion.       GNS Arrangements       Although the structures and details of each of the GNS arrangements vary, all of them generate revenues for us from the Card transaction volumes they drive on the American Express network. Gross revenues
we receive per dollar spent on a Card issued by a GNS partner are lower than those from our proprietary Card-issuing business. However, because the GNS partner is responsible for most of the operating costs and risk of its Card-issuing business, our
operating expenses and credit losses are lower than those in our proprietary Card-issuing business. The GNS business model generates an attractive earnings stream and risk profile that requires a lower level of capital support. The return on equity
in our GNS business can thus be significantly higher than that of our proprietary Card-issuing business. In addition, since the majority of GNS costs are fixed, the GNS business is highly scalable. GNS partners benefit from their association with
the American Express brand and their ability to gain attractive revenue streams and expand and differentiate their product offerings with innovative marketing programs.      Our GNS arrangements fall into the following three main categories: Independent Operator Arrangements, Network Card License Arrangements and Joint Venture Arrangements.       Independent Operator Arrangements       The first type of GNS arrangement is known as an independent operator ( IO ) arrangement. As of the end of 2009, we had 65 of these arrangements around the world. We pursue these arrangements to
expand the presence of the American Express network in markets in which we do not offer a proprietary local currency Card. The partner s local presence and relationships help us enhance the impact of our brand in the market, reach

**  
  The use of the term  partner  or  partnering  does not mean or imply a formal legal partnership, and is not meant in any way to alter the terms of
American Express s relationship with third-party issuers and merchant acquirers.           
   5   

Table of Contents  

merchant coverage goals more quickly, and operate at economic scale and cost levels that would be difficult for us to achieve on our own. Subject to meeting our standards, IO bank partners are
licensed to issue local currency Cards in their markets, including the classic Green, Gold and Platinum American Express Cards. In addition, the majority of these partners serve as the merchant acquirer and processor for local merchants. American
Express retains the relationship with multinational merchants. Our IO partners own the customer relationships and credit risk for the Cards they issue, and make the decisions about which customers will be issued Cards. GNS generates revenues in IO
arrangements from Card licensing fees, royalties on Cardmember billings, foreign exchange conversion revenue, royalties on charge volume at merchants, share of discount revenue and, in some partnerships, royalties on net spread revenue or royalties
on cards-in-force. Our IO partners are responsible for transaction authorization, billing and pricing, Cardmember and merchant servicing, and funding Card receivables for their Cards and payables for their merchants.      We bear the credit risk arising from the IO partner s potential failure to meet its settlement obligations to us. We mitigate this risk
by partnering with institutions that we believe are financially sound and will meet their obligations, and by monitoring their financial health, their compliance with the terms of their relationship with us and the political, economic and regulatory
environment in which they operate. In addition, depending on an IO partner s credit rating and other indicators of financial health, we may require an IO partner to post a letter of credit, bank guarantee or other collateral to reduce this
risk.      Examples of countries where we have entered into IO arrangements include Brazil, Russia, China, Ecuador, Greece, South
Korea, Pakistan, Croatia, Peru, Portugal, Vietnam, Georgia and Bangladesh. Through our IO partnerships, we believe we can accelerate growth in Cardmember spending, Cards-in-force and merchant acceptance in these countries.       Network Card License Arrangements       The second type of GNS arrangement is known as a network card license ( NCL ). At the end of 2009, we had 61 of these arrangements in place worldwide. We pursue these arrangements to increase
our brand presence and gain market share in markets in which we have a proprietary Card-issuing and/or merchant acquiring business and, in a few cases, those in which we have IO partners. In an NCL arrangement, we grant the third-party financial
institution a license to issue American Express-branded Cards. The NCL issuer owns the customer relationships for all Cards it issues, provides customer service to its Cardmembers, authorizes transactions, manages billing and credit, is responsible
for marketing the Cards, and designs Card product features (including rewards and other incentives for Cardmembers), subject to meeting certain standards. We operate the merchant network, route and process Card transactions from the merchant s
point-of-sale through submission to the issuer, and settle with issuers. The NCL is the type of arrangement we have implemented with banks in the United States, United Kingdom, Australia and Japan.      GNS  revenues in NCL arrangements are driven by a variety of factors, including the level of Cardmember spending, royalties, currency
conversions and licensing fees paid by the partner and fees charged to the Card issuer based on charge volume, and our provision of value-added services such as Cardmember insurance products and other Card features and benefits for the issuer s
Cards. As indicated above, the NCL issuer bears the credit risk for the issued Cards, as well as the Card marketing and acquisition costs, Cardmember fraud risks and costs of rewards and other loyalty initiatives. We bear the risk arising from the
NCL partner s potential failure to meet its settlement obligations to us. We mitigate this risk by partnering with institutions that we believe are financially sound and will meet their obligations, and by monitoring their financial health,
their compliance with the terms of their relationship with us and the political, economic and regulatory environment in which they operate. In addition, depending on an NCL issuer s credit rating and other indicators of financial health, we may
require an NCL issuer to post a letter of credit, bank guarantee or other collateral to reduce this risk.      Examples of NCL
arrangements include our relationships with Bank of America in the United States, Lloyds TSB Bank in the United Kingdom and Westpac Banking Corporation in Australia.         
   6   

Table of Contents  

    Joint Venture Arrangements       The third type of GNS arrangement is a joint venture ( JV ) arrangement. We have utilized this type of arrangement in Switzerland
and Belgium, as well as in other countries. In these markets, we join with a third-party to establish a separate business in which we have a significant ownership stake. The JV typically signs new merchants to the American Express network and issues
local currency Cards that carry our logo. In a JV arrangement, the JV is responsible for the Cardmember credit risk and bears the operating and marketing costs. Unlike the other two types of GNS arrangements, we share management, risk, and profit
and loss responsibility with our JV partners. Income is generated by discount revenues, card fees and net spread revenues. The economics of the JV are similar to those of our proprietary Card-issuing business, which we discuss under
 U.S. Card Services,  and we receive a portion of the JV s income depending on, among other things, the level of our ownership interest. Our subsidiary, AEOCC Ltd., purchases card receivables from certain of the GNS JVs from time
to time.       GNS Business Highlights       Outside the United States we signed a number of agreements in 2009 to enhance our presence in existing markets and further expanded our global presence into new markets.      Some of the highlights of our GNS business outside the United States in 2009 include:       

Announcement of new card partnerships in the Asia-Pacific region with ANZ, one of the largest banks in Australia and a leading bank in New Zealand and
the South Pacific, Commonwealth Bank, which operates the largest financial services distribution network in Australia, and United Overseas Bank Limited (UOB), one of the leading credit card issuers in Singapore          

Announcement of our new partnership in Brazil with Banco do Brasil and the issuance of the Ourocard Estilo Platinum American Express and Ourocard
Platinum American Express      products          

Issuance of the City Bank American Express      Gold Credit Card and the City Bank American Express      Credit Card in Bangladesh, with our new partner, City Bank          

Launch of the American Express      Card and the American Express      Gold Card in Georgia, with our new partner, Bank of Georgia.         GNS continues to expand its airline co-brand portfolio, launching 12 new airline co-brands in 2009 bringing the total to 49 airline co-brand products. Some of the key airline co-brand launches outside the
United States in 2009 include:       

Launch of Quantas Airlines co-brand cards with National Australia Bank and ANZ in Australia          

Launch of the Turkish Airlines co-brand card with Garanti Bank.         Some of the highlights of our GNS business in the United States in 2009 include:       

Launch of The PenFed Premium Travel Rewards American Express      Card with our new partner Pentagon Federal Credit Union (PenFed)          

Expansion of our wealth management portfolio in the United States with Bank of America s launch of the Merrill Accolades  American
Express      Card, developed for Bank of America Merrill Lynch s wealth management clients

Launch of The Fidelity      Private Client American Express    
  Card, the fourth Card in Fidelity s American Express portfolio.            
   7   

Table of Contents  

    Global Merchant Services       We operate a GMS business, which includes signing merchants to accept Cards, accepting and processing Card transactions, and settling with
merchants that accept Cards for purchases made by Cardmembers with Cards ( Charges ). We also provide marketing, information and programs to merchants, leveraging the capabilities provided by our closed-loop structure, as well as
point-of-sale products and servicing.      Our objective is for Cardmembers to be able to use the Card wherever and however they
desire, and to increase merchant coverage in key geographic areas and in selected new industries that have not traditionally accepted general-purpose credit and charge cards as a means of payment. We add new merchants to our network through a number
of sales channels: a proprietary sales force, third-party sales and service agents, strategic alliances with banks and processors, the Internet, telemarketing and inbound  Want to Honor  calls (i.e., where merchants desiring to accept the
Card contact us directly). As discussed in the  Global Network Services  section, our IO partners and JVs also add new local merchants to the American Express network.      During 2009, we continued expanding our integrated American Express OnePoint      solution for small- and medium-sized merchants. Under this program, third-party service agents provide payment processing services to merchants on our
behalf for Card transactions, while we retain the acceptance contract with participating merchants, establish merchant pricing and receive the same transactional information we always have received through our closed-loop network. This program
simplifies card processing for small- and medium-sized merchants by providing them with a single source for statements, settlement and customer service.      GMS continues to significantly expand the number of merchants that accept our Card products as well as the kinds of businesses that accept the Card. Over the last several years, we have focused our
efforts on increasing the use of our Cards for everyday spending. In 1990, 64% of our U.S. billings came from the travel and entertainment sectors and 36% came from retail and other sectors. That proportion has now been more than reversed. In 2009,
U.S. non-travel and entertainment billings represented approximately 71% of the U.S. billed business on American Express Cards. This shift resulted from the growth, over time, in the types of merchants that began to accept charge and credit cards in
response to consumers  increased desire to use these cards for more of their purchases, and our focus on expanding Card acceptance to meet Cardmembers  needs.      During 2009, we continued our efforts to encourage consumers to use the Card for everyday spending and to increase the number and types of merchants in retail and everyday spending categories that accept
the Card, such as quick-serve restaurants, mass transit and recurring billing merchants. For example, during 2009, we announced Card acceptance agreements in the United States with:       

Big Lots          

Hennes   Mauritz ( H M )          

Weis Markets Inc.         Outside the United States, we signed card acceptance agreements with:       

McDonald s Restaurants of Canada Limited, now accepting the Card at 1,200 locations across Canada          

Air Asia, Asia s leading lowfare carrier          

Yahoo! Auction, now accepting the Card in Japan          

PTT Public Company Limited, the largest petrol retail distributor in Thailand, now accepting the Card at its more than 900 petroleum service stations.
        In addition, we continued our drive to bring Card acceptance to industries where cash or checks are the
predominant form of payment. For example, we have made headway in promoting Card acceptance payments in
        
   8   

Table of Contents  

industries such as pharmaceuticals, construction, industrial supply and advertising. Acceptance agreements signed in 2009 in the United States include:       

Lehigh Hanson, one of North America s largest suppliers of heavy building materials to the construction industry          

Professional Veterinary Products, one of the nation s largest animal health products distributors.         Internationally, among others, a Card acceptance agreement was reached with Travis Perkins, a leading builders  merchant and home
improvement retailer headquartered in the United Kingdom, with more than 1,000 locations.      Globally, acceptance of
general-purpose charge and credit cards continues to increase. As in prior years, during 2009, we continued to grow merchant acceptance of Cards around the world and to refine our approach to calculating merchant coverage in accordance with changes
in the marketplace. Management estimates that, as of the end of 2009, our merchant network in the United States accommodated more than 90% of our Cardmembers  general-purpose charge and credit card spending, and our international merchant
network as a whole accommodated approximately 80% of our Cardmembers  general-purpose charge and credit card spending. These percentages are based on comparing our Cardmembers  spending on our network currently with our estimate of what
our Cardmembers would spend on our network if all merchants that accept general-purpose credit and charge cards accepted American Express Cards.      We earn  discount  revenue from fees charged to merchants for accepting Cards as payment for goods or services sold. The merchant discount is the fee charged to the merchant for accepting Cards
and is generally expressed as a percentage of the amount charged on a Card. In some instances, an additional flat transaction fee is assessed. The merchant discount is generally deducted from the amount of the payment that the  merchant
acquirer  (in most cases, TRS or one of its subsidiaries) pays to a merchant for Charges submitted. A merchant acquirer is the entity that contracts for Card acceptance with the merchant, accepts transactions from the merchant, pays the
merchant for these transactions and submits the transactions to the American Express network, which submits the transactions to the appropriate Card issuer. When a Cardmember presents the Card for payment, the merchant creates a record of charge for
the transaction and submits it to the merchant acquirer for payment. To the extent that TRS or one of its subsidiaries is the merchant acquirer, the merchant discount is recorded by us as discount revenue at the time the transaction is received by
us from the merchant.      Where we act as the merchant acquirer and the Card presented at a merchant is issued by a third-party
bank or financial institution, such as in the case of our GNS partners, we will make financial settlement to the merchant and receive the discount revenue. In our role as the operator of the Card network, we will also receive financial settlement
from the Card issuer, who receives an issuer rate (i.e., the individually negotiated amount that Card issuers receive for transactions charged on our network with Cards they issue, which is usually expressed as a percentage of the charged amount).
The difference between the discount revenue (received by us in the form of the merchant discount) and the issuer rate received by the Card issuer generates a return to us. In cases where American Express is the Card issuer and the merchant acquirer
is a third-party bank or financial institution (which can be the case in a country in which the IO is the local merchant acquirer), we receive an individually negotiated issuer rate in our settlement with the merchant acquirer, which is recorded by
us as discount revenue. By contrast with networks such as Visa and MasterCard, there is no collectively set interchange rate on the American Express network.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

   The following diagrams depict the relationships among the parties in a point-of-sale
transaction effected on the American Express network where we act as both the Card issuer and merchant acquirer (the  3-Party Model ) and under an NCL arrangement where third-party financial institutions act as Card issuers (the  NCL
Model ):   

The merchant discount we charge is principally determined by the value we deliver to the merchant and
generally represents a premium over other networks. We deliver greater value to merchants through higher spending Cardmembers relative to users of cards issued on competing card networks, our marketing expertise, information and fraud services, and
Cardmembers  insistence on using their Cards when enrolled in rewards or other Card loyalty programs, including Cardmembers who are part of our Corporate Card program.      The merchant discount varies, among other factors, with the industry in which the merchant does business, the merchant s Charge volume,
the timing and method of payment to the merchant, the method of submission of Charges and, in certain instances, the geographic scope of the Card acceptance agreement signed with us (local or global) and the Charge amount.      In 2009, as in prior years, we experienced some reduction in our global weighted average merchant discount rate. Over time, selective
re-pricing initiatives, changes in the mix of business and volume-related pricing discounts likely will continue to result in some erosion in the average discount rate.      While most merchants that accept our Cards understand our merchant discount pricing in relation to the value provided, we do encounter a relatively small number of merchants that accept our Cards, but
tell their customers that they prefer to accept another type of payment and, consequently, suppress use of the Card. Subject to local legal requirements, we respond to this issue vigorously to ensure that our Cardmembers are able to use their Card
where and when they want to and to protect the American Express brand. We have made progress limiting Card suppression by concentrating on acquiring merchants where Cardmembers want to use the Card; continuing to enhance the value we provide to
merchants through programs such as DailyWish and American
        
   10   

Table of Contents  

Express Selects     , which enable merchants of any size to
gain valuable exposure and additional sales by providing exclusive offers and experiences to American Express Cardmembers; developing and providing new and innovative business insights and fraud tools using information available through our
closed-loop network; providing better and earlier communication of our value proposition; and, when appropriate, cancelling merchants who suppress the use of our Card products. We recognize that it is the merchant s choice whether or not to
accept American Express cards, and therefore we dedicate substantial resources to delivering value to attract and retain our merchant customers.      The laws of certain countries and most states in the United States do not prohibit merchants from surcharging credit card purchases. American Express  policy generally does not prohibit surcharging
so long as it is permitted by law and a merchant does not discriminate against the Card by surcharging higher amounts on purchases with the Card than is imposed for purchases with other cards, or by imposing a surcharge only on Card purchases, but
not on purchases made with other cards. American Express also does not prohibit merchants from offering discounts to customers who pay with cash or check. For information concerning the Department of Justice s information and document request
regarding our policies relating to merchant surcharging and  anti-steering,  please see  Other Matters  within  Legal Proceedings  below beginning on page 87.      Merchant satisfaction is a key goal of our GMS business. We focus on understanding and addressing factors that influence merchant
satisfaction, including developing and executing innovative programs that increase Card usage at merchants, using technology resources, enhancing operational efficiencies and merchants  ease of doing business with us, making our United States
operating procedures easily available to merchants on our Web site, applying our closed-loop capabilities and deep marketing expertise, and strengthening our relationships with merchants through an expanding roster of services that helps them meet
their business goals.      We also offer our merchant customers a full range of point-of-sale solutions, including integrated
point-of-sale terminals, software, online solutions, and direct links that allow merchants to accept American Express Cards (as well as credit and debit cards issued on other networks and checks). Virtually all proprietary point-of-sale solutions
support direct processing (i.e., direct connectivity) to American Express, which can lower a merchant s cost of Card acceptance and enhance payment efficiency.      We continue to focus our commitment to driving global interoperability in payment card specifications, making it easier for merchants to accept our Cards, for Cardmembers to have a more seamless
experience at the point of sale, and for issuers who have more than one network relationship to have a standard across their card products. In January 2009, we became the fourth owner-member of EMVCo, the standards body that manages, maintains, and
enhances specifications for chip-based payment cards and acceptance devices, including point-of-sale terminals. Our participation in this company will help drive secure and interoperable payments globally for transactions made with chip cards by
aligning and progressing the EMV  specifications. Further, as EMVCo s scope expands to include emerging payment technologies such as contactless cards and mobile phones, our participation will allow for our products and specifications to
be universally compatible and ready for merchant acceptance.      We continue to focus our efforts in areas
that make use and acceptance of the Card more convenient for merchants and Cardmembers. For instance, ExpressPay from American Express     , a contactless payment feature embedded in certain cards, continues to provide a fast, easy-to-use alternative for making everyday purchases at merchants where speed
and convenience is important. In the U.S., top quick-service restaurants, movie theaters, drug and convenience stores and major retail chains readily accept payments through ExpressPay, which is powered by radio-frequency technology that is
currently embedded within several Card products. Similarly, Automatic Bill Payment focuses on providing convenience by allowing merchants to bill Cardmembers on a regular basis for recurring charges approved by the Cardmember such as insurance
premiums, newspaper subscriptions, health club memberships, commutation costs and telecommunication services. We have also made modifications to our host authorization system to approve more transactions and reduce Cardmember inconvenience at the
point-of-sale including eliminating the signature requirement for transactions of $25 or less.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

   Wherever we manage both the acquiring relationship with merchants and the Card-issuing side
of the business, there is a  closed-loop,  which distinguishes our network from the bankcard networks, in that we have access to information at both ends of the Card transaction. We maintain direct relationships with both our Cardmembers
and our merchants, and we handle all key aspects of those relationships. Our relationships allow us to analyze information on Cardmember spend. This enables us to provide targeted marketing for merchants and special offers to Cardmembers through a
variety of channels. At the same time, we protect the confidentiality of this data, and comply with our privacy and firewall policies and applicable legal requirements.      We work closely with our Card-issuing and merchant-acquiring bank partners to maintain key elements of this closed-loop, which permits them to customize marketing efforts, deliver greater value to their
Cardmembers and help us to direct increased business to merchants who accept the Card.      As the merchant acquirer, we have
certain exposures that arise if a billing dispute between a Cardmember and a merchant is settled in favor of the Cardmember. Drivers of this liability are returns in the normal course of business, disputes over fraudulent charges, the quality or
non-delivery of goods and services and billing errors. Typically, we offset the amount due to the Cardmember against payments for the merchant s current or future Charge submissions. We can realize losses when a merchant s offsetting
Charge submissions cease, such as when the merchant decides to no longer accept the Card, commences a bankruptcy proceeding or goes out of business. We actively monitor our merchant base to assess the risk of this exposure. When appropriate, we will
take action to reduce the net exposure to a given merchant by holding cash reserves funded through Charge payable holdbacks from a merchant, lengthening the time between when the merchant submits a Charge for payment and when we pay the merchant by
requiring the merchant to secure a letter of credit or a parent company guarantee, or implementing other appropriate risk management tools. We also establish reserves on our balance sheet for these contingencies in accordance with relevant
accounting rules.      With the increase in electronic transmission of payment card transaction data over merchants 
point-of-sale systems, American Express and the other major card networks recognized the necessity for merchants and merchant processors to secure this data against accidental or intentional compromise using a standard protocol that applies to all
card types. In 2006, in order to strengthen the security practices of merchants and payment processing firms and to secure payment account data in a globally consistent manner, we and Discover Financial Services, JCB, MasterCard Worldwide and Visa
formed PCI Security Standards Council, LLC ( PCI SSC ), an independent standards-setting organization. PCI SSC s role is to manage the Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard, and more recently the PCI PIN Entry Device
(PED) Security Requirements and the Payment Application Data Security Standard, which focus on improving payment card account security throughout the transaction process. By establishing PCI SSC, we and the other founders have developed common
standards that are more accessible and efficient for participants in the payment card industry. All our merchants and service providers that store, process and transmit payment card data are required to comply with the PCI Data Security Standard.
PCI SSC is dedicated to driving greater education, awareness and adoption of these security standards to ensure that all stakeholders involved in the payment process conduct their business responsibly.      In some markets outside the United States, particularly in Asia, third-party processors and some bankcard acquirers have begun to offer
merchants the capability of converting credit card transactions from the local currency to the currency of the cardholder s residence (i.e., the cardholder s billing currency) at the point-of-sale, and submitting the transaction in the
cardholder s billing currency, thus bypassing the traditional foreign currency conversion process of the card network. This practice is known as  dynamic currency conversion.  If a merchant utilizes a dynamic currency conversion
process, the merchant and processor share any fee assessed or spread earned for converting the transaction at the point-of-sale, thus reducing or eliminating revenue for card issuers and card networks relating to the conversion of foreign charges to
the cardholder s billing currency. This practice is not widespread, and it is uncertain to what extent consumers will prefer to have foreign currency transactions converted by merchants in this way. Our policy generally requires merchants to
submit Charges and be paid in the currency of the country in which the transaction occurs, and we convert the transaction to the Cardmember s billing currency.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

    GLOBAL NETWORK   MERCHANT SERVICES Competition       Our global card network, including our Global Merchant Services and Global Network Services businesses, competes with other charge and credit
card networks, including, among others, Visa, MasterCard, Diners Club International (which was acquired by Discover Financial Services), Discover (primarily in the United States), and JCB Co., Ltd. (primarily in Asia). We are the third largest
general-purpose charge and credit card network based on charge volume, behind Visa and MasterCard, which are larger than we are in most markets. In addition, apart from such network services, a range of companies globally, including merchant
acquirers and processors, carry out some activities similar to those performed by our GMS and GNS businesses. No single entity participates on a global basis in the full range of activities that are encompassed by our closed-loop business model.
     The principal competitive factors that affect the network and merchant service businesses include:       

the number of Cards-in-force and amount of spending on these Cards          

the quantity and quality of the establishments where the Cards can be used          

the economic attractiveness to card issuers and merchant acquirers of participating in the network          

the success of marketing and promotional campaigns          

reputation and brand recognition          

innovation in systems, technology and product offerings, particularly in on-line commerce          

the quality of customer service          

the security of Cardmember and merchant information          

the impact of existing litigation, legislation and government regulation          

the cost of Card acceptance relative to the value provided.         Another aspect of network competition is the recent emergence and rapid growth of alternative payment mechanisms and systems, which include
aggregators (such as PayPal), wireless payment technologies (including using mobile telephone networks to carry out transactions), prepaid systems and systems linked to credit cards, and bank transfer models. To the extent alternative payment
mechanisms and systems, such as aggregators, continue to successfully expand in the online payments space, our merchant revenues and our ability to access transaction data through our closed-loop network could be negatively impacted. In the United
States, alternative payment vehicles continue to emerge that seek to redirect online customers to payment systems based on ACH (automated clearing house, i.e., inter-bank transfer), and existing debit networks are making efforts to develop online
PIN functionality, which could potentially reduce the relative use of charge and credit cards online. For a discussion concerning our recent acquisition of Revolution Money Inc. in the emerging payments area, please see  Enterprise Growth 
beginning on page 34 below.      Some of our competitors have attempted to replicate our closed-loop structure, such as Visa,
with its Visa Incentive Network. Although it remains to be seen how effective Visa will be, efforts by Visa and other card networks and payment providers to replicate the closed-loop speak to its continued value and to the intense competitive
environment in which we operate.       GLOBAL NETWORK   MERCHANT SERVICES Regulation       Local regulations governing the issuance of charge and credit cards have not been a significant factor impacting GNS  arrangements with
banks and qualifying financial institutions, because such banks and institutions generally are already authorized to issue general-purpose cards and, in the case of our IO arrangements, to operate merchant-acquiring businesses. Accordingly, our GNS
partners have generally not had difficulty obtaining appropriate government authorization in the markets in which we have chosen to enter into GNS arrangements. As a network service provider to regulated U.S. banks, our GNS business is subject to
review
        
   13   

Table of Contents  

by certain federal bank regulators, including the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of
Thrift Supervision. As the operator of a general-purpose card network, we are also subject to certain provisions of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act and the accompanying regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury
(collectively referred to as the  Bank Secrecy Act ), as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the  Patriot Act ). We conduct due diligence on our GNS partners to ensure that they have implemented and maintain sufficient
anti-money laundering ( AML ) controls to prevent our network from being used for money laundering or terrorist financing purposes. As a result of American Express Company and TRS each becoming bank holding companies, our business is also
subject to further regulation and regulatory oversight by the Federal Reserve. For additional information about this change in regulatory status, please see  Supervision and Regulation General  beginning on page 35 below.
     In recent years, regulators in several countries outside the United States have focused on the fees involved in the operation
of card networks, including interchange fees paid to card issuers and the fees merchants are charged to accept cards. Regulators in the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, Poland, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Hungary, the European Union (EU),
Australia, Brazil, Mexico, Venezuela, among others, have conducted investigations that are either ongoing or on appeal.      The
interchange fee, which is the collectively set fee paid by the bankcard merchant acquirer to the card issuing bank in  four party  payment networks, like Visa and MasterCard, is generally the largest component of the merchant service
charge payable by merchants for bankcard debit and credit card acceptance in these systems .  By contrast, the American Express network does not have collectively set interchange fees. Although the regulators  focus has primarily been on
Visa and MasterCard as the dominant card networks and their operations on a multilateral basis, antitrust actions and government regulation of the bankcard associations  pricing could ultimately affect all networks. Lower interchange and/or
merchant discount revenue may lead card issuers to look for other sources of revenue from consumers such as higher annual card fees or interest charges, as well as to reduce costs by scaling back or eliminating rewards programs.      In certain countries where antitrust actions or regulations have led our competitors to lower their fees, we have made adjustments to our
pricing to merchants to reflect local competitive trends. For example, reductions in bankcard interchange mandated by the Reserve Bank of Australia reforms in 2003 have resulted in lower merchant discount rates for Visa and MasterCard acceptance. As
a result of changes in the marketplace, we have reduced our own merchant discount rates in Australia, although we have been able to increase billed business and the number of merchants accepting our Cards. In addition, under legislation enacted in
Argentina, a merchant acquirer is required to charge the same merchant discount rate to all merchants in the same industry category, and merchant discount rates for credit cards cannot exceed 3%. The Central Bank of Venezuela has issued regulations
regarding the maximum level of merchant discount rates by industry category. In Hungary, recently enacted legislation will require point-of-sale service charges not to exceed 2%.      In Europe, investigations of interchange are usually handled by the domestic competition law authorities, as well as the European
Commission. In its Final Report on the retail banking sector issued in January 2007, which included a review of the payment cards industry, including interchange fees, the European Commission appeared to favor competition law enforcement tools,
rather than regulation of price levels, to address perceived competition issues. The conclusions of the European Commission in its Final Report do not have the force of law, but may be used as the basis for future regulation or antitrust enforcement
action in the EU Member States.      In December 2007, the European Commission ruled that MasterCard s multilateral
interchange fees ( MIF ) for cross-border payment card transactions violate EC Treaty rules on restrictive business practices. The Commission s decision applies to cross-border consumer credit, charge and debit card transactions
within the EU and to domestic transactions to which MasterCard has chosen to apply the cross-border MIF. The ruling does not prevent MasterCard and its member banks from adopting an alternative MIF arrangement that can be proven to comply with EU
Competition rules. Although the Commission s investigation included commercial cards, it has
        
   14   

Table of Contents  

reserved judgment for the time being on the legality of MasterCard s cross-border MIF for commercial card transactions. MasterCard lodged an appeal against the Commission s findings,
which is pending. An interim settlement has been agreed to between the Commission and MasterCard, capping MIF at 30 basis points for consumer card transactions and 20 basis points for debit card transactions.      In 2002, the Commission granted an exemption to Visa regarding its MIFs. This exemption expired on December 31, 2007 and in March 2008
the Commission opened formal antitrust proceedings against Visa Europe Limited in relation to Visa s MIFs for cross-border consumer card transactions. The Commission has indicated that the MasterCard decision should  provide Visa with
guidance for the way ahead,  although it stated that  every MIF must be examined on its own merits.       These
developments may affect how the competition authorities in the Member States of the EU view domestic interchange. In 2007, for example, the competition regulator in Poland found insufficient basis for Visa and MasterCard interchange fees and ordered
the associations and their members to stop their current interchange setting practices immediately. The banks appealed that decision, and in November 2008 the decision was overturned. The Polish Competition Authority has appealed that ruling.
     In August 2009, Visa and MasterCard settled an anti-trust case with the New Zealand regulatory authorities regarding whether
the setting of interchange rates constituted price fixing and whether other scheme rules lessened competition. The settlement results in changes to the Visa and MasterCard scheme rules, which will set maximum interchange rates and also allow
bilateral setting of lower interchange rates between issuers and acquirers, as well as remove the schemes  no surcharging rules. The full extent of the impact of the changes to interchange on our discount rate in New Zealand is not likely to be
known until the schemes publish their maximum interchange rates on April 17, 2010.      Regulators have also considered the
industry practice of prohibiting merchants from passing the cost of merchant discount fees along to consumers through surcharges on card purchases. In Australia, we have seen selective, but increasing, merchant surcharging on our Cards in certain
industries and, in some cases, on a basis that is greater than that applied to cards issued on the bankcard networks. The European Union has adopted a new legislative framework for electronic payment services, including cards, referred to as the
Payment Services Directive. The Payment Services Directive prescribes common rules for licensing and supervision of payment services providers, including card issuers and merchant acquirers, and for their conduct of business. The objective of the
Payment Services Directive is to facilitate the creation of a single, internal payments market in the EU through harmonization of EU Member State laws governing payment services. One provision of the Payment Services Directive permits merchants to
surcharge, subject to disclosure requirements, but also allows individual Member States to override this rule by prohibiting or limiting surcharging. To date, the United Kingdom has decided to permit surcharging (and the United Kingdom has for a
number of years permitted merchants to levy a surcharge on credit card purchases). There are varied approaches in most of the other countries where some prohibit surcharging, others allow surcharging, and still others allow surcharging but limit it
in some way, such as by capping the surcharge allowed or limiting the types of transactions where surcharging is permitted. All member states permit or propose to permit discounts. The Payment Services Directive complements another European
initiative, the Single Euro Payments Area ( SEPA ), which is an industry-led initiative with support from EU institutions. Among other changes, SEPA will involve the adoption of new, pan-European technical standards for cards and card
transactions. All of the foregoing requires significant costs to implement and maintain.      In the United States, Congress
continues to debate the interchange issue. There have been several hearings on Visa/MasterCard interchange over the last several years, and in 2009 at the request of Congress, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) completed a study on the
structure of interchange fees and their impact on consumers and merchants. The report provides a balanced view of the interchange issue and explains how large merchants would benefit and how consumers could be harmed by the pending legislative
proposals. In 2009, legislation was reintroduced in Congress that would give all U.S. merchants antitrust immunity to negotiate
        
   15   

Table of Contents  

collectively the price and terms of card acceptance on networks. The House Judiciary Committee bill covers networks with at least a 20% share of U.S. credit and debit card payments combined,
which would not apply to the American Express network but, if enacted, would have an effect on American Express in the marketplace. The Senate version of the bill covers networks with at least 10% of U.S. credit or debit payments, which would apply
to American Express. Both bills have a default process for having prices and terms set through government action rather than competitive forces. A similar version of the House bill (the  Credit Card Fair Fee Act ) was passed in the House
Judiciary Committee in 2008. No action was taken on either of these bills in 2009. The House Financial Services Committee held a hearing on a third piece of interchange-related legislation that was reintroduced in 2009 (the  Credit Card
Interchange Fees Act ), a bill that would regulate payment network rules, including the American Express network. No further action was taken on this bill. It is expected that Congressional hearings will continue in 2010 on the interchange
issue. The Federal Reserve and various Federal Reserve Banks have been following developments on interchange and have held several conferences focused on interchange rates. While the Federal Reserve has expressed interest in monitoring this issue,
it has not indicated the need to regulate interchange rates in the United States.      During the last three years, there were
also a number of bills proposed in individual state legislatures seeking to impose caps on credit card interchange or to prohibit card companies from charging merchant discount on the sales tax portion of credit card purchases. Other proposals were
aimed at increasing the transparency of card network rules for merchants. In addition, a number of bills were proposed to establish merchant liability for the costs of a data security breach of a merchant s system or require merchants to adopt
technical safeguards to protect sensitive card holder payment information. Proposed state legislation aimed at regulating pricing or other aspects of merchants  card acceptance will continue during 2010. In the event that governmental or
regulatory activity to limit interchange or merchant fees continues or increases, or state data security legislation is adopted, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. During the last few years as regulatory interest in credit
card network pricing to merchants and related issues has increased, the Company has responded to many inquiries from banking and competition authorities throughout the world. For information about our ongoing response to a Civil Investigative Demand
from the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice, please see  Other Matters  within  Legal Proceedings  below.         U.S. CARD SERVICES       As a significant part of our
proprietary Card-issuing business, our U.S. banking subsidiaries, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, issue a wide range of Card products and services to consumers and small businesses in the United States. Our consumer travel business, which provides travel
services to Cardmembers and other consumers, complements our core Card business, as does our Global Prepaid business. The proprietary Card business offers a broad set of card products to attract our target customer base. Core elements of our
strategy are:       

focusing on acquiring and retaining high-spending, creditworthy Cardmembers          

designing Card products with features that appeal to specific customer segments          

the use of strong incentives to drive spending on our various Card products, including our Membership Rewards      program and other rewards features          

the use of loyalty programs such as Delta SkyMiles, sponsored by our co-brand and other partners to drive spending          

the development and nurturing of wide-ranging relationships with co-brand and other partners          

promoting and using incentives for Cardmembers to use their Cards in new and expanded merchant categories, including everyday spend and traditional
cash and check categories          

providing exceptional customer service.         In September, 2009, J.D. Power and Associates released its annual nationwide credit card satisfaction study and ranked American Express highest in overall satisfaction among 21 of the largest card issuers
in the United States, for the third consecutive year.         
   16   

Table of Contents  

    Consumer and Small Business Services       We offer individual consumer charge Cards such as the American Express      Card, the American Express      Gold Card, the Platinum Card     , and the ultra-premium Centurion    
  Card; revolving credit Cards such as Blue from American Express     , Blue Cash      Card from American Express and Blue Sky from American Express; and a variety of Cards sponsored by and co-branded
with other corporations and institutions, such as the Delta SkyMiles Credit Card from American Express, True Earnings    
  Card exclusively for Costco members, Starwood Preferred Guest Credit Card and JetBlue Card from American Express.       Centurion Bank
and AEBFSB as Issuers of Certain Cards       We have two U.S. bank subsidiaries, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, which are wholly
owned subsidiaries of TRS. Each bank is a Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) insured depository institution. The activities of Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are subject to examination by their respective regulators. Both banks take
steps to maintain compliance programs to address the various safety and soundness, internal control and compliance requirements, including anti-money laundering requirements that apply to them. You can find a further discussion of the anti-money
laundering initiatives affecting us under  Corporate   Other  below.      Certain additional information
regarding each bank is set forth in the table below:       

Centurion Bank   
      
   AEBFSB    
 
     Type of Bank    
      
  Utah-chartered industrial bank  
      
  Federal savings bank   
 
     Regulatory
Supervision    
      
  Regulated, supervised and regularly examined by the Utah Department of Financial Institutions and the FDIC  
      
  Regulated, supervised and regularly examined by the Office of Thrift Supervision
( OTS ), a bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury   
 
     Types of cards
issued    
      
         Revolving credit cards
          Consumer charge cards   
      
         Revolving credit cards          Consumer
charge cards          All OPEN      credit cards and charge cards    
 
     Marketing methods    

Primarily direct mail and other remote marketing channels  
      
         Direct mail and other remote marketing channels          In-person selling and third-party co-brand partners    
 
   Risk-based capital adequacy requirements*, based on Tier One risk-based capital, total
risk-based capital and Tier One core capital ratios at December 31, 2009   
      
  Well-capitalized  
      
  Well-capitalized**        

*  
  The risk-based capital standards for both the FDIC and OTS are substantively identical. A bank generally is deemed to be well capitalized if it maintains a Tier One
risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10% and a leverage ratio of at least 5%.     

**  
  Since January 2009, AEBFSB has committed to maintain a Total capital ratio of no less than 15%.         Charge Cards       Our charge
Cards, which generally carry no preset spending limits, are primarily designed as a method of payment and not as a means of financing purchases of goods or services. Charges are approved based on a variety of factors including a Cardmember s
current spending patterns, payment history, credit record, and financial resources. Cardmembers generally must pay the full amount billed each month, and no finance charges are assessed on the balance. Charge Card accounts that are past due are
subject, in most cases, to a delinquency
        
   17   

Table of Contents  

assessment and, if not brought to current status, may be cancelled. The no preset spending limit and pay-in-full nature of these products attract high-spending Cardmembers who want to use a
charge Card to facilitate larger payments.      The charge Cards also offer flexible payment features to
Cardmembers. The Sign   Travel      program gives qualified U.S. Cardmembers the option of extended
payments for airline, cruise and certain travel charges that are purchased with our charge Cards. The Extended Payment Option offers qualified U.S. Cardmembers the option of extending payment for certain charges on the charge Card in excess of a
specified amount.      In 2009, we launched two new Card products to the charge Card portfolio. Premier
Rewards Gold launched in October, targeting high-spending, frequent travelers who want to maximize rewards. This Card offers triple Membership Rewards      points on airfare purchases, double points on gas and grocery and single points on all other spend. In addition, cardmembers receive 15,000 bonus points when they
spend $30,000 in a year. In November, we piloted ZYNC   SM    Card from American Express, a new charge Card for a younger demographic with a low annual fee of $25. Cardmembers get core charge Card features and protections on the base card, and have the option of purchasing  packs  with
specialized lifestyle-based features and benefits.      During 2009, we launched the  Don t Take
Chances, Take Charge   SM     marketing campaign, which
highlights the benefits of the American Express Charge Card. The campaign is part of an ongoing effort to inform consumers about the charge Card and illustrates how it can help customers, particularly during difficult economic times. Our charge Card
products have global breadth, high average spend, lower losses and annual card fees. In addition, at a time when people are looking for financial discipline and value, charge Cards, being a pay-in-full product, allow consumers and companies to
control their debt.      In another effort to help Cardmembers achieve financial empowerment, we launched the
online Money Manager, where Cardmembers can track spend across all of their financial accounts not just American Express. Cardmembers can set budgets by category and receive alerts to keep them apprised of their spending versus their budget. We
also announced a unique, new service that helps American Express      Charge Cardmembers to set, manage, and track
spending limits on additional Cards on their account, which is available for anyone who is 15 years of age or older.       Revolving Credit
Cards       We offer a variety of revolving credit Cards. These Cards have a range of different payment terms, interest rate and
fee structures, rewards programs and Cardmember benefits. Revolving credit Card products, such as Blue from American Express, Blue Cash from American Express and Blue Sky from American Express, provide Card members with the flexibility to pay their
bill in full each month or carry a monthly balance on their Cards to finance the purchase of goods or services. Along with charge Cards and co-brand Cards, these revolving credit Cards attract affluent Cardmembers and promote increased relevance for
our expanding merchant network. Our non-co-Brand proprietary lending products represent approximately 13% of our US Card Services billings. As we continue to scale back on these Cards and target premium charge Card and co-brand Card products, the
Company s priority will be to drive billed business and average spend per card rather than achieve broad growth in cards-in-force.       Co-brand Cards       We issue Cards under co-brand agreements with selected commercial firms in the United States.
The competition among card issuers and networks for attractive co-brand card partnerships is quite intense because these partnerships can generate high-spending loyal cardholders. The duration of our co-brand arrangements generally ranges from five
to ten years. Cardmembers earn rewards provided by the partners  respective loyalty programs based upon their spending on the co-brand Cards, such as frequent flyer miles, hotel loyalty points and cash back. We make payments to our co-brand
partners, which can be significant, based primarily on the amount of Cardmember spending and corresponding rewards earned on such spending and, under certain arrangements, on the number of accounts acquired and retained. We expense amounts due under
co-brand arrangements in the month earned. Payment terms vary by arrangement, but are monthly or quarterly. Generally, once we make
        
   18   

Table of Contents  

payment to the co-brand partner, the partner is solely liable for providing rewards to the Cardmember under the co-brand partner s own loyalty program. As the issuer of the co-brand Card, we
retain all the credit risk with the Cardmember and bear the receivables funding and operating expenses for such Cards. The co-brand partner retains the risk associated with the miles, points or other currency earned by the Cardmember under the
partner s loyalty program.      During 2009, we extended our exclusive U.S. co-brand partnership with
Starwood Hotel and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. and JetBlue for a multi-year period, allowing for the continued expansion of the programs and providing attractive economic and business benefits for both companies. We also unveiled a number of new
benefits available on our Delta SkyMiles Credit Cards that allows Cardmembers to earn and redeem miles in more ways and places, on both Delta and Northwest-operated flights. In addition, we also launched a new premium co-branded credit Card called
the Hilton HHonors Surpass      Card from American Express, with several enhancements to the existing Hilton
HHonors      Card from American Express.       Co-brand Partnerships with Financial Services Institutions       We also issue
Cards that are marketed under co-brand partnership arrangements with financial services partners. Such partnerships involve the offering of a standard product (issued by TRS or one of its subsidiaries) to customers of the financial services partner,
generally co-branded with the partner s name on the Card. Under these arrangements, we make payments to the financial services partners that are primarily based on the number of accounts acquired and retained through the arrangement and the
amount of Cardmember spending on such Cards. The duration of such arrangements generally ranges from three to seven years.       Card Pricing
and Account Management       Certain Cards, particularly charge Cards, charge an annual fee that varies based on the type of
Card and the number of Cards for each account. We also offer many revolving credit Cards with no annual fee but on which we assess finance charges for revolving balances. Depending on the product, we also charge Cardmembers an annual program fee to
participate in the Membership Rewards programs and fees for account performance (e.g., late fees) or for certain services (e.g., additional copies of account statements). We apply standards and criteria for creditworthiness to each Cardmember
through a variety of means both at the time of initial solicitation or application and on an ongoing basis during the Card relationship. We use sophisticated credit models and techniques in our risk management operations. For a further description
of our risk management policies, please see  Risk Management  appearing on page 47 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.       Membership Rewards      Program       The Membership Rewards program
from American Express has over 1,600 redemption partners worldwide. The program allows Cardmembers to earn one point for virtually every dollar charged on eligible, enrolled American Express Cards, and then redeem points for a wide array of rewards,
including travel, retail merchandise, dining and entertainment, financial services and even donations to benefit tens of thousands of charities. Points generally have no expiration date and there is no limit on the number of points one can earn. A
large majority of spending by eligible Cardmembers earns points under this program.      The U.S. Membership
Rewards program has over 150 redemption partners and features over 500 merchandise brands. Membership Rewards program tiers are aligned with specific Card products to better meet Cardmember lifestyle and reward program usage needs. American Express
Cardmembers participate in one of three Membership Rewards program tiers based on the Credit or Charge Card they have in their wallet. For those Cardmembers with American Express Cards, such as Blue from American Express and ZYNC from American
Express, we have the Membership Rewards Express      program. American Express Charge Cardmembers with American
Express Green and Gold Cards have the Membership Rewards program. Platinum Card      members and Centurion      Card members are enrolled in the Membership Rewards First      program.         
   19   

Table of Contents  

   During the year we also expanded our list of redemption partners and announced a number of
innovations to meet customer demand.      We enhanced our Membership Rewards      program with the introduction of new reward options designed to provide cardmembers with greater breadth and variety
as well as utility. Specifically, these included: providing Cardmembers the ability to designate their points as payment for  everyday charges  within their online statement; the launch of the Membership Rewards Specials program featuring
specials for popular reward options, including electronics and travel products and services; and the addition of a number of new partners, such as Zappos.Com and British Airways, which give Cardmembers a broader range of opportunities to redeem
points with casual dining restaurants, retailers and airlines.      When a Cardmember enrolled in the Membership Rewards program
uses the Card, we establish reserves to cover the cost of estimated future reward redemptions for points earned to date. When a Membership Rewards program enrollee redeems a reward using Membership Rewards points, we make a payment to the Membership
Rewards program partner providing the reward pursuant to contractual arrangements. Membership Rewards expense is driven by Cardmember charge volume, customer participation in the program, and contractual arrangements with redemption partners. At
year end, we estimated that current Cardmembers will redeem approximately 90% of their points. For more information on our Membership Rewards Program, see  Critical Accounting Policies Reserves for Membership Rewards Costs  appearing
on page 24 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.      Membership
Rewards continues to be an important driver of Cardmember spending and loyalty. We believe, based on historical experience, that Cardmembers enrolled in rewards programs yield higher spend, stronger credit performance and greater profit for us. By
offering a broader range of redemption choices, we have given our Cardmembers more flexibility in the use of their rewards points and favorably affected our average cost per point. We continually seek to optimize the overall economics of the program
and make changes to enhance its value to Cardmembers. Our program is also valuable to merchants that become redemption partners as we bring them high-spending Cardmembers and new marketing channels to reach these Cardmembers.       Cardmember Special Services and Programs       Throughout the world, our Cardmembers have access to a variety of fee-free and fee-based special services and programs, depending on the type of Cards they have. Examples of these special services and
programs include:       

the Membership Rewards      program             Global Assist      Hotline             Extended Warranty             Car Rental Loss and
Damage Insurance Plan             Purchase Protection Plan             Emergency Card Replacement             Return Protection             Manage Your Card
Account Online             Online Year-End Summary             American Express Roadside Assistance Services             American Express Bill Pay                  Advanced Ticket Sales   
      
        Automatic Flight Insurance             Premium Baggage
Protection             CreditSecure                  Account
Protector             Online Fraud Protection Guarantee             Credit Card Registry             My Free Credit Score and Report             Identity Theft
Assistance             Event Ticket Protection Plan             Platinum Office Program             Online Money Manager             Exclusive Access to
Cardmember Events           
   20   

Table of Contents  

    OPEN       In addition to our U.S. Consumer Card business, through AEBFSB we are also a leading provider of financial services to small businesses (generally, firms with less than 100 employees and/or annual sales
up to $10 million). American Express OPEN ( OPEN ) offers small business owners a wide range of tools, services and savings designed to meet their evolving needs, including:       

charge and credit cards          

rewards on eligible spend and business relevant redemptions          

retail and travel protections such as purchase protection and baggage insurance          

travel services          

3% - 10% or more discounts at select suppliers of travel, business services, and products through OPEN Savings               

expense management reporting          

enhanced online account management capabilities          

resources to help grow and manage a business through the community-driven website, OPEN Forum     .         All
American Express OPEN      Cardmembers are automatically enrolled in OPEN Savings     , a program that offers discounts for all OPEN customers on travel and other major business expenses simply by using
their American Express OPEN Card at participating companies. These savings may be combined with any existing discounts or offers. During 2009, American Express OPEN also launched several new initiatives including:       

a business co-brand with Lowe s          

Accept Pay   SM    an integrated online invoicing and electronic payment solution for small businesses      

OPEN Forum 2.0, with enhancements to our online resource and networking website for small business owners          

OPEN for Government Contracts: Victory in Procurement   SM    (VIP) for Small Business, a national program to help small business owners capitalize on the enormous growth
opportunity provided through government contracts.          Card-Issuing Business Competition       Our proprietary Card business encounters substantial and intense competition in the United States and internationally. As a card issuer, we
compete in the United States with financial institutions (such as Citibank, Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, and Capital One Financial) that issue general-purpose charge and revolving credit cards, and Discover Financial Services, which issues the
Discover Card on the Discover Business Services network. We also encounter limited competition from businesses that issue their own cards or otherwise extend credit to their customers, such as retailers and airline associations, although these cards
are generally accepted only at limited locations. Because of continuing consolidations among banking and financial services companies and credit card portfolio acquisitions by major card issuers, there are now a smaller number of significant
issuers. The largest competing issuers have continued to grow, in several cases by acquiring card portfolios, and also by cross-selling through their retail branch networks, and competition among all issuers remains intense.      Competing card issuers offer a variety of products and services to attract cardholders, including premium cards with enhanced services or
lines of credit, airline frequent flyer program mileage credits, cash rebates and
        
   21   

Table of Contents  

other reward or rebate programs, services for small business owners,  teaser  promotional interest rates for both credit card acquisition and balance transfers, and co-branded
arrangements with partners that offer benefits to cardholders. In recent years we have encountered increasingly intense competition in the small business sector, as competitors have targeted OPEN s customer base and our leadership position in
providing financial services to small businesses.      Most financial institutions that offer demand deposit accounts also issue
debit cards to permit depositors to access their funds. Use of debit cards for point-of-sale purchases has grown as most financial institutions have replaced ATM cards with general-purpose debit cards bearing either the Visa or MasterCard logo. As a
result, the purchase volume and number of transactions made with debit cards in the United States has grown more rapidly than credit and charge card transactions. Debit cards are marketed as replacements for cash and checks, and transactions made
with debit cards are typically for small dollar amounts. The ability to substitute debit cards for credit and charge cards is limited because there is no credit extended and the consumer must have sufficient funds in his or her demand deposit
account to pay for the purchase at the time of the transaction as opposed to charge cards where payment is due at the end of the month or credit cards where payment can be extended over a period of time. We do not currently issue point-of-sale debit
cards for use on the American Express network.      The principal competitive factors that affect the card-issuing business
include:       

features and the quality of the services, including rewards programs, provided to Cardmembers          

the number, spending characteristics and credit performance of Cardmembers          

the quantity and quality of the establishments that accept Cards          

the cost of Cards to Cardmembers                

pricing, payment and other Card account terms and conditions          

the number and quality of other charge and credit cards available to Cardmembers          

the nature and quality of expense management data capture and reporting capability          

the success of targeted marketing and promotional campaigns          

reputation and brand recognition          

the ability of issuers to manage credit and interest rate risk throughout the economic cycle          

the ability of issuers to implement operational and cost efficiencies          

the quality of customer service.         As the payment industry continues to evolve, we are also beginning to face competition from non-traditional players, such as online networks and telecom providers, that leverage new technologies and
customers  existing charge and credit card account and bank relationships to create payment solutions. In addition, the evolution of payment products in emerging markets may be different than it has been in developed markets. Instead of
migrating from cash to checks to plastic, technology and consumer behaviors in these markets may result in the skipping of one or more steps to alternative payment mechanisms such as mobile payments. For a discussion concerning our recent
acquisition of Revolution Money Inc. in the emerging payments area, please see  Enterprise Growth  beginning on page 34 below.       Financing Activities       The Company meets its funding needs through a variety of sources, including cash or
assets that are readily convertible into cash, deposits placed with the Company s U.S. banks, unsecured medium- and long-term notes, asset securitizations, and long-term committed bank borrowing facilities in certain non-U.S. markets.
     American Express Credit Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of TRS, along with its subsidiaries ( Credco ),
acquires the majority of charge Card receivables arising from the use of corporate Cards issued in the
        
   22   

Table of Contents  

United States and consumer and corporate Cards issued in certain currencies outside the United States. Credco finances the acquisition of receivables principally through the sale of medium- and
long-term notes. Centurion Bank and AEBFSB finance their revolving credit receivables and consumer and small business charge card receivables, in part, through the sale of medium-term notes and by offering consumer deposits in the United States.
TRS, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB also typically have funded receivables through asset securitization programs. The cost of funding Cardmember receivables and loans is a major expense of Card operations.      (You can find a discussion of our securitization and other financing activities on pages 40-43 under the caption  Financial
Review,  and Note 7 on pages   87-90 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which portions we incorporate herein by reference.) In addition, please see  Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and economy generally, as
well as political conditions in the United States and elsewhere, may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations  and  Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect the Company s ability
to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital  in  Item 1A Risk Factors  below .        Deposit
Programs       As an additional source of funding, our banking subsidiaries offer deposits to individuals through brokerage
networks as well as directly to consumers. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $26.3 billion in total consumer deposits, a large portion of which was raised through brokerage networks. Our deposit-taking activities compete with other
deposit-taking organizations that source deposits through telephone, internet and other electronic delivery channels, brokerage networks, and/or through branch locations. We compete primarily in the deposit markets on the basis of price and our
brand reputation for safety and service. We seek to obtain the deposits of new customers as well as existing card customers by offering attractive rates and marketing our name brand.      Our ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive interest rates on deposits is also dependent on capital levels of our bank
subsidiaries. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act ( FDIA ) generally prohibits a bank, including our banking subsidiaries, from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing
rate in its normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless (1) it is well-capitalized or (2) it is adequately capitalized and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A bank that is adequately
capitalized generally may not pay an interest rate on any deposit, including direct-to-consumer deposits, in excess of 75 basis points over the national rate published by the FDIC. There are no such restrictions on a bank that is well-capitalized
(provided such bank is not subject to a capital maintenance provision within a written agreement, consent order, order to cease and desist, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive issued by its federal regulator).       Card-Issuing Business Regulation       The charge card and consumer lending businesses are subject to extensive regulation. In the United States, we are subject to a number of federal laws and regulations, including:       

the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (which generally prohibits discrimination in the granting and handling of credit)          

the Fair Credit Reporting Act ( FCRA ), as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act ( FACT Act ) (which, among
other things, regulates use by creditors of consumer credit reports and credit prescreening practices and requires certain disclosures when an application for credit is rejected)          

the Truth in Lending Act ( TILA ) (which, among other things, requires extensive disclosure of the terms upon which credit is granted),
including the amendments to TILA that were adopted through the enactment of the Fair Credit and Charge Card Disclosure Act (which mandates certain disclosures on credit and charge card applications)            
   23   

Table of Contents  

the Fair Credit Billing Act (which, among other things, regulates the manner in which billing inquiries are handled and specifies certain billing
requirements)          

the Electronic Funds Transfer Act (which regulates disclosures and settlement of transactions for electronic funds transfers including those at ATMs)

the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the  CARD Act ) (which prohibits certain acts and practices in
connection with consumer credit card accounts)          

Regulation Z (which was recently amended by the Federal Reserve to extensively revise the open end consumer credit disclosure requirements and to
implement the requirements of the CARD Act)          

federal and state laws and regulations that generally prohibit engaging in unfair and deceptive business practices.         Certain federal privacy-related laws and regulations govern the collection and use of customer information by financial institutions (see
 Corporate   Other  below). Federal legislation also regulates abusive debt collection practices. In addition, a number of states, the European Union, and many foreign countries in which we operate have significant consumer credit
protection and disclosure and privacy-related laws (in certain cases more stringent than the laws of the United States). Bankruptcy and debtor relief laws affect us to the extent that such laws result in amounts owed being classified as delinquent
and/or charged off as uncollectible. As stated above, card issuers and card networks are subject to certain provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act as amended by the Patriot Act, with regard to maintaining effective anti-money laundering programs. For a
discussion of these and other regulations and legislation that impact our business, please see  Supervision   Regulation General  within  Corporate   Other  below.      Centurion Bank, AEBFSB and our other bank entities are subject to a variety of laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions.
Changes in such laws and regulations or in the regulatory application or judicial interpretation thereof could impact the manner in which we conduct our business and the costs of compliance. The regulatory environment in which our Card and lending
businesses operate has become increasingly complex and robust. The U.S. Congress and regulators, as well as various consumer advocacy groups, have continued their focus and attention on certain practices of credit card issuers, such as unfair and
deceptive business practices, increases in APRs, changes in the terms of the account, and the types and levels of fees and financial charges charged by card issuers for, among other things, late payments, returned checks, payments by telephone,
copies of statements and the like. We regularly review and, as appropriate, refine our business practices in light of existing and anticipated developments in laws, regulations and industry trends so we can continue to manage our business prudently
and consistent with regulatory requirements and expectations. For information about the recently enacted CARD Act, please see  Privacy and Fair Credit Reporting  within  Supervision and Regulatory- General  below beginning on
page   42.      In June 2009, we announced that Centurion Bank and AEBFSB entered into separate settlement agreements with
the FDIC and the OTS, respectively. The settlement agreements related to convenience checks used by certain Cardmembers, which were declined as a result of a change in the Cardmember s risk profile. Among other terms of the settlement
agreements, the banks agreed to modify certain practices of their convenience check programs and disclosures and to assist qualifying Cardmembers in the removal of their respective names from any  bad check  registry or similar database
and to refund certain amounts to affected Cardmembers.      In January 2003, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination
Council (the  FFIEC ), an interagency body composed of the principal U.S. federal entities that regulate banks and other financial institutions, issued new guidance to the industry on credit card account management and loss allowance
practices (the  Guidance ). The Guidance covers five areas: (i) credit line management; (ii) over-limit practices; (iii) minimum payment and negative amortization practices; (iv) workout and forbearance practices; and
(v) certain income (fee) recognition and loss allowance practices. The Guidance is generally applicable to all institutions under the supervision of the federal bank regulatory agencies that comprise the FFIEC, although it is primarily the
result of the identification by bank regulators in their examinations of other credit card lenders  practices deemed by them to be inappropriate, particularly, but not exclusively, with regard to subprime lending programs. At present, we do not

24   

Table of Contents  

have any lending programs that target the subprime market. Centurion Bank and AEBFSB evaluate and discuss the Guidance with their respective regulators on an ongoing basis as part of their
regulatory examination processes, and, as a result, may refine their practices from time to time based on regulatory input. The Guidance has not had, nor do we expect it to have, any material impact on our businesses or practices.       American Express Consumer Travel Network USA       The American Express Consumer Travel Network USA provides travel, financial and Cardmember services to consumers through American Express-owned travel service offices, call centers, participating
American Express Representatives (independently owned travel agency locations that operate under the American Express brand) and the Consumer Travel Web site. U.S. Consumer Travel has distinguished itself in the luxury marketplace through its
Platinum Travel Services and Centurion Travel Services. These services provide programs such as the International Airline Program, which offers special discount fares on certain international first- and business-class tickets, and the Fine
Hotels   Resorts program, a luxury hotel program offering room upgrades and value-added amenities. Other premium programs developed by Consumer Travel for Centurion Card and Platinum Card members include the Cruise Privileges Program,
Destinations Vacations Program and the Private Jet Services Program. Consumer Travel also provides other value-added programs such as Gold Card Destinations, a collection of travel benefits exclusively for Gold Card members, and Destination
Family     , a set of valuable benefits and offers across cruise, tour, hotel, and car rental designed for American
Express Card members traveling with families.      In addition, the Consumer Travel business operates a wholesale travel business
in the United States through our Travel Impressions subsidiary. (A wholesaler purchases inventory, such as hotel rooms, from suppliers and then resells the services to the customer at retail prices that the wholesaler determines.) Our wholesale
travel business manages and operates American Express Vacations, which is sold exclusively through the American Express Consumer Travel Network, and distributes travel packages through other retail travel agents and private label brands for third
parties in the United States.      Our Consumer Travel Web site, americanexpress.com/travel, offers a full range of travel rates
and discounts on airfares, hotels, car rentals, last-minute deals, cruises and full vacation packages. The Web site offers unique American Express Cardmember benefits such as an American Express Travel Office locator, Travel Specialist finder tools,
double Membership Rewards points, and travel planning resources and destination content through the  Local Color  portion of the Web site. In addition, Cardmembers are able to Pay With Points by redeeming Membership Rewards points for some
categories of travel through our Web site, as well as through our call centers and Travel Offices. The ability to Pay With Points for travel is unique among our competitors and has been well received by our customers.      Consumer Travel continues to attract agencies to our Representative Network to increase our network footprint in areas where American
Express Cardmembers are concentrated. In 2009, 18 new member agencies joined the Representative Network. Key signings included Altour International, one of the largest travel companies in the United States, and National Travel Center in Charleston,
West Virginia, a leading travel management company in the region. Furthermore, in 2009, the Representative Network launched a series of new services allowing Representatives to better service Cardmembers and customers. These services include Pay
with Points, AgentPort a Tour and Cruise on-line search engine, and the Hotel Luxury Collection a value-added hotel program with over 700 properties worldwide. TRS  travel network of retail travel locations is important in supporting
the American Express brand and providing Cardmember servicing throughout the world.      In 2009, we opened a flagship travel
service office in Cambridge, Massachusetts, which, in addition to providing service from American Express  travel agents, offers visitors new services including a Cardmember lounge, concierge services, unique virtual technology and special
travel offers and events.         
   25   

Table of Contents  

    Consumer Travel Network USA Competition       American Express Consumer Travel competes with a variety of different competitors including traditional  brick and mortar  travel
agents, credit card issuers offering products with significant travel benefits, online travel agents and travel suppliers that distribute their products to consumers directly via the Internet or telephone-based customer service centers. In recent
years we have experienced an increasing presence of  niche  players that are seeking to capitalize on the growth in the luxury travel segment by combining luxury travel offers with concierge-type services.         INTERNATIONAL CARD SERVICES       We issue our charge and credit Cards in numerous countries around the globe. Our geographic scope is widespread and we focus primarily on those markets that we believe offer us the greatest financial
opportunity. For a discussion of Cards issued internationally through our GNS partner relationships, please see the section  Global Network Services  above.      The Company continued to bolster its international proprietary Card business through the launch of numerous new or
enhanced Card products during 2009. These are Cards that we issue, either on our own or, as further described below, as co-brands with partnering institutions. This past year, among other new proprietary products, we announced or launched Cards with
SAS Scandinavian Airlines in Sweden, All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd. in Japan and The Express Rewards Credit Card   SM 
   in the United Kingdom. We offer many of the same programs and services in our international proprietary Card-issuing business as we do in our U.S. proprietary issuing business. For example,
as in the United States, we offer various flexible payment options similar to our Sign   Travel     
program and our Extended Payment Option to Cardmembers in several international markets.      Also, as in the United States, we
issue Cards internationally under distribution agreements with banks. Another example of our distribution partnerships is affinity cards with fraternal, professional, educational and other organizations. For instance, we have been successful in
penetrating the affinity card segment in Australia, where we issue Cards with the majority of the largest professional associations in that country. In Australia, affinity cards are a substantial part of our total revolving portfolio and contribute
to our proprietary consumer lending activities.      As in the United States, rewards programs are a strong driver of Cardmember
spending in the international consumer business. We have more than 1,500 redemption partners across our international business, with an average of approximately 84 partners in each country; approximately 30% of these partners are in the travel
industry. Cardmembers can redeem their points with more than 40 airlines and over 175 hotels. Our redemption options include travel, retail merchandise, entertainment, shopping and recreation gift certificates, experiences, financial services and
charity rewards. In 2009, we continued to enhance our rewards programs in several markets, offering more flexible choices that enable Cardmembers to redeem Membership Rewards points more quickly.      Membership Travel Services International provides premium travel and concierge services to our Platinum and Centurion Customers, through 24
exclusively dedicated call centers in 23 international countries. Additionally, Membership Travel Services operates 16 proprietary Travel Service Offices in Mexico, Italy and Argentina to provide all Cardmembers with travel and general card service
assistance. We also provide foreign exchange services in Mexico and Italy. We have taken steps to enhance our capabilities to sell exclusively negotiated benefits and luxury travel packages with preferred suppliers through the Fine Hotels and
Resorts Program, American Express Vacations and American Express s International Airline Program. Our International Airline Program (IAP), which is exclusively available to Platinum Card and Centurion Card members, allows these Card members to
receive complimentary companion tickets or a class upgrade when flying on qualifying international flights in business or first class.      We expanded the flexibility of payment for travel and concierge services by allowing International Consumer Cardmembers to use their Membership Rewards points to pay for their travel purchases in 14 international markets.         
   26   

Table of Contents  

    International Proprietary Consumer Card Competition       Compared to the United States, consumers outside the United States use general-purpose charge and credit cards for a smaller percentage of
their total payments, with some large emerging market countries just beginning to transition to card usage in any meaningful way. Although our geographic scope is widespread, we generally do not have significant share in the markets in which we
operate outside the United States. Internationally, our proprietary Card-issuing business is subject to competition from multinational banks, such as Citibank, HSBC and Banco Santander, as well as many local banks and financial institutions.
Globally, we view Citibank and HSBC as our strongest competitors, as they currently offer card products in a large number of markets.       International Proprietary Consumer Card Regulation       As discussed elsewhere in this Report, regulators in
2009 continued to introduce a variety of proposed reforms to the payments landscape in a number of our key international markets, some of which have already been adopted. We expect this activity to continue in 2010. Regulators continue to consider
developments in the United States and other jurisdictions to help inform and guide their policy. While the nature of the proposals vary, a number of markets have been focused on pricing, disclosure and other card practices and we expect this to
continue in 2010.      As a consequence, international markets may consider and implement additional card practice regulation in
2010. As we move forward we continue to evaluate our business planning in light of changing market circumstances and the evolving political, economic, regulatory and media environment.         GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES       In our Global Commercial Services ( GCS ) segment, we provide expense management services to companies and organizations worldwide through Global Commercial Card and Global Travel Services. American Express is a leading global
issuer of commercial cards and is also a leading global travel management company for corporations and businesses. During 2009, we added or retained several major Commercial Card clients in the United States and internationally including Affiliated
Computer Services, Inc., International Business Machines Corporation, PepsiCo, Inc., Emerson Electric Co., Stryker, Tri-Pen Management Corporation and UPS. Additionally, in 2009, we added or retained several American Express Business Travel clients
in the United States and internationally, including International Business Machines Corporation, Rio Tinto Limited, CBS Corporation, Zurich Insurance Company Ltd, and The Nielsen Company.      GCS offers a number of products and services, which include:       

A comprehensive offering of Corporate Card Programs, such as:          

Corporate Cards, issued to individuals through a corporate account established by their employer and designed primarily for travel and entertainment
( T E ) spending          

Corporate Meeting Cards, which are provided primarily to corporate meeting planners as a tool to help companies control their meeting and event
expenses          

Business Travel Accounts, centrally billed accounts that companies can use to charge their employees  travel expenses.

A suite of Business-to-Business Payment Solutions, including:          

Corporate Purchasing Card, an account established by corporations to pay for everyday business expenses such as office and computer supplies

Payment, which provides fast and efficient payment for large-ticket purchases and permits the processing of large transactions with effective fraud
controls          

Buyer Initiated Payment, an electronic solution for companies looking to automate their payment processes.            
   27   

Table of Contents  

American Express Business Travel, which helps businesses manage and optimize their travel expenses through a variety of travel-related products,
services and solutions.          Global Commercial Card       Global Commercial Card ( GCC ) offers a range of expense management solutions to companies worldwide through
our Corporate Card Programs and our Business-to-Business Payment Solutions. The American Express      Corporate Card
is a charge card that individuals may obtain through a corporate account established by their employer for business purposes. Through our Corporate Card Program, companies can manage their travel, entertainment and purchasing expenses and improve
negotiating leverage with suppliers, among other benefits. We use our direct relationships with merchants to offer Corporate Card clients superior data about company spending, as well as streamlined dispute resolution. We issue local currency
Corporate Cards in 41 countries and international dollar/euro Corporate Cards in 84 countries. In addition, we provide Corporate Cards issued through our GNS partner relationships for presence in 31 additional countries.      With the heightened focus on cost containment, many companies increasingly are interested in our Corporate Meeting Card program, which helps
businesses control meeting-related expenses. It allows clients to capture meeting spending, to simplify the payment process, and to gain access to data to support negotiations with suppliers.      We also offer a series of Business-to-Business Payment Solutions to help companies manage non-T E (or B2B) spending. This type of
spending by corporations helps to diversify our spend mix beyond travel and entertainment. These solutions provide a variety of benefits to companies including cost savings, process efficiency, improved cash flow and increased visibility, control
and security. The Corporate Purchasing Card helps large corporations and mid-sized companies manage their everyday spending. The Corporate Purchasing Card is used to pay for everyday goods and business expenses, such as office supplies, industrial
supplies and business equipment in 22 markets around the world.      vPayment allows corporate customers to make payments with
enhanced controls, data capture and reconciliation capabilities. vPayment offers companies single-use virtual account numbers. Charges are authorized for a specified amount during a specified amount of time. The solution automates reconciliation;
eliminates manual check requests; interfaces easily with enterprise resource planning (ERP), procurement and accounts payable systems; and can be used at one or more stages of the procurement-to-payables process.      Buyer Initiated Payment allows American Express to pay B2B suppliers electronically on behalf of our clients, permitting them to manage
payments, extend their own days payable outstanding or float, and increase their cash on hand. Buyer Initiated Payment has been offered first to clients in the United States and will be offered in other markets around the world in 2011. This
solution is best suited for mid- to large-sized companies that want to transition rapidly to electronic payments, reduce supplier inquiries, convert paper to electronic payments, and optimize cash flow.      In addition to providing expense management services to large and global corporations, GCC markets Commercial Card programs to middle-market
companies (defined in the United States as firms with annual revenues of $10 million to $1 billion worldwide). GCC is focused on continuing to expand its business with mid-sized companies, which represent significant growth opportunities. Businesses
of this size often do not have a Commercial Card program. However, once enrolled in a Commercial Card program, mid-sized companies, which usually do not have well-defined purchasing programs, typically put a significant portion of their business
spending (both T E and non-T E, such as office supplies) on the Commercial Card because they can gain control, savings and employee benefits.      American Express also partners with many other companies around the world to offer a number of co-brand corporate Cards in various markets. These products, typically suited for mid-sized companies,
provide savings on everyday business spending and /or air travel. To date, American Express has 15 co-brand partnerships
        
   28   

Table of Contents  

worldwide. These include the two new co-brand corporate cards we added in 2009: the SAS American Express Corporate Card in Denmark, Norway and Sweden and the American Express BP Corporate Card in
Australia, a unique card program that allows eligible clients to achieve savings and benefits on fuel expenses and on Qantas air travel. GCC offers the Savings at Work      Program to mid-sized companies in the United States, as well as similar programs globally, which provides companies with cash back and/or discounted pricing on
everyday business products and services, such as car rentals, hotels, restaurants and courier services. Corporate Cardmembers can also take advantage of our Membership Rewards program to redeem points for air travel and hotel stays, as well as
shopping, home, and recreation items. Membership Rewards is a powerful tool for encouraging Card usage and corporate policy compliance leading to greater control and savings.      GCC offers American Express @ Work     , a secure, web-based suite of online tools that enables clients to manage their Corporate Card, Corporate Purchasing Card, BTA and Corporate Meeting Card programs on
a 24/7 basis through a single user interface. American Express @ Work provides authorized client representatives online access to global management information to help them gain visibility into their spending patterns, as well as the ability to make
changes to their program or Commercial Card accounts. American Express @ Work also feeds data to automated expense reporting solutions and includes reconciliation tools that together allow clients to enforce program compliance and effectively
integrate spending information with their internal accounting systems. This suite of online tools assists companies in managing expenses more efficiently than offline alternatives, thereby decreasing both the direct and indirect costs associated
with maintaining accounts and ensuring program compliance.       Global Commercial Card Competition       In the current economic environment, the interest in expense management tools is particularly strong, as clients aim to capture data, analyze
trends and make decisions that enhance their cash flow and profitability. Both Visa and MasterCard continue to support card issuers such as U.S. Bank, JPMorgan Chase, and Citibank to build and support data collection and reporting necessary to
satisfy customer requirements. Commercial card issuers have increasingly acquired niche technology offerings to enhance data capture capabilities and reporting functionality. Global servicing, data quality, technological functionality and
simplicity, and customer experience are among the key competitive factors in the commercial card business.       Global Commercial
Card Regulation       The Global Commercial Card business, which engages in the extension of commercial credit, is subject
to more limited regulation than our consumer lending business. In the United States, we are subject to certain of the federal and state laws applicable to our consumer lending business, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the FCRA (as
amended by the FACT Act), as well laws that generally prohibit engaging in unfair and deceptive business practices. (For a discussion of this legislation, see  Card-Issuing Business Regulation .) We are also subject to certain state
laws that regulate fees and charges on our products. Additionally, as a global business, we are subject to U.S. state data security and breach notification laws and regulations, as well as significant data protection laws in the European Union and
many foreign countries in which we operate. We are also subject to bankruptcy and debtor relief laws that can affect our ability to collect amounts owed to us. As discussed above, along with the rest of our business, we are subject to certain
provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act as amended by the Patriot Act, with regard to maintaining effective anti-money laundering programs. (For a discussion of this legislation and its effect on our business, see  Supervision  
Regulation General  within  Corporate   Other  below.)       Global Travel Services       Global Travel Services ( GTS ) consists of American Express Business Travel and Global Foreign Exchange Services. American Express
Business Travel ( Business Travel ) provides globally integrated solutions, both online and offline, to help organizations manage and optimize their travel investments and service
        
   29   

Table of Contents  

their traveling employees. These solutions include travel reservation advice and transaction processing through a global network that is available 24 hours per day; travel expense management
policy consultation; meeting management, supplier negotiation and consultation; advisory services; management information reporting, data analysis and benchmarking; and group and incentive travel services.      In 2009, we announced, with Maritz Travel, the launch of MaXvantage   SM   , an alliance to provide end-to-end strategic meetings management services to support a business 
entire meeting, event and incentive travel portfolio. We have also launched the CXO Planning Dashboard, which is designed to help senior-level executives make informed, targeted decisions that support revenue generating activities within cost
reduction parameters. We also introduced new online initiatives from Business Travel designed to provide companies with enhanced services and increased efficiencies. We continue to update our economic model and invest in new products, services and
technologies to enhance the value that we deliver to our customers and address ongoing travel industry challenges and opportunities. For example, we have substantially reduced our reliance on commission revenues from suppliers (such as airlines or
hotels), and now generate revenues primarily from customers who pay for the services that we provide.      These services include solutions designed to provide our clients with savings, control, services and traveler care. For example, we offer customers savings and benefits through the Preferred Extra   SM    supplier value programs and advisory services, which provide
preferred supplier rates and consulting solutions in all areas of travel and entertainment expense management.      In 2009, we
further developed our comprehensive cost-saving travel management offerings, including products such as Recession-Proof Your Travel Investment, a proprietary methodology that allows us to make travel program recommendations to maximize returns. We
also established virtual meetings eXpert, an online / offline solution that aggregates both public and private telepresence inventory, makes it accessible to companies so they have a broader pool of virtual meeting options, and delivers the
methodology and intelligence necessary to guide travelers to make informed decisions about traveling and potential alternatives. Additionally, we established eXpert insights, a new line that enables clients to benefit from the collective knowledge
of numerous consultants and years of travel management experience, as well as gain access to our data repository, through a series of in-depth research reports. We also launched small meetings eXpert, a new online meetings marketplace that reinvents
the way users plan and book meetings with fewer than 50 attendees and delivers real-time connection to browse content, compare rates and book guest rooms, meeting space, catering and audio visual equipment. Finally, we grew
www.businesstravelconneXion.com, our online community for business travel, to nearly 8,000 members.      Business Travel has moved
many of its business processes and customer servicing online. In the United States, more than 50% of all Business Travel transactions continue to be processed online. In addition, the volume of online transactions is growing in other markets around
the world.      Global Foreign Exchange Services ( GFES ) consists of retail and wholesale foreign exchange services and
FX International Payments. Other than in Australia and Singapore, where we operate foreign exchange offices in city locations, we concentrate our retail foreign exchange business in key international airports, for example at London Heathrow in the
United Kingdom, Barajas Madrid in Spain and Changi Airport in Singapore. For corporate clients, our FX International Payments online product allows companies and financial institutions to make cross-border payments in major foreign currencies at
competitive exchange rates.      In 2009, we secured agreements to operate on an exclusive basis at Edinburgh airport in the
United Kingdom. We also launched in 2009 our FX International Payments business in New Zealand and increased the global portfolio of active customers to over 10,000 by signing in excess of 2,500 new corporate clients, including 37 financial
institutions in the United States.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

    Global Travel Services Competition       Business Travel continues to face intense competition in the United States and internationally from numerous traditional and online travel
management companies, as well as from direct sales by airlines and other travel suppliers. Competition among travel management companies is mainly based on price, service, value creation, convenience, global capabilities and proximity to the
customer. Competition also comes from corporate customers themselves, as some companies have become accredited as in-house corporate travel agents.      For many years, travel management companies have faced pressure on revenues from airlines, as most carriers have stopped paying  base  commissions to travel agents for tickets sold and
significantly reduced other forms of travel agent compensation. Carriers have also increased the number of transactions they book directly through their Web sites and other means. These trends have reduced the revenue opportunities for travel
management companies because they do not receive distribution revenue from directly booked transactions. In recent years, the airline industry has undergone bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events including expanded
grants of antitrust immunity to airline alliances. This immunity enables airlines to closely coordinate their international operations and to launch highly integrated joint ventures in transatlantic and other markets. These types of structural
changes may result in additional challenges to travel management companies. For additional information concerning these issues, please see  Risk Factors We have agreements with business partners in a variety of industries, including the
airline industry, that represent a significant portion of our business  on page   78 below.      Overall, intense
competition among travel management companies, the ongoing trends of increasing direct sales by airlines, the rise of low-cost carriers and ongoing reductions in or elimination of airline commissions and fees, continue to put pressure on revenue for
travel agents.      Over the last few years we have evolved our business model allowing us to charge customers for the services we
provide and the value we create, and restructured our expense base through the rationalization of our call center locations and the transitioning of many of our services online. This restructuring, as well as our global presence, has helped us to
balance these revenue pressures. We continue to look for new ways to enhance the value we deliver for our customers both online and offline. Additionally, we are focusing on developing new and innovative products, services and technologies, which
enhance the value we deliver to our customers and suppliers and address ongoing travel industry challenges and opportunities.         CORPORATE   OTHER       Corporate   Other consists of corporate
functions and auxiliary businesses, including the Company s publishing business, Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products, as well as other company operations. We also discuss information relevant to the Company as a whole in this section.
      Global Prepaid       We have been in the business of issuing and selling travelers checks since 1891. We sell the American Express      Travelers Cheque ( Travelers Cheque  or  Cheque ) as a safe and convenient alternative to cash. Travelers Cheques are currently available in U.S.
dollars and four foreign currencies, including Euros. We also issue and sell other forms of paper travelers checks, including American Express      Gift Cheques, which are available in U.S. and Canadian dollars. Sales of Travelers Cheques continued to decline in 2009.      In addition to travelers checks, Global Prepaid also offers prepaid gift cards in the United States and Canada,
including the American Express      Gift Card, which can be used in the United States and Canada at merchants that
accept American Express Cards. On September 30, 2009, American Express announced that it had eliminated all monthly fees on its gift cards, becoming the first  open system  gift card (i.e., a gift card that can be used at multiple
unaffiliated sellers of goods or services) to do so. Sales of gift cards continued to rise in
        
   31   

Table of Contents  

2009, reflecting the growing popularity of these products and our efforts to increase buying convenience for customers. Global Prepaid also offers a variety of incentive prepaid cards, such as
prepaid rebate and reward card products.      We sell American Express prepaid products through a variety of channels, including
sales directly to customers via phone and the Internet. Travelers Cheques and Gift Cheques are sold primarily through a broad network of selling outlets worldwide, including American Express travel offices, independent travel agents and third-party
financial institutions. Gift cards are primarily sold through travel offices and retail establishments, including supermarkets and drug stores.      During 2009, we solidified our position as the largest gift card issuer in the United States by signing or renewing distribution deals with a number of large partners, including Simon Malls and General
Growth Properties, and we continue to expand the network of retail locations at which our gift card products are sold.       Global
Prepaid Competition       Travelers Cheques compete with a wide variety of financial payment products including cash,
foreign currency, checks, other brands of travelers checks, debit, prepaid and ATM cards and, in some circumstances, other payment cards. Our prepaid cards compete with the same payment methods, and in particular, with cash, checks and other
open-system and store-specific gift cards.      The principal competitive factors affecting the travelers check and prepaid card
industry are:       

the number and location of merchants willing to accept the form of payment          

the availability to the consumer of other forms of payment          

the amount of fees charged to the consumer          

the compensation paid to, and frequency of settlement by, selling outlets          

the accessibility of sales and refunds for the products          

the success of marketing and promotional campaigns          

the ability to service the customer satisfactorily, including for lost or stolen instruments.          Global Prepaid Regulation       As an issuer of travelers checks, we are regulated in the United States under the  money transmitter  or  sale of check  laws in effect in most states. These laws require travelers check (and, where applicable, prepaid
card) issuers to obtain licenses, to meet certain safety and soundness criteria, to hold outstanding proceeds of sale in highly rated and secure investments, and to provide detailed reports. We invest the proceeds from sales of our Travelers Cheques
and prepaid cards in accordance with applicable law, predominantly in highly rated debt securities consisting primarily of intermediate- and long-term federal, state and municipal obligations. Many states examine licensees annually. In addition,
federal anti-money laundering regulations require, among other things, the registration of traveler check issuers as  Money Service Businesses  and compliance with anti-money laundering recordkeeping and reporting requirements by issuers
and selling outlets. At this time, stored value issuers and redeemers, while considered to be  Money Service Businesses,  are not required to register under these regulations. Outside the United States, there are varying licensing and
anti-money laundering requirements, including some that are similar to those in the United States.      Travelers check issuers
are required by the laws of many states to comply with state unclaimed and abandoned property laws under which such issuers must pay to states the face amount of any travelers check that is uncashed or unredeemed after 15 years. The abandoned
property laws of numerous states also apply to prepaid cards in a variety of ways.         
   32   

Table of Contents  

   In May 2009, the CARD Act amended provisions of the Electronic Funds Transfer Act to impose
new restrictions on the terms of gift cards and certain other prepaid cards, including restrictions on the fees that may be charged, expiration dates, and consumer disclosures. Under the CARD Act, the Federal Reserve must promulgate regulations to
implements its gift card provisions, which regulations will become effective in August 2010. In addition, a number of states have also enacted laws pertaining to the issuance and the sale of gift cards. We continue to monitor state legislative
activity restricting the terms of gift cards. In certain states where regulation continues to restrict fees and has made it unprofitable for us to offer gift cards, we have limited or withdrawn from selling these cards.       American Express Publishing       Through American Express Publishing, we publish luxury lifestyle magazines such as Travel + Leisure     , Food   Wine      and
Departures     ; travel resources such as SkyGuide     ; business resources such as the American Express Appointment Book and SkyGuide Executive Travel, a business traveler supplement; a variety of general interest,
cooking, travel, wine, financial and time management books; branded membership services; a growing roster of international magazine editions; as well as directly sold and licensed products. American Express Publishing also has a custom publishing
group and is expanding its service-driven Web sites such as: travelandleisure.com, foodandwine.com, departures.com, tlgolf.com, tlfamily.com and eskyguide.com. We have an agreement with Time Inc. under which it manages our publishing business, and
we share profits relating to this business.       Global Services Group       As part of the organizational changes announced in October 2009, management created a new Global Services organization to heighten the
company s focus on customer service and to ensure all business operations are managed as effectively and efficiently as possible. We are organizing support functions by process rather than business unit, which the Company expects will
streamline costs, reduce duplication of work, better integrate skills and expertise, and improve customer service.      Global
Services is comprised principally of the following divisions:       World Service       We have consolidated our U.S. and International service organizations for the first time. Our customer service units have worked over a
number of years to ensure outstanding service to customers, while at the same time improving operating margins. As mentioned earlier in this Report, J.D. Power and Associates released its annual nationwide credit card satisfaction study and ranked
American Express highest in overall satisfaction among 21 of the largest card issuers in the United States for the third consecutive year.       Global Business Services       The Global Business Services division is
principally comprised of procurement, real estate, human resources processing and financial processing. By consolidating these internal process-driven activities, we will seek to simplify and standardize processes for increased quality, efficiency
and cost savings.       Corporate Development       The Corporate Development Group is responsible for supporting AXP growth and profitability by working with our business units to identify and execute on acquisitions, investments, joint ventures,
partnerships and divestitures.         
   33   

Table of Contents  

    Service and Technology Infrastructure       We continue to make significant investments, both in the United States and internationally, in our Card systems and infrastructure to allow
faster introduction and greater customization of products. We also are using technology to develop and improve our service capabilities to continue to deliver a high quality customer experience. For example, we maintain a service delivery platform
that our employees use in the Card business to support a variety of customer servicing and account management activities such as account maintenance, updating of Cardmember information, the addition of new Cards to an account and resolving customer
satisfaction issues. In international markets, we are enhancing our global platforms and capabilities, such as in revolving credit.      We continue to leverage the Internet to lower costs, improve service quality and enhance our business model. During 2009, we continued to broaden our focus to use the Internet to drive revenue and build our brand, while continuing to
migrate transaction volumes at lower costs. We also continue to have more online customer service interactions in the United States than we do by telephone or in person.      As of year-end, customers had enrolled approximately 26 million Cards globally in our  Manage Your Card Account  service. This service enables Cardmembers to review and pay their American
Express bills electronically, view and service their Membership Rewards program accounts and conduct various other functions quickly and securely online. We now have an online presence in 23 markets around the world, including the United Kingdom,
Australia, Italy, France, Mexico and Japan.      We continue to devote substantial resources to our technology platform to ensure
the highest level of data integrity, security and privacy. In 2006, we and several other payment card networks formed PCI SSC, an independent standards-setting organization to manage the evolution of technical data security standards. In 2009, we
became an owner-member of EMVCo, the standards body that manages, maintains, and enhances specifications for chip-based payment cards and acceptance devices, including point-of-sale terminals. (For a discussion of these organizations, see the
 Global Merchant Services  section above.)      In 2002, we outsourced most of our technology infrastructure management
and support to IBM. The various arrangements covered under our agreement with IBM range in term from 8 to 12 years, with certain rights to extend. This arrangement currently enables us to benefit from IBM s expertise while lowering our
information technology costs. IBM is currently responsible for managing most of our day-to-day technology infrastructure functions, including most of our mainframe and midrange computing systems; Web hosting; database administration; and a portion
of our help desk services function. We also outsource other technology infrastructure functions to other third-party service providers. Our internal IT organization continues to retain the Company s key technology competencies, including
information technology strategy, information security, managing strategic relationships with technologies  partners, data center operations, developing and maintaining applications and databases and managing the technology portfolios of our
businesses.       Enterprise Growth       As part of the organizational changes, we also are creating a new Enterprise Growth group to leverage existing assets, generate incremental fee revenue and drive our entry into new payment areas and
related businesses. The objective for the Enterprise Growth organization is to develop opportunities for growth that transcend individual businesses that take advantage of some of the new technological trends that are emerging across the payments
industry.      Consistent with our focus on new payments areas, on January 15, 2010, we purchased Revolution Money Inc., a
provider of secure person-to-person payment services through an internet based platform, for approximately $300 million. Revolution Money s online person-to-person payment accounts are FDIC insured and suited for social and instant messaging
networks. Additionally, Revolution Money offers the RevolutionCard, a general-use PIN-based card with enhanced security; no name or account number appears on
        
   34   

Table of Contents  

the card and transactions are processed using PIN numbers. We believe Revolution Money s assets and expertise complement not only our existing payments and processing capabilities, but also
provide us with innovative technology and expertise that can help extend our leadership beyond the traditional payments arena.       Fee
Services       Our existing businesses, as well as our Enterprise Growth Group, are tasked with developing new fee-generating
products and services by leveraging our Blue Box resources. Two recently introduced examples of these services from our existing businesses in other segments include:       

Business Insights, a new business that incorporates analytics and consulting to assist merchants with identifying new trends, enabling product
innovation, expanding geographically, and improving the effectiveness of their marketing          

LoyaltyEdge   SM   , a new business line that will assist partners with developing, operating, and improving their own loyalty programs,
which includes Delta Airlines as the first customer.          Supervision and Regulation General        Overview       American Express Company and TRS are bank holding companies under the BHC Act and have elected to be treated as financial holding companies under the BHC Act. As a bank holding company under the BHC Act, the Company is subject to
supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve. Under the system of  functional regulation  established under the BHC Act, the Federal Reserve supervises the Company, including all of its nonbank subsidiaries, as an  umbrella
regulator  of the consolidated organization and generally defers to the primary U.S. regulators of the Company s U.S. depository institution subsidiaries, as applicable, and to the other U.S. regulators of the Company s U.S.
non-depository institution subsidiaries that regulate certain activities of those subsidiaries, such as insurance companies regulated by state insurance authorities.      Many aspects of our business are also subject to rigorous regulation by other U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by non-U.S. government agencies or regulatory bodies
and securities exchanges. Certain of our public disclosure, internal control environment and corporate governance principles are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( Sarbanes-Oxley ) and related regulations and rules of the SEC and
the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. As a global financial institution, to the extent that different regulatory systems impose overlapping or inconsistent requirements on the conduct of our business, we face complexity and additional costs in our
compliance efforts.      New laws or regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations (including changes in interpretation
or enforcement) could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. More specifically, severe market disruptions in 2008 have led to numerous proposals in the United States and internationally for potentially
significant changes in the regulation of the financial services industry. Please see  Risk Factors Proposed legislative and regulatory reforms could, if enacted or adopted, result in our business becoming subject to significant and
extensive additional regulations, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition  on pages 70-71 for a further discussion of some of these proposals and their potential impact on our results of operations and
financial condition.       Banking Regulation       Federal and state banking laws, regulations and policies extensively regulate the Company, TRS, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, including prescribing standards relating to capital, earnings, liquidity,
dividends, the repurchase or redemption of shares, loans or extension of credit to affiliates and insiders, internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, asset growth and impaired assets.
Such laws and regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, other customers and the federal deposit insurance funds, as well as to minimize systemic risk, and not for the protection of holders of our
        
   35   

Table of Contents  

securities. Bank regulatory agencies have broad examination and enforcement power over bank holding companies and their subsidiaries, including the power to impose substantial fines, limit
dividends, restrict operations and acquisitions and require divestitures. Bank holding companies and banks, as well as subsidiaries of both, are prohibited by law from engaging in practices that the relevant regulatory authority deems unsafe or
unsound.       Financial Holding Company Status and Activities       The BHC Act limits the nonbanking activities of bank holding companies. Unless a bank holding company has qualified as a  financial
holding company,  its nonbanking activities are restricted to those  so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto.  An eligible bank holding company may elect to be a financial holding company, which is authorized
to engage in a broader range of financial activities. A financial holding company may engage in any activity that has been determined by rule or order to be financial in nature, incidental to such financial activity, or (with prior Federal Reserve
approval) complementary to a financial activity and that does not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of a depository institution or to the financial system generally. American Express engages in various activities permissible only
for a bank holding company that has elected to be treated as a financial holding company, including in particular providing travel agency services, acting as a finder and certain insurance underwriting and agency services.      For a bank holding company to be eligible for financial holding company status, all of its subsidiary U.S. depository institutions must be
 well capitalized  and  well managed  and have received at least a satisfactory rating on its most recent Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the  CRA ) review. If, after becoming a financial holding company and
undertaking activities in reliance on such qualification, the company fails to continue to meet applicable capital or managerial standards for financial holding company status, the company must enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to
comply with applicable capital and managerial standards. Moreover, until all relevant conditions are satisfied, the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates may not, without the Federal Reserve s prior approval, commence any additional
activities, or acquire control or shares of any company, in reliance on the Company s status as a financial holding company, and the Company must comply with any additional limitations that the Federal Reserve imposes. If the company does not
return to compliance within 180 days, the Federal Reserve may order the company to divest its subsidiary U.S. depository institutions or the company may discontinue or divest investments in companies engaged in activities permissible only for a bank
holding company that has elected to be treated as a financial holding company. If any subsidiary U.S. depository institution fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the CRA, American Express would be subject to substantially the same
restrictions on activities and acquisitions as set forth above.       Activities and Acquisitions       The BHC Act requires a bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: (1) it may acquire direct or
indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank or savings and loan association, if after such acquisition, the bank holding company will directly or indirectly own or control more than 5% of any class of the voting securities of the
institution; (2) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan association; or (3) it may merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company.
     The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, as amended (the  Interstate Banking Act ),
generally permits bank holding companies to acquire banks in any state, and preempts all state laws restricting the ownership by a bank holding company of banks in more than one state. The Interstate Banking Act also permits (1) a bank to merge
with an out-of-state bank and convert any offices into branches of the resulting bank if both states have not opted out of interstate branching, (2) a bank to acquire branches from an out-of-state bank if the law of the state where the branches
are located permits the interstate branch acquisition and (3) banks to establish and operate  de novo  interstate branches whenever the host state opts-in to  de novo  branching. Bank holding companies and banks seeking to engage in
transactions authorized by the Interstate Banking Act must be adequately capitalized and managed.         
   36   

Table of Contents  

   The Federal Reserve must approve certain additional capital contributions to an existing
non-U.S. investment and certain direct and indirect acquisitions by the Company of an interest in a non-U.S. company, including in a foreign bank, as well as the establishment by Centurion Bank of foreign branches in certain circumstances.
     The Change in Bank Control Act prohibits a person, entity, or group of persons or entities acting in concert, from acquiring
 control  of a bank holding company such as the Company unless the Federal Reserve has been given prior notice and has not objected to the transaction. Under Federal Reserve regulations, the acquisition of 10% or more of a class of voting
stock of the Company would create a rebuttable presumption of acquisition of control of the Company under certain circumstances.      In addition, any company is required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve under the BHC Act before acquiring control of the Company, which, among other things, includes the acquisition of ownership of or control over 25% or more of
any class of voting securities of the Company or the power to exercise a  controlling influence  over the Company. In the case of an acquirer that is a bank or bank holding company, the BHC Act requires approval of the Federal Reserve for
the acquisition of ownership or control of any voting securities of the Company, if the acquisition results in the bank or bank holding company controlling more than 5% of the outstanding shares of any class of voting securities of the Company.
      Source of Strength       Under Federal Reserve policy, the Company is expected to act as a source of strength to Centurion Bank and to commit capital and financial resources to support it. Such support may be required by the
Federal Reserve at times when, absent Federal Reserve policy, we otherwise might determine not to provide it. Capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other
indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the event of a bank holding company s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulator to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy
trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.       Capital Adequacy       The Company, TRS, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are required to comply with the applicable capital adequacy standards established by the federal
banking regulators. There are two risk-based measures of capital adequacy for bank holding companies that have been promulgated by the Federal Reserve, as well as a leverage measure.      The Company currently calculates its risk-based capital ratios under guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve, based on the 1998 Capital
Accord ( Basel I ) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the  Basel Committee ). The risk-based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market
risk profiles among banks and financial holding companies, to account for off-balance-sheet exposure, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off-balance-sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with
appropriate weights. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets and off-balance-sheet items.      Under Basel I, as adopted by the applicable federal bank regulatory agencies, the minimum guideline for the ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance-sheet items, such
as standby letters of credit) is 8%. At least half of the total capital must be composed of Tier 1 capital, which includes common equity, undivided profits, minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries (including, for bank
holding companies but not banks, trust preferred securities), non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock and for bank holding companies (but not banks) a limited amount of cumulative perpetual preferred stock, less goodwill and certain other
intangible assets. Tier 2 capital may consist of, among other things, qualifying subordinated debt, mandatorily convertible debt securities, other preferred stock and trust preferred securities and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses.
Non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, trust preferred securities and other so-called  restricted core capital elements  are generally limited to 25% of Tier 1 capital. The minimum guideline for the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk
weighted assets is 4%.         
   37   

Table of Contents  

   In June 2004, the Basel Committee published new international guidelines for determining
regulatory capital ( Basel II ). In December 2007, the U.S. bank regulatory agencies jointly adopted a final rule based on Basel II. The Company, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are required now to transition to the Basel II-based guidelines,
absent a waiver. The final rule provides for a series of three transitional periods during which the Company must calculate its risk-based capital ratios under both the Basel I-based guidelines and the new Basel II-based guidelines, with the minimum
capital requirements during the transitional periods being the greater of the required capital as calculated under the final rule and a designated percentage of required capital as calculated under Basel I. Prior to beginning the three transitional
periods, we must complete a satisfactory parallel-run period of no less than four consecutive calendar quarters during which we will be required to confidentially report regulatory capital under both the Basel I and Basel II regulations. Under the
final rule, we must adopt a board of directors-approved implementation plan for Basel II and begin the first transitional period for capital calculation under the final rule no later than January 1, 2013, unless this time is extended by the
Federal Reserve.      In addition, the Federal Reserve has established minimum leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding
companies. These guidelines provide for a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to average total assets, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets (the  Leverage Ratio ), of 3% for bank holding companies that meet certain specified
criteria, including having the highest regulatory rating. All other bank holding companies generally are required to maintain a Leverage Ratio of at least 4%. The guidelines also provide that bank holding companies experiencing internal growth or
making acquisitions will be expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels without significant reliance on intangible assets. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it will consider a
 tangible Tier 1 capital leverage ratio  (deducting all intangibles) and other indicators of capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities.      As a supervisory matter, federal bank regulatory agencies expect most bank holding companies, and in particular larger bank holding
companies such as the Company, to maintain regulatory capital ratios that, at a minimum, qualify a bank holding company and its depository institution subsidiaries as  well capitalized.  The required ratios to qualify as well capitalized
are a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6% and a leverage ratio of at least 5%. Following the recent financial crisis, the federal bank regulatory agencies have encouraged larger bank
holding companies to maintain capital ratios appreciably above even the well-capitalized standard. Moreover, the Federal Reserve is focusing more on the regulatory requirement that common equity be the  predominant  element of Tier 1
capital. In addition, the Federal Reserve has assessed the capital adequacy of the country s 19 largest bank holding companies, including the Company, under a so-called  stress test  relating primarily to loan quality.      For information regarding our capital ratios, please see  Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity  on pages   39-40 of
our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.       Proposed Capital and
Liquidity Requirements       In December 2009, the Basel Committee issued two consultative documents proposing reforms to bank
capital and liquidity regulation. The Basel Committee s capital proposals would significantly revise the definitions of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Among other things, they would: (i) re-emphasize that common equity is the
 predominant  component of Tier 1 capital by (a) adding a minimum common equity to risk-weighted assets ratio, with the ratio itself to be determined based on the outcome of an impact study that the Basel Committee is conducting, and
(b) requiring that goodwill, general intangibles and certain other items that currently must be deducted from Tier 1 capital instead be deducted from common equity as a component of Tier 1 capital; (ii) disqualify innovative capital
instruments   including U.S.-style trust preferred securities and other instruments that effectively pay cumulative dividends   from Tier 1 capital status; (iii) strengthen the risk coverage of the capital framework, particularly with
respect to counterparty credit risk exposures arising from derivatives, repos and securities financing activities; (iv) introduce a leverage ratio requirement as an international standard; and (v) implement measures to promote the build-up
of capital buffers in good times that
        
   38   

Table of Contents  

can be drawn upon during periods of stress, introducing a countercyclical component designed to address the concern that existing capital requirements are procyclical   that is, they
encourage reducing capital buffers in good times, when capital could more easily be raised, and increasing capital buffers in times of distress, when access to capital markets may be limited or they may effectively be closed. The capital proposals
do not specify a percentage for the new ratio of common equity to risk-weighted assets or changes in the current minimum Tier 1 capital and total capital risk-based capital requirements, which currently are 4% and 8%, respectively. Instead,
they state that the minimum percentage requirements for the new ratio of common equity to risk-weighted assets and the other capital ratios including Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets, total capital to risk-weighted assets and the new
leverage ratio will be included in a  fully calibrated, comprehensive set  of capital and liquidity proposals to be released by December 31, 2010. Independently, in September 2009, the Department of the Treasury issued a policy
statement titled  Principles for Reforming the U.S. and International Regulatory Capital Framework for Banking Firms  setting forth core principles intended to address many of the same substantive items as the Basel Committee capital
proposals and specifically calling for increased capital requirements for financial institutions, and  substantially heightened  capital requirements for large financial institutions.      If implemented, the Basel Committee s liquidity proposals, although apparently similar in many respects to tests historically applied
by banking organizations and regulators for management and supervisory purposes, would for the first time be formulaic and required by regulation. They would impose two measures of liquidity risk exposure, one based on a 30-day time horizon and the
other addressing longer-term structural liquidity mismatches over a one-year time period.      The Basel Committee indicated that
it expects final provisions responsive to the proposals to be implemented by December 31, 2012. Ultimate implementation in individual countries, including the United States, is subject to the discretion of the bank regulators in those
countries. The Basel Committee s final proposals may differ from the proposals released in December 2009, and the regulations and guidelines adopted by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over the Company and our subsidiaries may differ
from the final accord of the Basel Committee. Moreover, although some aspects of the Basel Committee proposals were quite specific (e.g., the definition of the components of capital), others were merely conceptual (e.g., the description of the
leverage test) and others not specifically addressed (e.g., the minimum percentages for required capital ratios). We are not able to predict at this time the content of guidelines or regulations that will ultimately be adopted by regulatory agencies
having authority over the Company and our subsidiaries or the impact of changes in capital and liquidity regulation upon us. However, a requirement that the Company and our depository institution subsidiaries maintain more capital, with common
equity as a more predominant component, or manage the configuration of their assets and liabilities in order to comply with formulaic liquidity requirements, could significantly impact our return on equity, financial condition, operations, capital
position and ability to pursue business opportunities.       Prompt Corrective Action       The FDIA requires, among other things, that federal banking regulators take prompt corrective action in respect of FDIC-insured depository
institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The FDIA specifies five capital tiers:  well capitalized,   adequately capitalized,   undercapitalized,   significantly undercapitalized,  and
 critically undercapitalized.  A depository institution s capital tier will depend upon how its capital levels compare to various relevant capital measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation. A bank may be deemed
to be in a capitalization category that is lower than is indicated by its actual capital position if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating. Once an institution becomes  undercapitalized,  the FDIA imposes progressively more
restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the capital category in which an institution is classified. A depository institution that is not well capitalized is also subject to certain limitations on
brokered deposits and Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service deposits. The vast majority of the Company s U.S. retail deposits have to date been raised through broker channels. For a description of our deposit programs, please see
 Deposit Programs  beginning on page 23 above and  Deposit Programs  on page 42 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.         
   39   

Table of Contents  

   The FDIA generally prohibits an FDIC-insured depository institution from making any capital
distribution (including payment of dividends) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to restrictions on borrowing
from the Federal Reserve and to growth limitations, and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. For a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, any holding company must guarantee the capital plan up to an amount equal to the lesser of 5%
of the depository institution s assets at the time it became undercapitalized and the amount of the capital deficiency at the time it fails to comply with the plan. In the event of the holding company s bankruptcy, such guarantee would
take priority over claims of its general unsecured creditors. If a depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is significantly undercapitalized.      Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell
sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to appointment of a receiver
or conservator.       Dividends       The Company and TRS as well as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are limited by banking statutes and regulations in their ability to pay dividends. In general, federal and applicable state bank laws prohibit,
without first obtaining regulatory approval, insured depository institutions, such as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, from making dividend distributions if such distributions are not paid out of available recent earnings or would cause the institution to
fail to meet capital adequacy standards. In addition to specific limitations on the dividends that subsidiary banks can pay to their holding companies, federal regulators could prohibit a dividend that would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking
practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization.      It is Federal Reserve policy that bank holding
companies should generally pay to common shareholders dividends on common stock only out of net income available to common shareholders over the past year and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the
organization s current and expected future capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. Moreover, bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that place undue pressure on the capital of depository institution
subsidiaries or that may undermine the bank holding company s ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. The Federal Reserve could prohibit a dividend by the Company or TRS that would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking
practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization.       Transactions between Centurion Bank or AEBFSB
and Their Respective Affiliates       Certain transactions (including loans and credit extensions from Centurion Bank and
AEBFSB) between Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, on the one hand, and their affiliates (including the Company, TRS and their non-bank subsidiaries), on the other hand, are subject to quantitative and qualitative limitations, collateral requirements, and
other restrictions imposed by statute and Federal Reserve regulation. Transactions subject to these restrictions are generally required to be made on an arms-length basis. These restrictions generally do not apply to transactions between a
depository institution and its subsidiaries.       FDIC Insurance Assessments       Centurion Bank and AEBFSB accept deposits, and those deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable limits. The FDIC s deposit
insurance fund is funded by assessments on insured depository institutions, which depend on the risk category of an institution and the amount of insured deposits that the institution holds. The FDIC may increase or decrease the assessment rate
schedule on a semi-annual basis. Furthermore,
        
   40   

Table of Contents  

assessment rates are subject to adjustments based upon the insured depository institution s ratio of (1) long-term unsecured debt to domestic deposits, (2) secured liabilities to
domestic deposits, and (3) brokered deposits to domestic deposits (if greater than 10%).      As part of its efforts to
rebuild the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC adopted a rule imposing a special assessment of five basis points on each FDIC-insured depository institution s assets, minus its Tier 1 capital, as of June 30, 2009. This special assessment was
collected on September 30, 2009. Additionally, also as part of its efforts to rebuild the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC required insured depository institutions, including Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, to prepay their estimated assessments for
all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on December 30, 2009. The prepaid assessment amount for our insured depository institution subsidiaries totaled approximately $95.2 million, $6.7 million of which was recorded as an expense for income statement
purposes in 2009 and $88.5 million of which was recorded as a prepaid expense for balance sheet purposes as of December 31, 2009. Also as part of its efforts to rebuild the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC recently adopted a rule implementing a
uniform increase of three basis points for assessment rates, effective January 1, 2011.      Under the FDIA, the FDIC may
terminate the insurance of an institution s deposits upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation,
rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. We do not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of our deposit insurance.       FDIC Powers upon Insolvency of Insured Depository Institutions       If the FDIC
is appointed the conservator or receiver of an insured depository institution, such as Centurion Bank or AEBFSB, upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power: (1) to transfer any of the depository institution s
assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository institution s creditors; (2) to enforce the terms of the depository institution s contracts pursuant to their terms; or (3) to repudiate or disaffirm
any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, the performance of which is determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmation or repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the orderly administration
of the depository institution.        In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of U.S. deposit liabilities and
certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution and depositors in
non-U.S. offices, in the liquidation or other resolution of the institution by a receiver. As a result, whether or not the FDIC ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of Centurion Bank or AEBFSB, the debt holders would be treated differently
from, and could receive substantially less, if anything, than the depositors in U.S. offices of the depository institution.         Cross-Guarantee Provisions       Under the  cross-guarantee  provision of the Financial Institutions
Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 ( FIRREA ), insured depository institutions, such as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, may be liable to the FDIC with respect to any loss incurred or reasonably anticipated to be incurred by the FDIC
in connection with the default of, or FDIC assistance to, any commonly controlled insured depository institution. Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are commonly controlled within the meaning of the FIRREA cross-guarantee provision.       Community Reinvestment Act       Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are subject to the provisions of the Community Reinvestment Act ( CRA ). Under the terms of the CRA, the primary federal regulator of a depository institution is
required, in connection with its examination of the depository institution, to assess such depository institution s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by that depository institution, including low- and moderate-income
neighborhoods. Furthermore, such assessment is also required of any depository institution that has applied to,
        
   41   

Table of Contents  

among other things, merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of a federally regulated financial institution or to open or relocate a branch office. In the case of
a bank holding company applying for approval to acquire a bank or bank holding company, the Federal Reserve will assess the record of each subsidiary depository institution of the applicant bank holding company in considering the application. In
addition, as discussed previously, the failure of the Company s subsidiary depository institutions to maintain satisfactory CRA ratings could result in restrictions on the Company s and TRS  ability to engage in activities in reliance
on financial holding company authority.       Privacy and Fair Credit Reporting       We use information about our customers to develop and make available relevant, personalized products and services. Certain customers are
given choices about how we use and disclose their information, and we give them notice regarding the measures we take to safeguard this information. Regulatory activity in the areas of privacy and data security continues to increase worldwide,
spurred by advancements in technology and related concerns about the rapid and widespread dissemination and use of information. As noted above, as part of our efforts to enhance payment account data security, in 2006, we and several other payment
card networks formed PCI SSC, an independent standards-setting organization to manage the evolution of the PCI Data Security Standard, which helps organizations that process card payments to prevent credit/charge card security breaches and fraud
through increased controls around data and its exposure to compromise.      The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ( GLBA ) became
effective on July 1, 2001. GLBA requires consumer notice of a financial institution s privacy policies and practices and affords customers the right to  opt out  of the institution s disclosure of their personal financial
information to unaffiliated third parties (with limited exceptions). This legislation does not preempt state laws that afford greater privacy protections to consumers, and several states have adopted such legislation. For example, in 2003 California
enacted that state s Financial Information Privacy Act. As noted elsewhere in this Report, we are also subject to the FCRA, which, among other things, places restrictions (with limited exceptions) on the sharing and use of certain personal
financial information of our customers with and by our affiliates.      In addition, various federal banking regulatory agencies,
and as many as 45 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, have enacted security breach laws and regulations, requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a security breach. Data breach laws are
also becoming more prevalent in other parts of the world where we operate, including Japan, Mexico and Germany. In many countries that have yet to impose automatic data breach notification requirements, regulators have increasingly used the threat
of significant sanctions and penalties by data protection authorities to encourage voluntary notification and discourage data breaches.      Beyond these data breach laws, a growing number of states, including Massachusetts and Nevada, have adopted broad-ranging data security regulations regarding the protection of customer and employee data
that could result in higher compliance and technology costs for the Company. In 1995, the European Parliament and Council passed European Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the
free movement of such data (commonly referred to as the Data Protection Directive), which obligates the controller of an individual s personal data to, among other things, take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect
personal data.      We continue our efforts to safeguard the data entrusted to us in accordance with applicable law and our
internal data protection policies, including taking steps to reduce the potential for identity theft, while seeking to collect and use data properly to achieve our business objectives.      In May 2009, the CARD Act was enacted to prohibit certain practices for consumer credit card accounts. The CARD Act, among other
requirements, prohibits issuers from treating a payment as late for any purpose, including increasing the annual percentage rate or imposing a fee, unless a consumer has been provided a  reasonable amount of time  to make the payment. It
also requires issuers to apply payment amounts in excess of the minimum payment first to the balance with the highest APR and then to balances with lower APRs. In
        
   42   

Table of Contents  

addition, the Act prohibits an issuer from increasing the APR on outstanding balances, except in limited circumstances such as when a promotional rate expires, a variable rate adjusts, or an
account is seriously delinquent or completes a workout arrangement. These requirements became effective on February 22, 2010.      Also, beginning on February 22, 2010, issuers must maintain reasonable written policies to consider a consumer s income or assets and current obligations prior to opening an account or increasing a credit line. This may require
adjustments to our account opening decisioning and line increase decisioning processes. This is not expected to have any significant impact on these decisions   if anything it could result in fewer applications for new accounts being accepted
or fewer requests for line increases being approved. In addition, applicants for new accounts who are under the age of 21 must demonstrate an independent ability to make the required minimum periodic payments. This may decrease the number of
applications that are approved for applicants under the age of 21.      The Act also requires that penalty fees be reasonable and
proportional, and that issuers review recent APR increases periodically to determine if a decrease is appropriate. These provisions become effective on August 22, 2010. Since the Federal Reserve has not yet published final rules implementing
these provisions, it is difficult to assess the potential impact these requirements may have on our operations.      The Federal
Reserve also amended its rules on the format and content of consumer credit card disclosures. The amendments require revisions to the format and content of all main types of open-end consumer credit disclosures, including applications and
solicitations, account-opening disclosures, and periodic billing statements. These amendments become effective on July 1, 2010. While the Company is making certain changes to its product terms and practices that are designed to mitigate the
impact of the changes required by the CARD Act, there is no assurance that it will be successful. The long-term impact of the CARD Act on the Company s business practices and revenues will depend upon a number of factors, including its ability
to successfully implement its business strategies, consumer behavior and the actions of the Company s competitors, which are difficult to predict at this time. If the Company is not able to lessen the impact of the changes required by the CARD
Act, it will have a material adverse effect on results of operations.      The Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970
( FCRA ) regulates the disclosure of consumer credit reports by consumer reporting agencies and the use of consumer credit report information by banks and other companies. FCRA was significantly amended by the enactment in December 2003 of
the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (the  FACT Act ). The FACT Act requires any company that receives information concerning a consumer from an affiliate, subject to certain exceptions, to permit the consumer to opt out from
having that information used to market the company s products to the consumer. In November 2007, the federal banking agencies issued a final rule implementing the affiliate marketing provisions of the FACT Act. Companies subject to oversight by
these agencies were required to comply with the rules by October 1, 2008. We qualify for an exception from the affiliate marketing provisions of the FACT Act, and as a result, we do not need to provide an affiliate marketing opt out. The FACT
Act further amends the FCRA by adding several new provisions designed to prevent or decrease identity theft and to improve the accuracy of consumer credit information. The federal banking agencies and the FTC published a final rule in November 2007
requiring financial institutions to implement a program containing reasonable policies and procedures to address the risk of identity theft and to identify accounts where identity theft is more likely to occur. Companies subject to oversight by the
federal banking agencies originally were required to comply with the rule by November 1, 2008, but the FTC has stated it will suspend enforcement of its rule until June 1, 2010. TRS continues to be regulated by the FTC with respect to this new
rule and is currently evaluating what steps it will need to take to comply. The FACT Act also imposes new duties on both consumer reporting agencies and on businesses that furnish or use information contained in consumer credit reports. For example,
a furnisher of information is required to implement procedures to prevent the reporting of any information that it learns is the result of identity theft. Also, if a consumer disputes the accuracy of information provided to a consumer reporting
agency, the furnisher of that information must conduct an investigation and respond to the consumer in a timely fashion. The federal banking regulatory agencies and the FTC have issued rules that specify the circumstances under which furnishers of
information would be
        
   43   

Table of Contents  

required to investigate disputes regarding the accuracy of the information provided to a consumer reporting agency. The FACT Act also requires grantors of credit that use consumer credit report
information in making a determination to offer a borrower credit on terms that are  materially less favorable  than the terms offered to most of the lender s other customers to notify the borrower that the terms are based on a
consumer credit report. In such a case the borrower is entitled to receive a free copy of the report from the consumer reporting agency. The federal bank regulatory agencies and the FTC have issued rules that specify the circumstances under which
 risk-based pricing  notices must be provided to customers and the content, format and timing of such notices. Grantors of credit using prescreened consumer credit report information in credit solicitations are also required to include an
enhanced notice to consumers that they have the right to opt out from receiving further prescreened offers of credit. The enactment of the FACT Act and the promulgation of rules implementing it are not expected to have a significant impact on our
business or practices.       Anti-Money Laundering Compliance       In the United States, the USA Patriot Act was enacted in October 2001 in the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The
Patriot Act, in addition to substantially broadening existing anti-money laundering ( AML ) and terrorist financing legislation, amended the Bank Secrecy Act, the primary legislation governing AML requirements. The Patriot Act contains a
wide variety of provisions aimed at fighting terrorism and money laundering, including provisions aimed at impeding terrorists  ability to access and move funds used in support of terrorist activities. Among other things, the Bank Secrecy Act,
as amended by the Patriot Act, requires financial institutions to establish AML programs that meet certain standards, including, in some instances, expanded reporting and enhanced information gathering and recordkeeping requirements. While American
Express has long maintained AML programs in our businesses, certain of our business activities are subject to specific AML regulations that prescribe minimum standards for components of the AML programs. For example, our GNS business maintains a
risk-based program to ensure that institutions that are licensed to issue cards or acquire merchants on their networks maintain adequate AML controls. We have also developed and implemented a Know Your Customer, or due diligence, program and an
enhanced due diligence program, including a program for verifying the identity of our customers ( Customer Identification Program ) for applicable businesses. We will take steps to comply with any additional regulations or initiatives that
are adopted, whether in the United States or in other jurisdictions in which we conduct business.      Over the last several
years, the industry has seen increased regulatory scrutiny of the AML compliance programs of financial institutions, with emphasis on record keeping and reporting requirements such as the requirement to identify and report suspicious activity,
leading to enforcement actions for non-compliance. To meet this increased scrutiny, we continue to enhance our enterprise-wide AML compliance program. Our AML compliance programs primarily consist of risk-based policies, procedures and controls that
are reasonably designed to prevent, detect and report money laundering.      We have significant operations in the European Union,
including a number of regulated businesses. We monitor developments in EU legislation, as well as in the other markets in which we operate, to ensure that we are in a position to comply with all applicable legal requirements, including European
Union directives applicable to payment institutions, credit providers, insurance intermediaries and other financial institutions.         Compensation Practices       Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve. In
October 2009, the Federal Reserve issued a comprehensive proposal on incentive compensation policies that applies to all banking organizations supervised by the Federal Reserve, including bank holding companies such as American Express. The proposal
sets forth three key principles for incentive compensation arrangements that are designed to help ensure that incentive compensation plans do not encourage excessive risk-taking and are consistent with the safety and soundness of banking
organizations. The three principles provide that a banking organization s incentive compensation arrangements should provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the
        
   44   

Table of Contents  

organization s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and be supported by strong corporate governance. Any
deficiencies in compensation practices of a banking institution that are identified by the Federal Reserve in connection with its review of such organization s compensation practices may be incorporated into the organization s supervisory
ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The proposal provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk-management
control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. Separately, the FDIC has solicited comments on whether to amend
its risk-based deposit insurance assessment system to potentially increase assessment rates on financial institutions with compensation programs that put the FDIC deposit insurance fund at risk, and proposed legislation would subject compensation
practices at financial institutions to heightened standards and increased scrutiny.      The scope and content of the U.S. banking
regulators  policies on executive compensation are continuing to develop and are likely to continue evolving in the near future. It cannot be determined at this time whether compliance with such policies will adversely affect the ability of
American Express and its subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate its and their key employees.       Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act       Our international operations are subject to U.S. laws governing the activities of U.S. companies transacting business
abroad, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the  FCPA ). The FCPA prohibits U.S. companies from making improper payments, or offers of payments, to foreign governments and their officials and political parties for the purpose
of obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also requires us to comply with certain accounting standards, which are enforced by the SEC. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions and other penalties. We have
implemented safeguards to deter prohibited practices; however, if our employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws governing our international operations, we may face investigations or prosecutions, which could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition or results of operations.         FOREIGN OPERATIONS       We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the use of our Card products, Travelers Cheques, travel and other financial products
and services in countries outside the United States and continue to broaden the use of these products and services outside the United States. (For a discussion of our revenue by geographic region, see Note 25 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements, which you can find on pages 122-124 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders and which is incorporated herein by reference.) Our revenues can be affected by political and economic conditions in these countries (including the
availability of foreign exchange for the payment by the local Card issuer of obligations arising out of local Cardmembers  spending outside such country, for the payment of Card bills by Cardmembers who are billed in other than their local
currency, and for the remittance of the proceeds of Travelers Cheque sales). Substantial and sudden devaluation of local Cardmembers  currency can also affect their ability to make payments to the local issuer of the Card in connection with
spending outside the local country.      As a result of our foreign operations, we are exposed to the possibility that, because of
foreign exchange rate fluctuations, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar may be realized in amounts greater or less than the U.S. dollar amounts at which they are currently recorded in our Consolidated
Financial Statements. Examples of transactions in which this may occur include the purchase by Cardmembers of goods and services in a currency other than the currency in which they are billed; the sale in one currency of a Travelers Cheque
denominated in a second currency; and, in most instances, investments in foreign operations. These risks, unless properly monitored and managed, could have an adverse effect on our operations. For more information on how we manage risk relating to
foreign exchange, see  Risk Management Market Risk Management Process  on pages 47-49 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.         
   45   

Table of Contents  

      SALE OF AMERICAN EXPRESS BANK LTD. / DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
      On September 18, 2007, we entered into an agreement to sell our international banking subsidiary, American Express
Bank Ltd. ( AEBL ), to Standard Chartered PLC ( Standard Chartered ), and to sell American Express International Deposit Company ( AEIDC ) through a put/call agreement to Standard Chartered 18 months after the close of
the AEBL sale. The sale of AEBL was completed on February 29, 2008. In the third quarter of 2008, AEIDC qualified to be reported as a discontinued operation and the sale of AEIDC was completed on September 10, 2009.      For all periods presented, all of the operating results, assets and liabilities, and cash flows of AEBL (except for certain components of
AEBL that were not sold) and AEIDC have been removed from the Corporate   Other segment and are presented separately in discontinued operations in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. The Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements have been adjusted to exclude discontinued operations unless otherwise noted.      You can find more information
regarding this transaction on page 21 under caption  Financial Review  and in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, appearing on page 76 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which are incorporated herein by reference.
        SEGMENT INFORMATION AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR SERVICES       You can find information regarding the Company s reportable operating segments, geographic operations and classes of similar services
in Note 25 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which appears on pages 122-124 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which Note is incorporated herein by reference.         EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY       Set forth below in alphabetical order is a list of all our executive officers as of February 25, 2010. None of our executive officers has any family relationship with any other executive officer, and none of our executive officers became an
officer pursuant to any arrangement or understanding with any other person. Each executive officer has been elected to serve until the next annual election of officers or until his or her successor is elected and qualified. Each officer s age
is indicated by the number in parentheses next to his or her name.       

DOUGLAS E. BUCKMINSTER -   
      
  President, International Consumer and Small Business Services   

Mr. Buckminster (49) has been President, International Consumer and Small Business Services of the Company since November 2009.
Prior thereto he had been Executive Vice President, International Consumer Products and Marketing since July 2002.    

KENNETH I. CHENAULT -   
      
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   

Mr. Chenault (58) has been Chairman since April 2001 and Chief Executive Officer since January 2001.    

L. KEVIN COX -   
      
  Executive Vice President, Human Resources   

Mr. Cox (46) has been Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the Company since April 2005. Prior thereto, he had been
Executive Vice President of The Pepsi Bottling Group since September 2004.    
       
   46   

Table of Contents  

EDWARD P. GILLIGAN -   
      
  Vice Chairman   

Mr. Gilligan (50) has been Vice Chairman of the Company and head of the Company s Global Consumer and Small Business Card
Issuing, Network and Merchant businesses since October 2009. Prior thereto, he had been Vice Chairman of the Company and head of the Company s Global Business to Business Group since July 2007. Prior thereto, he had been Group President,
American Express International   Global Corporate Services since July 2005. Prior thereto, he had been Group President, Global Corporate Services since June 2000 and Group President, Global Corporate Services   International
Payments, since July 2003.    

WILLIAM H. GLENN -   
      
  Executive Vice President, Global Merchant Services   

Mr. Glenn (52) has been Executive Vice President since September 2008 and President, Global Merchant Services since June 2007.
Prior thereto, he had been President of Merchant Services North America and Global Merchant Network Group since September 2002.    

ASH GUPTA -   
      
  President of Risk, Information Management and Banking Group and Chief Risk Officer   

Mr. Gupta (56) has been President of Risk, Information Management and Banking Group and Chief Risk Officer since July 2007.
Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of the Company since July 2003.    

JOHN D. HAYES -   
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer   

Mr. Hayes (55) has been Executive Vice President since May 1995 and Chief Marketing Officer of the Company since August 2003.

DANIEL T. HENRY -   
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

Mr. Henry (60) has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since October 2007. Since February
2007, Mr. Henry had been serving as Executive Vice President and Acting Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, U.S. Consumer, Small Business and Merchant Services
since October 2005 and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, U.S. Consumer and Small Business Services since August 2000.    

ALFRED F. KELLY, JR. -   
      
  President   

Mr. Kelly (51) has been President of the Company since July 2007. Prior thereto, he was Group President, Consumer, Small
Business and Merchant Services since October 2005. Prior thereto, he had been President, U.S. Consumer and Small Business Services since June 2000.    

JUDSON C. LINVILLE -   
      
  President and Chief Executive Officer, Consumer Services   

Mr. Linville (52) has been President and Chief Executive Officer of Consumer Services, since July 2007. Prior thereto, he had
been President, U.S. Consumer Card Services Group from 2005 through 2007. Prior thereto, he was Executive Vice President, Service Delivery Network from 2001 through 2005.    

LOUISE M. PARENT -   
      
  Executive Vice President and General Counsel   

Ms. Parent (59) has been Executive Vice President and General Counsel since May 1993.    

THOMAS SCHICK -   
      
  Executive Vice President, Corporate and External Affairs   

Mr. Schick (63) has been Executive Vice President, Corporate and External Affairs since March 1993.    
       
   47   

Table of Contents  

STEPHEN SQUERI -   
      
  Group President, Global Services and Chief Information Officer   

Mr. Squeri (50) has been Group President, Global Services, since October 2009. Since May 2005, he served as Executive Vice
President, Chief Information Officer. In July 2008, he took on the additional responsibilities as head of Corporate Development. Prior thereto, he had been President, Global Commercial Card   Global Corporate Services since January
2002.           EMPLOYEES       We had approximately 58,300 employees on December 31, 2009.         
   48   

Table of Contents  

      GUIDE 3   STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES    
  The accompanying supplemental information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company s 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference ( Annual Report ). This information excludes discontinued operations unless otherwise noted.
      DISTRIBUTION OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, AND SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY; INTEREST RATES AND INTEREST DIFFERENTIAL       The following tables provide a summary of the Company s consolidated average balances including major categories of interest-earning
assets and interest-bearing liabilities along with an analysis of net interest earnings. Consolidated average balances, interest, and average yields are segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. offices. Assets, liabilities, interest income and interest
expense are attributed to U.S. and non-U.S. based on location of the office recording such items.       
       
   49   

Table of Contents  

(a)  
  Averages based on monthly balances, except reserves for cardmember and other receivables/loans, which are based on quarterly averages.     

(b)  
  Amounts include (i) average interest-bearing restricted cash balances of $417 million, $214 million, and $293 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which
are included in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and (ii) the associated interest income.     

(c)  
  Average balances in 2007 include negative cash balances not reclassified to liabilities which also could not be segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. As a result, the
average yield on interest-bearing deposits in other banks has not been shown for 2007 as it would not be meaningful (n.m.).     

(d)  
  Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made to conform to the current presentation.     

(g)  
  Average yields for available-for-sale investment securities have been calculated using total amortized cost balances and do not include changes in fair value recorded
in other comprehensive (loss) income. Average yield on non-taxable investment securities is calculated on a tax-equivalent basis using the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35 percent.     

(h)  
  Amounts include (i) average equity securities balances, which are included in investment securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and (ii) the
associated dividend income. The average yield on other assets has not been shown as it would not be meaningful.     

(i)  
  The average yield on total interest-earning assets is adjusted for the impacts of items mentioned in (g) above.     

(j)  
  Includes premises and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation.           

   50   

Table of Contents  

(a)  
  Averages based on monthly balances.     

(b)  
  Interest expense incurred on derivative instruments in qualifying hedging relationships has been reported along with the related interest expense incurred on the hedged
debt instrument.     

(c)  
  Amounts include (i) average deferred compensation liability balances which are included in other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and (ii) the
associated interest expense. The average rate on other liabilities has not been shown as it would not be meaningful.     

(d)  
  Net average yield on interest-earning assets is defined as net interest income divided by average total interest-earning assets as adjusted for the items mentioned in
note (g) on page 50.           
   51   

Table of Contents  

    CHANGES IN NET INTEREST INCOME -VOLUME AND RATE ANALYSIS (a)       The following table presents the amount of changes in interest income and interest expense due to changes in both average volume and average
rate. Major categories of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities have been segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. offices. Average volume/rate changes have been allocated between the average rate and average volume variances on a
consistent basis based upon the respective percentage changes in average balances and average rates.       

(a)  
  Refer to the notes on pages 50 and 51 for additional information.     

(b)  
  Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made to conform to the current presentation.           
   52   

Table of Contents  

    INVESTMENT SECURITIES PORTFOLIO       The following table presents the fair value of the Company s available-for-sale investment securities portfolio. Refer to Note 6,
 Investment Securities  on page 84 in the Annual Report for additional information.       

(a)  
  Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made to conform to the current presentation.     

(b)  
  Balances at December 31, 2009 and 2008, primarily include investments in various mutual funds. Balance at December 31, 2007, primarily includes short-term money
market securities with original maturities of 91 days to one year, as well as investments in various mutual funds.        The following table presents an analysis of remaining contractual maturities and weighted average yields for available-for-sale investment securities. Yields on tax-exempt obligations have been computed on a tax-equivalent basis as
discussed earlier.       

(a)  
  The expected payments on state and municipal obligations and mortgage-backed securities may not coincide with their contractual maturities because borrowers have the
right to call or prepay certain obligations.     

(b)  
  The Company s individual investments in the unrated classes of its retained subordinated securities contain multiple maturity dates over periods ranging from 2010
through 2018. Accordingly, in the table above, the Company has classified such investments based on the weighted-average maturity.     

(c)  
  Excludes equity securities and other securities included in the prior table above as these are not debt securities with contractual maturities.

(d)  
  Average yields for available-for-sale investment securities have been calculated using the effective yield on the date of purchase.        As of December 31, 2009, other than U.S. Government treasury and agency obligations, the Company s holdings in the American
Express Credit Account Master Trust (the  Lending Trust ) with a book value of $3.6 billion were the only investments that exceeded 10 percent of shareholders  equity. The securities issued by the Lending Trust consist of
investments in retained subordinated securities from the Company s cardmember loan securitization program.         
   53   

Table of Contents  

    LOANS AND CARDMEMBER RECEIVABLES PORTFOLIOS       The following table presents gross loans, net of unearned income, and gross cardmember receivables by customer type segregated between U.S.
and non-U.S., based on the domicile of the borrowers. Allowance for losses is presented beginning on page 60. Refer to Note 4,  Accounts Receivable  on page 80 and Note 5,  Loans  on page 82 in the Annual
Report for additional information.       

(a)  
  Represents loans to individual and small business consumers.     

(b)  
  Other loans at December 31, 2009 and 2008 primarily represent small business installment loans, a store card portfolio whose billed business is not processed on
the Company s network, and small business loans associated with the acquisition of Corporate Payment Services. Other loans at December 31, 2008, also included a loan to an affiliate in discontinued operations. 2007 and prior periods
primarily represent small business installment loans.     

(c)  
  Represents receivables from individual and small business charge card consumers.     

(d)  
  Represents receivables from corporate charge card clients.           
   54   

Table of Contents  

    MATURITIES AND SENSITIVITIES TO CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES       The following table presents contractual maturities of loans and cardmember receivables by customer type and segregated between U.S. and
non-U.S. borrowers, and distribution between fixed and floating interest rates for loans due after one year based upon the stated terms of the loan agreements.       

(a)  
  Cardmember loans have no stated maturity and are therefore included in the due within one year category. However, many of the Company s cardmembers will revolve
their balances, which may extend their repayment period beyond one year for balances due at December 31, 2009.     

(b)  
  Cardmember receivables are immediately due upon receipt of cardmember statements and have no stated interest rate and are included within the due within one year
category. Receivables due after one year represent long-term modification programs or Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDR), wherein the terms of a receivable have been modified for cardmembers that are experiencing financial difficulties and a
long-term concession (more than 12 months) has been granted to the borrower.     

(c)  
  Cardmember and other loans due after one year primarily represent installment loans and approximately $51 million of TDRs.           
   55   

Table of Contents  

    CARDMEMBER LOAN AND CARDMEMBER RECEIVABLE CONCENTRATIONS       The following table presents the Company s exposure to any concentration of gross cardmember loans and cardmember receivables which
exceeds 10 percent of total cardmember loans and cardmember receivables. Cardmember loan and cardmember receivable concentrations are defined as cardmember loans and cardmember receivables due from multiple borrowers engaged in similar activities
that would cause these borrowers to be impacted similarly to certain economic or other related conditions.       

(a)  
  Refer to Note 22,  Significant Credit Concentrations  on page 118 in the Annual Report for additional information on concentrations, including those from
airlines and for a discussion of how the Company manages concentration exposures. Certain distinctions between categories require management judgment.     

(b)  
  Includes corporate charge card receivables of $513 million from financial institutions, $12 million from U.S. Government agencies and $9.3 billion from other corporate
institutions.     

(c)  
  Because charge card products have no preset spending limit, the associated credit limit on cardmember receivables is not quantifiable. Therefore, the quantified unused
line-of-credit amounts only include the approximate credit line available on cardmember loans (including both for on-balance sheet loans and loans previously securitized).           
   56   

Table of Contents  

    RISK ELEMENTS       The following table presents the amounts of non-performing loans and cardmember receivables that are either non-accrual, past due, or restructured, segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers. Past due
loans are loans that are contractually past due 90 days or more as to principal or interest payments. Restructured loans and cardmember receivables are those that meet the definition of  Troubled Debt Restructurings .       

(a)  
  The Company s policy is generally to cease accruing interest income once a related cardmember loan is 180 days past due at which time the cardmember loan is
written off. The Company establishes loan loss reserves for estimated uncollectible interest receivable balances prior to write-off. Beginning with 2009, certain cardmember loans placed with outside collection agencies are put on non-accrual status.

(b)  
  As of December 31, 2009, these amounts primarily include certain cardmember loans placed with outside collection agencies. Non-accrual loans at December 31,
2006 and 2005 included a single loan to a U.S. commercial airline of approximately $104 million and $266 million, respectively, which was paid off in full during the second quarter of 2007. The loan was put on non-accrual status in the third quarter
of 2005.     

(c)  
  Represents long-term modification programs or TDR, wherein the terms of a loan or receivable have been modified for cardmembers that are experiencing financial
difficulties and a long-term concession (more than 12 months) has been granted to the borrower. The Company may modify cardmember loans and receivables and such modifications may include reducing the interest rate/delinquency fees on the loans and
receivables and/or placing the cardmember on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months. If the cardmember does not comply with the modified terms, then the loan or receivable agreement reverts back to its original terms. In addition to TDRs, the
Company has instituted other modification programs that include short-term (12 months or less) interest rate and fee reductions to cardmembers experiencing financial difficulty ( Short Term Modification Programs ). As of
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately $701 million, $497 million and $0, respectively, in cardmember loans and receivables have been modified under these Short Term Modification Programs and are not included in the schedule above,
except for $46 million, $69 million and $0, respectively, which are included within loans contractually 90 days past due and still accruing interest.     

(d)  
  Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made to conform to the current presentation.           
   57   

Table of Contents  

    IMPACT OF NON-PERFORMING LOANS ON INTEREST INCOME       The following table presents the gross interest income for both non-accrual and restructured loans for 2009 that would have been recognized
if such loans had been current in accordance with their original contractual terms, and had been outstanding throughout the period or since origination if held for only part of 2009. The table also presents the interest income related to these loans
that was actually recognized for the period. These amounts are segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers.       

Year Ended December 31,    (Millions)       
      
   2009    

U.S.   
      
   Non-U.S.   
      
   Total    
 
    Gross amount of interest income that would have been recorded in accordance with the original contractual terms
(a)   
      
  $  
  53  
      
  $  
  4  
      
  $  
  57   
 
    Interest income actually recognized   

3  

1  

4   

Total interest revenue foregone    
      
   $   
   50   
      
   $   
   3   
      
   $   
   53    

(a)  
  Based on the contractual rate that was being charged at the time the loan was restructured or placed on non-accrual status.         POTENTIAL PROBLEM RECEIVABLES       This disclosure presents outstanding amounts as well as specific reserves for certain receivables where information about possible credit problems of borrowers causes management to have serious doubts as to the ability of such borrowers to
comply with the present repayment terms. At December 31, 2009, the Company did not identify any potential problem loans or receivables within the cardmember loans and receivables portfolio that were not already included in  Risk
Elements  above.         
   58   

Table of Contents  

    CROSS-BORDER OUTSTANDINGS       Cross-border disclosure is based upon the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council s ( FFIEC ) guidelines governing
the determination of cross-border risk. The Company has adopted the FFIEC guidelines for its cross-border disclosure starting with 2009 reporting. Accordingly, the amounts for 2008 and 2007 have been revised from the previously reported amounts to
conform to the current presentation.      The primary differences between the FFIEC and Guide 3 guidelines for reporting
cross-border exposure are: i) available-for-sale investment securities are reported based on amortized cost for FFIEC instead of fair values for Guide 3; ii) net local country claims are reduced by local country liabilities (regardless of currency
denomination) excluding any debt that is funding the local assets through a foreign domiciled subsidiary for FFIEC compared to Guide 3 where only amounts in the same currencies are offset and such debt noted above is a reduction to local country
claims; iii) the FFIEC methodology includes mark-to-market exposures of derivative assets which are excluded under Guide 3; and iv) investment in unconsolidated subsidiaries are included under FFIEC but excluded under Guide 3.      The following table presents the aggregate amount of cross-border outstandings from borrowers or counterparties for each foreign country
that exceeds 1 percent of consolidated total assets for any of the periods reported below. Cross-border outstandings include loans, receivables, interest-bearing deposits with other banks, other interest-bearing investments and monetary assets that
are denominated in either dollars or other non-local currency.      The table separately presents the amounts of cross-border
outstandings by type of borrower including governments and official institutions, banks and other financial institutions and other, along with an analysis of local country assets net of local country liabilities.       

(a)  
  Includes the following countries each of whose cross-border outstandings are between 0.75 percent and 1.0 percent of consolidated total assets: (i) Mexico;
(ii) Italy; and (iii) Sweden.     

(b)  
  Generally, all charge and credit cards have revocable lines of credit, and therefore, are not disclosed as cross border commitments. Refer to loan concentrations on
page 56 for amount of unused lines of credit.           
   59   

Table of Contents  

    SUMMARY OF LOAN LOSS EXPERIENCE        ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES       The following table summarizes
the changes to the Company s allowance for cardmember loan losses. The table segregates such changes between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers.       

(a)  
  Refer to Note 5 on page 82 in the Annual Report for a discussion of management s process for evaluating allowance for loan losses.     

(b)  
  In the third quarter of 2008, the Company revised its method of reporting the cardmember lending net write-off rate. Historically, the net write-off rate has been
presented using net write-off amounts for principal, interest, and fees. However, industry convention is generally to include only the net write-offs related to principal in write-off rate disclosures. The write-off rate for 2009, 2008 and 2007 is a
principal only write-off rate consistent with industry convention. The write-off rate for 2006 and 2005 reflects principal only write-offs in the U.S. and total write-offs (principal, interest, and fees) outside the U.S. as principal only write-off
information was not available outside the U.S. for 2006 and prior periods.     

(d)  
  The amount for 2009 primarily includes $160 million of reserves that were removed in connection with securitizations during the year. The offset is in the allocated
cost of the associated retained subordinated securities. For 2008, this amount includes reclassification of waived fee reserves to contra-cardmember loans. This amount, for all periods, also includes foreign currency translation adjustments.

(e)  
  Average cardmember loans are based on monthly balances.           
   60   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the changes to the Company s allowance for other loan
losses. The table segregates such changes between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers. (a) (b)       

(a)  
  Not all information for 2005 has been presented as the information was not available.     

(b)  
  Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made to conform to the current presentation.     

(c)  
  Provisions for other loan losses are determined based on a specific identification methodology and models that analyze specific portfolios statistics.

(d)  
  Includes primarily foreign currency translation adjustments.     

(e)  
  Calculated as net write-offs as a percentage of average other loans, which are based on monthly balances.           
   61   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the changes to the Company s allowance for losses on
cardmember receivables. The table segregates such changes between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers.       
       
   62   

Table of Contents  

(a)  
  Refer to Note 4 on page 80 in the Annual Report for a discussion of management s process for evaluating allowance for loan losses.     

(b)  
  In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in U.S. Card Services are written off to 180 days past
due, consistent with applicable regulatory guidance. Previously, receivables were written off when 360 days past billing. The net write-offs for 2008 include approximately $341 million resulting from this write-off methodology change.

(c)  
  Includes foreign currency translation adjustments for all periods. For 2008, this amount also included other adjustments primarily related to the reclassification of
waived fee reserves to a contra-cardmember receivable.     

(d)  
  The net write-off rate presented is on a worldwide basis and is based on write-offs of principal and fees. The U.S. Card Services write-off rate was 3.8 percent for
2009 and 3.6 percent for 2008 and is based on principal-only write-offs. Averages are based on monthly balances. If the $341 million referenced in (b) above had been included in U.S. Card Services write-offs, the net write-off rate would have
been 5.4 percent for 2008.     

(e)  
  The net loss ratio represents the worldwide ratio of charge card write-offs consisting of principal (resulting from authorized and unauthorized transactions) and fee
components, less recoveries, on cardmember receivables expressed as a percent of gross amounts billed to customers. As a result of the change discussed in (b) above, the Company stopped calculating the worldwide net loss ratio beginning in
2008. The net loss ratio for 2009 and 2008 for International Card Services was 0.36 percent and 0.24 percent, respectively and for Global Commercial Services was 0.19 percent and 0.13 percent, respectively.           
   63   

Table of Contents  

    ALLOCATION OF ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES       The following table presents an allocation of the allowance for losses for loans and cardmember receivables and the percent of loans and
cardmember receivables in each category of total loans and cardmember receivables, respectively, by customer type. The table segregates loans and cardmember receivables and related allowances for losses between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers.

64   

Table of Contents  

    CUSTOMER DEPOSITS       The following table presents the average balances and average interest rate paid for types of customer deposits segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. offices. Refer to Note 9,  Customer
Deposits  on page 93 in the Annual Report for additional information.       

(a)  
  Averages are based on monthly balances.     

(b)  
  The average balances include primarily non-interest-bearing and interest-bearing demand deposits.     

(c)  
  Includes primarily non-interest-bearing demand, interest-bearing demand and savings deposits. None of these customer deposit categories exceeded 10 percent of
average total customer deposits for any of the periods presented.         TIME CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT OF $100,000 OR MORE
      The following table presents the amount of time certificates of deposit of $100,000 or more issued by the Company in its
U.S. offices, further segregated by time remaining until maturity.       
    As of
December 31, 2009, the Company did not have time deposits of $100,000 or more issued by non-U.S. offices.       RETURN ON EQUITY AND ASSETS
      The following table presents the Company s return on average total assets, return on average shareholders 
equity, dividend payout ratio, and average shareholders  equity to average total assets ratio.       

(a)  
  Effective January 1, 2009, guidance for determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities requires that
restricted stock awards be included in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method. Accordingly, the Company has retrospectively adjusted EPS for 2008 and 2007.     

(b)  
  Based on the year s net income as a percentage of average total assets calculated using monthly average balances.     

(c)  
  Based on the year s net income as a percentage of average shareholders  equity calculated using monthly average balances.     

(d)  
  Calculated on the year s dividends declared per share as a percentage of the year s net income per basic share.           
   65   

Table of Contents  

    SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS       The following table presents amounts and weighted average rates for categories of short-term borrowings. Refer to Note 10,  Debt  on page 94 in the Annual Report for additional information.

(b)  
  Includes term federal funds purchased and overnight federal funds purchased.        Short-term borrowings, including commercial paper and federal funds purchased, are defined as any debt instrument with an original maturity
of 12 months or less. Federal funds purchased represent overnight and term funds as well as Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Commercial paper generally is issued in amounts not less than $100,000 and with maturities of 270 days or less. Other
short-term borrowings include interest-bearing overdrafts with banks, interest bearing amounts due to merchants in accordance with merchant service agreements, as well as other short-term borrowings.         
   66   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS         This
section highlights specific risks that could affect our Company and its businesses. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the
information currently known to us, we believe the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company. However, the risks and uncertainties our Company faces are not limited to those described below. Additional
risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.      If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events or if the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur or continue to occur, these events or circumstances could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities.       Current Economic and Political Risks         Difficult conditions in the global capital
markets and economy generally, as well as political conditions in the United States and elsewhere, may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.        Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the United
States and elsewhere around the world.      Ongoing concerns over the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage and real
estate markets, sovereign debt crises, fear of a double-dip recession and geopolitical issues have contributed to uncertain expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with still relatively low levels of
business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, continue to impact global economies, which helped drive declines in credit and charge card usage and adverse changes in payment patterns by consumers and businesses. It is unclear the
degree to which the U.S. government s economic stimulus spending will foster economic growth in the United States during the remainder of 2010. This environment has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on us, in part because we are
very dependent upon consumer and business behavior. If the economy were to worsen, customer behaviors could change further. For example, Cardmembers could decide to redeem Membership Rewards points at abnormally high levels to replace cash
expenditures.      Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, interest rates, the volatility and
strength of the capital markets and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, our profitability. An economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower
business investment and lower consumer spending is likely to materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the factors discussed above may cause our earnings, credit metrics and margins to
fluctuate and diverge from expectations of analysts and investors, who may have differing assumptions regarding their impact on our business, and may impact the trading price of our common shares.      The scarcity of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial markets, reduced consumer and business spending, and credit metric
performance also pose other risks to our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, we may face the following risks, among others, in connection with these events:       

The processes we use to estimate losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions,
that may no longer be capable of accurate estimation.          

Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite
credit to our customers become less predictive of future write-offs.            
   67   

Table of Contents  

In the event the respective three-month average rate of excess spread earned on credit card loans and charge card receivables securitized by us falls
below certain designated levels, the securitization trusts established by us would be required to fund a cash reserve account (from cash that would normally revert back to us through the collection process), or, in the event such three-month average
should fall below zero, the securitization trusts established by us would be required to amortize earlier than scheduled, which would accelerate our need for additional funding.         Political or economic instability in certain regions or countries could also affect our commercial or other lending activities, among other
businesses, or result in restrictions on convertibility of certain currencies. In addition, our travel network may be adversely affected by world geopolitical and other conditions. Travel expenditures are sensitive to business and personal
discretionary spending levels and tend to decline during general economic downturns.      Terrorist attacks, natural disasters or
other catastrophic events may have a negative effect on our business. Because of our proximity to the World Trade Center, our headquarters were damaged as a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Similar events or other
disasters or catastrophic events in the future could have a negative effect on our businesses and infrastructure, including our information technology systems. Because we derive a portion of our revenues from travel-related spending, our business
will be sensitive to safety concerns, and thus is likely to decline during periods in which travelers become concerned about safety issues or when travel might involve health-related risks.      If the conditions described above (or similar ones) persist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our
results of operations and financial condition.        Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to
meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital.        The global money and capital markets, while demonstrating
generally improved conditions, remain susceptible to volatility and disruption, which could negatively impact market liquidity conditions.      We need liquidity to pay operating expenses, interest on debt and dividends on capital stock and to repay maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to limit our investments in
growth opportunities or curtail operations. The principal sources of our liquidity are payments from Cardmembers, cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash,
deposits placed with the Company s U.S. banks, debt instruments such as unsecured medium- and long-term notes and asset securitizations, and long-term committed bank borrowing facilities in certain non-U.S. markets.      Notwithstanding our solid financial position, we are not immune from pressures experienced broadly across the financial markets. The
fragility of the credit markets and the current economic and regulatory environment have impacted financial services companies. Although the market for our unsecured term debt and asset securitizations has improved since the third quarter of 2009,
there is no assurance that the markets will be open to us in the future. Therefore, our ability to obtain financing in the debt capital markets for unsecured term debt and asset securitizations is dependent on investor demand. In addition, our
liquidity position will be impacted by our ability to meet our objectives with respect to the growth of our brokered retail CD program and brokerage sweep account program and the implementation of our direct deposit initiative. We also would have
less flexibility in accessing the commercial paper market as a short-term funding vehicle due to Credco s short-term debt rating and the volatility in the commercial paper market generally.      In the event that current sources of liquidity, including internal sources, do not satisfy our needs, we would be required to seek
additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit and consumer deposits, the overall availability of credit to the financial services
industry, our credit ratings (which were downgraded in April 2009 by two of the major ratings agencies), and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders or depositors could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term
financial prospects if we incur large credit losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to an economic downturn.         
   68   

Table of Contents  

   Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies
take negative actions against us. While we experienced some positive credit trends in the latter half of 2009, if the performance of our charge card and credit card portfolios were to weaken through increasing delinquencies and write-offs, our
long-term and short-term debt ratings could be further downgraded and our access to capital could be materially adversely affected and our cost of capital could increase. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may
also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities, satisfy regulatory capital requirements and access the capital necessary to grow
our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost to raise capital, which could decrease profitability and significantly reduce financial flexibility. If levels of market disruption and volatility worsen,
there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.      For a further discussion of our liquidity and funding needs, see  Financial Review Funding Programs and Activities  on pages
40-43 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.        We can be adversely affected by
the impairment of other financial institutions.        Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be
adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial services institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We routinely execute
transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies. Defaults or non-performance by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services
institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by one or more of our counterparties, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations and financial condition.        Any reduction in the Company s and its subsidiaries  credit ratings could increase the
cost of our funding from, and restrict our access to, the capital markets and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.        Although the Company s and its subsidiaries  long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies, the ratings of that debt have been downgraded during the second
quarter of 2009 by Moody s Investors Services ( Moody s ) and Standard   Poor s ( S P ), two of the major rating agencies. The rating agencies regularly evaluate the Company and its subsidiaries, and
their ratings of the Company s and its subsidiaries  long-term and short-term debt are based on a number of factors, including their financial strength as well as factors not entirely within their control, including conditions affecting
the financial services industry generally, and the wider state of the economy. There can be no assurance that the Company and its subsidiaries will maintain their current respective ratings. Failure to maintain those ratings could, among other
things, adversely limit our access to the capital markets and adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which the Company and its subsidiaries are able to obtain funding.      We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take. As with other companies in the financial services industry, the Company s and
its subsidiaries  ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any of the rating agencies.        Adverse currency
fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could decrease revenue we receive from our international operations.        During
2009, over 32% of our revenue net of interest expense was generated from activities outside the United States. We are exposed to foreign exchange risk from our international operations, and some of the revenue we generate outside the United States
is subject to unpredictable and indeterminate fluctuations if the
        
   69   

Table of Contents  

values of other currencies change relative to the U.S. dollar. Resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. Furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control
regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into U.S. dollars. The occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could decrease the revenues we receive from our international operations and have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations.       Legal and Regulatory Risks         The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 will significantly impact our business practices and could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations.        The CARD Act requires the Company to make fundamental changes to many of
our current business practices, including marketing, underwriting, pricing and billing. Among other things, the CARD Act prohibits an issuer from increasing the APR on outstanding balances (with limited exceptions), requires additional account
disclosures, provides consumers with the right to opt out of significant changes to account terms, and restricts penalty fees and charges that may be imposed by an issuer.      Most of the requirements of the CARD Act become effective in February 2010. Additional amendments to Regulation Z revising the open-end
credit disclosure requirements become effective on July 1, 2010. Two provisions of the CARD Act do not come into effect until August 22, 2010. One of these provisions addresses the reasonableness and proportionality of penalty fees
charged. The other provision requires issuers to evaluate past interest rate increases twice per year. The Federal Reserve is required to adopt regulations implementing these provisions, but has not yet done so. Because implementing regulations are
not final, it is difficult to assess the impact of these two provisions. However, the regulations implementing these provisions could have a significant impact on our results of our operations.      While the Company is making certain changes to its product terms and practices that are designed to mitigate the impact of the changes
required by the CARD Act, there is no assurance that it will be successful. The long-term impact of the CARD Act on the Company s business practices and revenues will depend upon a number of factors, including its ability to successfully
implement its business strategies, consumer behavior and the actions of the Company s competitors, which are difficult to predict at this time. If the Company is not able to lessen the impact of the changes required by the CARD Act, it will
have a material adverse effect on results of operations.        Proposed legislative and regulatory reforms could, if enacted or adopted,
result in our business becoming subject to significant and extensive additional regulations, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.        The extreme disruptions in the capital markets since mid-2007 and the resulting instability and failure of numerous financial institutions
have led to numerous proposals for legislative and regulatory reform that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry and that may significantly impact the Company. These proposals include the following:

Establishing a federal consumer financial protection agency that would have, among other things, broad authority to regulate, and take enforcement
actions against, providers of credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services.          

Requiring heightened scrutiny and stricter regulation of any financial institution whose combination of size, leverage and interconnectedness could
pose a threat to financial stability if it failed, restricting the activities of such institutions, and allowing regulators to dismantle large or systemically important banks and financial institutions, even healthy ones, if they are considered a
grave risk to the economy.            
   70   

Table of Contents  

Requiring large financial institutions, including, as proposed, American Express, to contribute to a fund that would be used to recover the cost of
dismantling a bank or financial institution that is dismantled because it poses a grave risk to the economy.          

Changing requirements for the securitization market, including requiring sponsors of securitizations to retain a material economic interest in the
credit risk associated with the underlying securitization, as well as enhanced disclosure requirements for asset securitizations.          

Tightening controls on the ability of banking institutions to engage in transactions with affiliates.          

Assessing financial institutions with over $50 billion in consolidated assets, including, as proposed, American Express, with a  financial crisis
responsibility fee  assessed at approximately 0.15% of total assets (less Tier 1 capital and less FDIC-assessed deposits). The fee as proposed would last for at least the next ten years and has been proposed for the purpose of recovering
projected losses from the Troubled Asset Relief Program.          

Limiting the size and activities of financial institutions, including proposals to repeal portions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.

Amending regulatory capital standards, and increasing regulatory capital requirements, for banks and other financial institutions, including American
Express and its insured depository institution subsidiaries, and establishing new formulaic liquidity requirements applicable to financial institutions, including those proposals described above under  Supervision and Regulation Proposed
Capital and Liquidity Requirements  on pages 38-39.          

Establishing heightened standards for and increased scrutiny of compensation policies at financial institutions, including those proposals described
above under  Supervision and Regulations Compensation Practices  on pages 44-45.         Lawmakers
and regulators in the United States and worldwide continue to consider these and a number of other wide-ranging and comprehensive proposals for altering the structure, regulation and competitive relationships of the nation s financial
institutions. For example, separate comprehensive financial reform bills were introduced in both houses of Congress in the second half of 2009, and the U.S. House of Representatives passed a financial reform bill in December of 2009, but similar
action has not been taken by the U.S. Senate.      In addition to proposed legislation effecting the financial services industry,
our results of operations could be adversely impacted by other legislative action or inaction, including the potential failure of the U.S. Congress to extend the active financing exception to Subpart F of the Internal Revenue Code, which could
increase our effective tax rate and have an adverse impact on our net income.      We cannot predict the final form, or effects on
American Express, of these or other potential or proposed reforms. These and other potential or proposed legislative and regulatory changes could impact the profitability of the Company s business activities, limit our ability to pursue
business opportunities, require the Company to change certain of its business practices or alter its relationships with customers, affect retention of key Company personnel, or expose the Company to additional costs (including increased compliance
costs). Such changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.      Please see  Supervision and Regulation  on pages   35-45 for more information about the regulation to which we are subject.
           Potential actions by the FDIC and the rating agencies could impact the Company s ABS program.        The credit rating agencies are assessing the potential impact of the adoption of recently issued accounting standards for transfers of
financial assets and for consolidation of variable interest entities (the  New Accounting Standards ) on credit ratings of the securities issued by securitization trusts within the overall asset-backed
        
   71   

Table of Contents  

securities market. (The New Accounting Standards, previously issued as FASB Statements Nos. 166 and 167, are discussed further in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which you can
find on page 76 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders and which is incorporated herein by reference.) In particular, the agencies are assessing the FDIC s safe harbor rule relating to the FDIC s treatment of securitized assets in the
event of a sponsoring financial institution s receivership or conservatorship. Pursuant to the safe harbor rule, the FDIC will not reclaim any financial asset transferred in connection with a securitization, provided that such transfer meets
all conditions for GAAP sale accounting. Although the FDIC extended, on an interim basis, the safe harbor rule to some transfers of financial assets in connection with securitizations where the transfer will no longer qualify for sale accounting
treatment under GAAP as a result of the New Accounting Standards, the Company cannot predict how the FDIC will act and whether or to what extent the safe harbor rule might apply in the future. Because the adoption of the New Accounting Standards may
cause some asset transfers to securitization trusts to no longer be deemed asset sales for accounting purposes within a company s consolidated group, the rating agencies have indicated that they may ultimately conclude that the safe harbor no
longer applies and, in certain cases, that the highest rating an ABS security could receive would be based on the sponsoring bank s unsecured debt rating, rather than relying on their separate evaluation of the securitization trust.
Accordingly, the ability of the Company s securitization programs to receive or maintain AAA ratings on ABS securities under the same terms and conditions as it has done in the past, or at all, is subject to uncertainty. Any action by the
rating agencies as described above could adversely impact the Company s ability to utilize ABS as a source of funding for its business.        Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by increases in FDIC deposit insurance assessments.        FDIC deposit insurance assessments have become considerably higher recently because market developments have significantly depleted the FDIC deposit insurance fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to
insured deposits. The failure of additional insured depository institutions could result in further depletion of the deposit insurance fund. Assessments may continue to increase, and special assessments may be levied, until the value of the fund has
returned to levels the FDIC determines appropriate. We generally cannot control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, the FDIC will increase deposit insurance assessments
further or whether the FDIC will levy additional special assessments. Further increase in assessments, or imposition of special assessments, by the FDIC could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
       Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by new regulation and supervision to which we
are subject as a result of becoming a bank holding company.        On November 14, 2008, American Express Company and
TRS each became bank holding companies under the BHC Act and have elected to be treated as financial holding companies under the BHC Act. As a result of becoming a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve, including,
without limitation, consolidated capital regulation at the holding company level, maintenance of certain capital and management standards in connection with our two U.S. depository institutions and restrictions on our non-banking activities under
the Federal Reserve s regulations. For additional information about this change in regulatory status, please see  Supervision and Regulation General  beginning on page 35 above.      If we fail to satisfy regulatory requirements applicable to bank holding companies, our financial condition and results of operations could
be adversely affected.        We are subject to restrictions that limit our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our capital stock.
       We are limited in our ability to pay dividends by our regulators who could prohibit a dividend that would be
considered an unsafe or unsound banking practice. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if
        
   72   

Table of Contents  

prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization s expected future needs, asset quality, and financial condition. For more information on bank holding company dividend
restrictions, please see  Financial Review Share Repurchases and Dividends  on page 40 and Note 23 on page 119 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.        Banks, card issuers and card network operators generally are the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may impose costly new compliance
burdens on our Company and lead to decreased transaction volumes and revenues through our network.        We are subject to
regulations that affect banks and the payments industry in the United States and many other countries in which our charge and credit Cards are used and where we conduct banking and Card activities. In particular, we are subject to numerous
regulations applicable to financial institutions in the United States and abroad. We are also subject to regulations as a provider of services to financial institutions. Regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent
years. For example, we are subject to certain provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act as amended by the Patriot Act, with regard to maintaining effective anti-money laundering programs. Increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional
obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products and services we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our charge and credit Cards may be used, and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our charge
and credit Cards. In addition, the European Union has adopted a new legislative directive, called the Payment Services Directive, for electronic payment services, including cards, that puts in place a common legal framework for licensing and
supervision of payment services providers, including card issuers and merchant acquirers, and for their conduct of business.      The U.S. Congress is also presently considering, or may consider, legislative initiatives in the area of Internet transactions, such as Internet prescription drug purchases and copyright and trademark infringement, among others, that could
impose additional compliance burdens on our Company. Federal and state law enforcement authorities have also contacted payment companies concerning these issues. If implemented, these initiatives may require us to monitor, filter, restrict, or
otherwise oversee various categories of charge and credit card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes. Various regulatory agencies and legislatures are also considering regulations and legislation covering
identity theft, account management guidelines, disclosure rules, security, and marketing that would impact us directly, in part due to increased scrutiny of our underwriting standards. These new requirements may restrict our ability to issue charge
and credit cards or partner with other financial institutions, which could decrease our transaction volumes. In some circumstances, new regulations and legislation could have the effect of limiting our ability to offer new types of charge or credit
cards or restricting our ability to offer existing Cards, such as stored value cards, which could materially and adversely reduce our revenues and revenue growth.      In recent years, regulators in several countries outside the United States have focused on the fees involved in the operation of card networks, including interchange fees paid to card issuers and the fees
merchants are charged to accept cards. Regulators in the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, Poland, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Hungary, the European Union (EU), Australia, Brazil, Mexico, and Venezuela, among others, have conducted
investigations that are either ongoing or on appeal. The interchange fee, which is the collectively set fee paid by the bankcard merchant acquirer to the card issuing bank in  four party  payment networks, like Visa and MasterCard, is
generally the largest component of the merchant service charge charged to merchants for bankcard debit and credit card acceptance in these systems. By contrast, the American Express network does not have collectively set interchange fees. Although
the regulators  focus has primarily been on Visa and MasterCard as the dominant card networks and on their operations on a multilateral basis, antitrust actions and government regulation of the bankcard associations  pricing could
ultimately affect all networks. Lower interchange and/or merchant discount revenue may lead card issuers to look for other sources of revenue such as higher annual card fees or interest charges, as well as to reduce costs by scaling back or
eliminating rewards programs.         
   73   

Table of Contents  

   In the United States, Congress continues to debate the interchange issue. There have been
several hearings on Visa/MasterCard interchange over the last several years, and in 2009 at the request of Congress, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) completed a study on the structure of interchange fees and their impact on consumers and
merchants. The report provides a balanced view of the interchange issue and explains how large merchants would benefit and how consumers could be harmed by the pending legislative proposals. In 2009, legislation was reintroduced in Congress that
would give all U.S. merchants antitrust immunity to negotiate collectively the price and terms of card acceptance on networks. The House Judiciary Committee bill covers networks with at least a 20% share of U.S. credit and debit card payments
combined, which would not apply to the American Express network but, if enacted, would have an effect on American Express in the marketplace. The Senate version of the bill covers networks with at least 10% of U.S. credit or debit payments, which
would apply to American Express. Both bills have a default process for having prices and terms set through government action rather than competitive forces. A similar version of the House bill (the  Credit Card Fair Fee Act ) was passed in
the House Judiciary Committee in 2008. No action was taken on either of these bills in 2009. The House Financial Services Committee held a hearing on a third piece of interchange-related legislation that was reintroduced in 2009 (the  Credit
Card Interchange Fees Act ), a bill that would regulate payment network rules, including the American Express network. No further action was taken on this bill. It is expected that Congressional hearings will continue in 2010 on the interchange
issue. The Federal Reserve and various Federal Reserve Banks have been following developments on interchange and have held several conferences focused on interchange rates. While the Federal Reserve has expressed interest in monitoring this issue,
it has not indicated the need to regulate interchange rates in the United States.      Increased regulatory focus on our Company,
such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may increase our compliance costs or result in a reduction of transactions processed on our networks or merchant discount revenues from such transactions, which could materially and adversely
impact our results of operations.        If we are not able to protect our intellectual property, and invest successfully in, and compete at
the leading edge of, technological developments across all our businesses, our revenue and profitability could be negatively affected.        Our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes. In order to compete in our industry, we need to continue to invest in business process and technology advances across all areas of
our business, including in transaction processing, data management, customer interactions and communications, travel reservations systems, prepaid products, alternative payment mechanisms and risk management and compliance systems. We rely in part
on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new
technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our Cards, networks and other services. Our ability to develop, acquire, or access competitive technologies or business processes on acceptable terms may be
limited by patent rights that third parties, including competitors and potential competitors, may assert. In addition, our ability to adopt new technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards or by resistance from
Cardmembers or merchants to such changes.      We rely on a variety of measures to protect our intellectual property and
proprietary information, including copyrights, trademarks, patents and controls on access and distribution. These measures may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary information and a resulting loss
of competitive advantage. In addition, competitors or other third parties may allege that our systems, processes or technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. Given the complex, rapidly changing and competitive technological and
business environment in which we operate and the potential risks and uncertainties of intellectual property related litigation, we cannot assure you that a future assertion of an infringement claim against us will not cause us to lose significant
revenues, incur significant license, royalty or technology development expenses, or pay significant monetary damages.         
   74   

Table of Contents  

     Regulation in the areas of privacy and data security could increase our costs and decrease the number
of charge and credit cards issued.        We are subject to regulations related to privacy and data security/breach, and we
could be negatively impacted by these regulations. For example, in the United States, we are subject to the data security rule under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The data security rule requires that each financial institution develop, implement, and
maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution s size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution s activities, and the
sensitivity of any customer information at issue.      Further, a growing number of states, including, notably, Massachusetts and
Nevada, have adopted broad-ranging data security regulations regarding the protection of customer and employee data that could result in higher compliance and technology costs for the Company, as well as potentially significant fines and penalties
for non-compliance.      Many foreign jurisdictions in which we operate are also expanding the scope of their data security
requirements and standards, as well as increasing enforcement activity in this area. In 1995, the European Parliament and Council passed European Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and
on the free movement of such data (commonly referred to as the Data Protection Directive), which obligates the controller of an individual s personal data to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. The
Data Protection Directive has been implemented through local laws regulating data protection in European Union Member States. As these laws expand throughout the European Union where we have a significant commercial presence, compliance costs are
increasing, particularly in the context of ensuring that adequate data privacy protections and data transfer mechanisms are in place.      In addition to the foregoing enhanced data security requirements, various federal banking regulatory agencies, and as many as 45 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, have enacted data breach regulations and
laws requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a security breach. Data breach laws are also becoming more prevalent in other parts of the world where we operate, including Japan, Mexico and Germany. In many countries that
have yet to impose automatic data breach notification requirements, regulators have increasingly used the threat of significant sanctions and penalties by data protection authorities to encourage voluntary notification and discourage data breaches.
Many of these regulations also apply broadly to retailers/merchants that accept our cards; thus, to the extent they experience data security breaches, this presents additional risks for American Express and our Cardmembers. The heightened
legislative and regulatory focus on data privacy and security, including requiring consumer notification in the event of a data breach, continues. The current 111th Congress will likely consider data security/data breach legislation in 2010 that, if
implemented, could present new risks and costs for us.      We continue to seek ways to minimize these risks and costs internally
by improving our own data privacy and security policies and practices, and externally through regular improvements to the PCI Data Security Standard and by placing strong contractual obligations on retailers/merchants that accept our Cards, as well
as on our service providers, relating to data security and data breach. Still, increased regulation and enforcement activity throughout the world in the areas of data privacy and data security/breach may materially increase our costs and may
decrease the number of our Cards that we issue, or restrict our ability to fully exploit our closed-loop capability, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Our failure to comply with the privacy and data security/breach laws
and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions, and damage to our global reputation and our brand.        Our
success is dependent, in part, upon our executive officers and other key personnel, and the loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our business.        Our success depends, in part, on our executive officers and other key personnel. Our senior management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. Our senior management
team is
        
   75   

Table of Contents  

relatively small and we believe we are in a critical period of competition in the financial services and payments industry. The market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, and we may
not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel or candidates to replace or succeed members of our senior management team or other key personnel. As further described in  Supervision and Regulation Compensation Practices  on
pages 44-45, our compensation practices are subject to review and oversight by the Federal Reserve. As a large financial and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on compensation practices, which may or may not affect our
competitors, by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC or other regulators worldwide. These limitations, including any incentive compensation policies, could further affect our ability to attract and retain our executive officers and other key personnel. The
loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our business.        Litigation and regulatory actions could subject us to significant
fines, penalties and/or requirements resulting in increased expenses.        Businesses in the credit card industry have
historically been subject to significant legal actions, including class action lawsuits and patent claims. Many of these actions have included claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages. In addition, we may be involved in various
actions or proceedings brought by governmental regulatory agencies in the event of noncompliance with laws or regulations, which could subject us to significant fines, penalties or other requirements resulting in increased expenses and damage to our
global reputation and our brand.       Business Risks         Our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the payments industry.        The payments industry is highly competitive and includes, in addition to charge and credit card networks, evolving alternative payment
mechanisms and systems. We are the third largest general-purpose charge and credit card network based on charge volume, behind Visa and MasterCard, which are larger than we are in most markets. As a result, other card issuers may be able to benefit
from the strong position and marketing and pricing power of Visa and MasterCard. Because of continuing consolidations among banking and financial services companies and credit card portfolio acquisitions by major card issuers, there are now a
smaller number of significant issuers. Continuing consolidation in the banking industry may result in a financial institution with a strong relationship with us being acquired by an institution that has a strong relationship with a competitor,
resulting in a potential loss of business for us. The largest competing issuers have continued to grow, in several cases by acquiring card portfolios, and also by cross-selling through their retail branch networks, and competition among all issuers
remains intense. We are also subject to increasing pricing pressure from our competitors.      In addition, some of our
competitors have developed, or may develop, substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve
broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. We may not continue to be able to compete effectively against these threats.      Our competitors may also be more efficient in introducing innovative products, programs and services than we are. Spending on our Cards could be impacted by consumer usage of debit cards, as we do not
currently issue point-of-sale debit cards for use on the American Express Network. In fact, the purchase volume and number of transactions made with debit cards in the United States has grown more rapidly than credit and charge card transactions. In
addition, to the extent alternative payment mechanisms and systems, such as aggregators, continue to successfully expand in the online payments space, our merchant revenues and our ability to access transaction data through our closed-loop network
could be negatively impacted.      Regulators have recently put forward various proposals that may impact our businesses,
including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions, and proposals to impose taxes or fees on certain financial institutions. These or
similar proposals, which may not apply to all of our competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively.         
   76   

Table of Contents  

     We face increasingly intense competitive pressure that may impact the prices we charge merchants who
accept our Cards for payment for goods and services.        Unlike our competitors in the payments industry that rely on high
revolving credit balances to drive profits, our business model is focused on Cardmember spending. Discount revenue, which represents fees charged to merchants when Cardmembers use their Cards to purchase goods and services on our network, is
primarily driven by billed business volumes and is our largest single revenue source. In recent years, we have been under market pressure to reduce merchant discount rates and undertake other repricing initiatives. This pressure arises, in part, due
to the regulatory pressure on our competitors outside the United States, which has been increasing. If we continue to experience a decline in the average merchant discount rate we charge merchants or are unable to sustain premium merchant discount
rates on our Cards without experiencing overall volume growth or an increase in merchant coverage, our revenues and profitability could be materially and adversely affected.        We may not be successful in our efforts to promote Card usage through our marketing, promotion and rewards programs or to effectively control the costs of such programs, both of which may impact our
profitability.        Our business is characterized by the high level of spending by our Cardmembers. Increasing consumer and
business spending and borrowing on our payment services products, particularly credit and charge Cards and Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products, and growth in Card lending balances, depend in part on our ability to develop and issue new or
enhanced Card and prepaid products and increase revenues from such products. One of the ways in which we attract new Cardmembers, reduce Cardmember attrition and seek to capture a greater share of customers  total spending on Cards issued on
our network, both in the United States and in our international operations, is through our Membership Rewards program, as well as other Cardmember benefits. We may not be able to cost effectively manage and expand Cardmember benefits, including
containing the growth of marketing, promotion and rewards expenses and Cardmember services expenses. In addition, many credit card issuers have instituted rewards and co-brand programs that are similar to ours, and issuers may in the future
institute programs that are more attractive to cardmembers than our programs.      Our ability to continue to invest in marketing,
promotion and rewards programs, as well as our overall profitability, may be negatively impacted if we are unable to replace the payments provided to us under our previously disclosed litigation settlements with Visa and MasterCard once the
aggregate settlement amounts have been paid in full through the fourth and second quarters of 2011, respectively.        Our brand and
reputation are key assets of our Company, and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace.        Our brand and its attributes are key assets of the Company. Our ability to attract and retain consumer Cardmembers and corporate clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our level of service, trustworthiness, business
practices and financial condition. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters could damage our reputation among existing and potential Cardmembers and corporate clients, which could make it difficult for us to attract new Cardmembers
and maintain existing ones. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. Although we monitor
developments for areas of potential risk to our reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability.        An increase in account data breaches and fraudulent activity using our Cards could lead to reputational damage to our brand and could reduce the use and acceptance of our charge and credit Cards.
       We and other third parties store Cardmember account information in connection with our charge and credit Cards.
Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture various types of information relating to Cardmembers  accounts, including Membership Rewards accounts, to engage in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft. As
outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable and common way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our Cards. If data breaches or fraud levels involving our Cards
were to rise, it could lead to regulatory intervention
        
   77   

Table of Contents  

(such as mandatory card reissuance) and reputational and financial damage to our brand, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our Cards, and have a material adverse impact on our business.
       We have agreements with business partners in a variety of industries, including the airline industry, that represent a significant
portion of our business. We are exposed to risks associated with these industries, including bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations and alliances of our partners, and the possible obligation to make payments to our partners.
       In the ordinary course of our business we enter into different types of contractual arrangements with business
partners in a variety of industries. For example, we have partnered with Costco and Delta Air Lines to offer co-branded cards for consumers and small businesses, and through our Membership Rewards program we have partnered with businesses in many
industries, most notably the airline industry, to offer benefits to Cardmember participants. The airline industry represents a significant portion of our billed business and in recent years has undergone bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations
and other similar events. In addition, under some types of these contractual arrangements, upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, we may be obligated to make payments to certain co-brand partners, merchants, vendors and customers. If we
are not able to effectively manage the triggering events, we could unexpectedly have to make payments to these partners, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, we have credit risk to
certain co-brand partners relating to our prepayments for loyalty program points that will not be fully redeemed for multi-year periods. We are also exposed to risk from bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events that may
occur in any industry representing a significant portion of our billed business, which could negatively impact particular card products and services (and billed business generally) and our financial condition and results of operations. For example,
we could be materially impacted if we were obligated to or elected to reimburse Cardmembers for products and services purchased from merchants that are bankrupt or have ceased operations.      There could be continued significant consolidation in the airline industry, particularly in the United States, through mergers and/or grants
of antitrust immunity to airline alliances and joint ventures. The United States Department of Transportation has granted antitrust immunity to members of the Skyteam Alliance and the Star Alliance, enabling them to closely coordinate their
international operations and to launch highly integrated joint ventures in transatlantic and other markets. The Department of Transportation has granted preliminary approval of a similar request by members of the Oneworld Alliance for antitrust
immunity. Among other things, this immunity permits alliance members to jointly price and manage capacity on covered routes, share revenues and costs, and coordinate sales and corporate contracts, outside of the scope of the antitrust laws. The
European Commission s review of each of these alliances is continuing. Increasing consolidation and expanded antitrust immunity could create challenges for our relationships with the airlines including by reducing our profitability on our
airline business. Airlines are also some of the most important and valuable partners in our Membership Rewards program. If a participating airline merged with an airline that did not participate in Membership Rewards, the combined airline would have
to determine whether or not to continue participation. Similarly, if one of our co-brand airline partners merged with an airline that had a competing co-brand card, the combined airline would have to determine which co-brand cards it would offer. If
a surviving airline determined to withdraw from Membership Rewards or to cease offering an American Express co-brand card, our business could be adversely affected. For additional information relating to the agreements with Delta and general risks
related to the airline industry, see  Financial Review Exposure to Airline Industry  on page 60 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is hereby incorporated by reference.        Our reengineering and other cost control initiatives may not prove successful, and we may not realize all or a significant portion of the benefits we
intended.        We have regularly undertaken, and are currently undertaking, a variety of efforts to reengineer our business
operations in order to achieve cost savings and other benefits (including the reinvestment of such savings in key areas such as marketing, promotion, rewards and infrastructure), enhance revenue-generating opportunities and
        
   78   

Table of Contents  

improve our operating expense to revenue ratio both in the short-term and over time. These efforts include cost management, structural and strategic measures such as vendor, process, facilities
and operations consolidation, outsourcing functions (including, among others, technologies operations), relocating certain functions to lower cost overseas locations, moving internal and external functions to the Internet to save costs and planned
staff reductions relating to certain of these reengineering actions. If we do not successfully achieve these efforts in a timely manner or if we are not able to capitalize on these efforts, including the ability of the Global Services Group to
generate an annualized level of gross expense savings of approximately $500 million by 2012, we may not realize all or a significant portion of the benefits we intended. Failure to achieve these benefits could have a negative effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.        Our risk management policies and procedures may not be effective.        We must effectively manage credit risk related to consumer debt, business loans, settlement risk with regard to GNS partners, merchant
bankruptcies, the rate of bankruptcies, and other credit trends that can affect spending on Card products, debt payments by individual and corporate customers and businesses that accept our Card products.      Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default. We are exposed to both consumer credit risk, principally from
Cardmember receivables and our other consumer lending activities, and institutional credit risk from merchants, GNS partners and GCC clients. Third parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational
failure or other reasons. Country, regional and political risks are components of credit risk. Rising delinquencies and rising rates of bankruptcy are often precursors of future write-offs and may require us to increase our reserve for loan losses.
Higher write-off rates and an increase in our reserve for loan losses adversely affect our profitability and the performance of our securitizations, and may increase our cost of funds.      Although we make estimates to provide for credit losses in our outstanding portfolio of loans and receivables, these estimates may not be
accurate. In addition, the information we use in managing our credit risk may be inaccurate or incomplete. Although we regularly review our credit exposure to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that
we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to foresee or detect, such as fraud. We may also fail to receive full information with respect to the credit risks of our customers.
     We must also effectively manage market risk to which we are exposed. Market risk represents the loss in value of portfolios
and financial instruments due to adverse changes in market variables. We are exposed to market risk from interest rates in our Card business and in our investment portfolios. Changes in the interest rates at which we borrow and lend money affect the
value of our assets and liabilities. If the rate of interest we pay on our borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans, our net interest yield, and consequently our net income, could fall.      We must also accurately estimate the fair value of the assets in our investment portfolio and, in particular, those investments that are not
readily marketable.      Additionally, we must effectively manage liquidity risk to which we are exposed. Liquidity risk is
defined as the inability to access cash and equivalents needed to meet business requirements and satisfy our obligations. If we are unsuccessful in managing our liquidity risk, we may maintain too much liquidity, which can be costly and limit
financial flexibility, or we may be too illiquid, which could result in financial distress during a liquidity event. For additional information regarding our management of liquidity risk, see  Adverse capital and credit market conditions may
significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital  above.      Finally, we must
also manage the operational risks to which we are exposed. We consider operational risk to be the risk of not achieving our business objectives due to failed processes, people or information systems, or from the external environment, such as natural
disasters. Operational risks include the risk that we may not
        
   79   

Table of Contents  

comply with specific regulatory or legal requirements, exposing us to fines and/or penalties and possibly brand damage; employee error or intentional misconduct that results in a material
financial misstatement; or a failure to monitor an outsource partner s compliance with a service level agreement, resulting in economic harm to us.      Although we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future, our hedging strategies and other risk management
techniques may not be fully effective. See    Financial Review Risk Management  on pages   47-49 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders for a discussion of the policies and procedures we use to identify, monitor and
manage the risks we assume in conducting our businesses. Management of credit, market and operational risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these
policies and procedures may not be fully effective.        An inability to accept or maintain deposits due to market demand or regulatory
constraints could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business.        As an
additional source of funding, our banking subsidiaries offer deposits to individuals through brokerage networks as well as directly to consumers.      As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $26.3 billion in total customer deposits, a large portion of which was raised through brokerage networks. Many other financial services firms are
increasing their use of deposit funding, and as such we may experience increased competition in the deposit markets, particularly as to brokerage networks. We cannot predict how this increased competition will affect deposit renewal rates, costs or
availability. If we are required to offer higher interest rates to attract or maintain deposits, our funding costs will be adversely impacted.      Our ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive interest rates on deposits is also dependent on capital levels of our bank subsidiaries. The FDIA generally prohibits a bank, including our
banking subsidiaries, from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless
(1) it is well-capitalized or (2) it is adequately capitalized and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A bank that is adequately capitalized generally may not pay an interest rate on any deposit, including direct-to-consumer deposits, in
excess of 75 basis points over the national rate published by the FDIC. There are no such restrictions on a bank that is well-capitalized (provided such bank is not subject to a capital maintenance provision within a written agreement, consent
order, order to cease and desist, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive issued by its federal regulator). While we met the FDIC s definition of  well-capitalized  as of December 31, 2008 and December 31,
2009, there can be no assurance that we will continue to meet this definition. Additionally, our regulators can adjust the requirements to be well-capitalized at any time and have authority to place limitations on our deposit businesses, including
the interest rate we pay on deposits. An inability to attract or maintain deposits in the future could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business.        If our global network systems are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions efficiently or at all, our revenue and profitability would be
materially reduced.        Our transaction authorization, clearing and settlement systems may experience service
interruptions as a result of fire, natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism or accident. A natural disaster or other problem at our facilities could interrupt our services.
Additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global network. If a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster,
operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our brands  reliability and materially reduce our revenue and profitability.         
   80   

Table of Contents  

     We rely on third-party providers of various computer systems and other services integral to the
operations of our businesses. These third parties may act in ways that could harm our business.        We operate a service
network around the world. In order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors many of the computer systems and other services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses. A significant amount
of this outsourcing occurs in developing countries. We are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. In addition, the
management of multiple third-party vendors increases our operational complexity and decreases our control. It is also possible that the cost efficiencies of certain outsourcings will decrease as the demand for these services increases around the
world.       Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements       We have made various statements in this Report that may constitute  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking
statements may also be made in our other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, in our press releases and in other documents. In addition, from time to time, we, through our management, may make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking
statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those identified above, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements. The words  believe,   expect,   anticipate, 
 optimistic,   intend,   plan,   aim,   will,   may,   should,   could,   would,   likely  and similar expressions are intended to identify
forward-looking statements. We caution you that the risk factors described above are not exclusive. There may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in
forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking
statements.       

ITEM 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS         Not applicable.       

I  TEM 2.   
   PROPERTIES         Our principal
executive offices are in a 51-story, 2.2 million square foot building located in lower Manhattan. This building, which is on land leased from the Battery Park City Authority for a term expiring in 2069, is one of four office buildings in a
complex known as the World Financial Center. We have a 49% ownership interest in the building. Brookfield Financial Properties owns the remaining 51% interest in the building. We also lease space in the building from Brookfield.      Other owned or leased principal locations include: the American Express Service Centers in Fort Lauderdale, Florida; Phoenix, Arizona;
Greensboro, North Carolina; and Salt Lake City, Utah; the American Express Data Centers in Phoenix, Arizona and in Minneapolis, Minnesota; the American Express Finance Center in Phoenix, Arizona; the headquarters for American Express Services Europe
Limited in London, England; the Amex Canada Inc. headquarters in Markham, Ontario, Canada; and service centers located in Mexico City, Mexico; Sydney, Australia; Gurgaon, India and Brighton, United Kingdom.      During 2004 and 2005, we engaged in several sale-leaseback transactions pursuant to which we sold various owned properties to third parties
and leased back the properties under long-term net leases whereby each American Express entity that leases back the property is responsible for all costs and expenses relating to the property (including maintenance, repair, utilities, operating
expenses and insurance costs) in addition to annual rent. The sale-leaseback transactions have not materially impacted our financial results in any year. Gains resulting from completed sale and leaseback transactions are amortized over the initial
ten-year lease periods. We continue to consider whether sale-leaseback transactions are appropriate for other properties that we currently own.         
   81   

Table of Contents  

   Generally, we lease the premises we occupy in other locations. We believe that the
facilities we own or occupy suit our needs and are well maintained.       

ITEM 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS         The
Company and its subsidiaries are involved in a number of legal and arbitration proceedings, including class actions, concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of their respective business activities. The Company believes it has
meritorious defenses to each of these actions and intends to defend them vigorously. In the course of its business, the Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to governmental examinations, information gathering requests, subpoenas, inquiries
and investigations. The Company believes that it is not a party to, nor are any of its properties the subject of, any pending legal, arbitration, regulatory, tax or investigative proceedings that would have a material adverse effect on the
Company s consolidated financial condition or liquidity. However, it is possible that the outcome of any such proceeding could have a material impact on results of operations in any particular reporting period as the proceedings are resolved.
Certain legal proceedings involving the Company are described below.       Corporate Matters       Beginning in mid-July 2002, 12 putative class action lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District
of New York. In October 2002, these cases were consolidated under the caption  In re American Express Company Securities Litigation . These lawsuits allege violations of the federal securities laws and the common law in connection
with alleged misstatements regarding certain investments in high-yield bonds and write-downs in the 2000-2001 timeframe. The purported class covers the period from July 26, 1999 to July 17, 2001. The actions seek unspecified
compensatory damages as well as disgorgement, punitive damages, attorneys  fees and costs, and interest. On March 31, 2004, the Court granted the Company s motion to dismiss the lawsuit. Plaintiffs appealed the dismissal to
the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. In August 2006, the Court of Appeals, without expressing any views whatsoever on the merits of the cases, vacated the District Court s judgment and remanded all claims to the
District Court for further proceedings. Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on January 5, 2007. The Company subsequently filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint, which motion was granted in September 2008. Plaintiffs
have appealed the dismissal.      On November 24, 2009, a putative class action captioned  Amick v. American Express Travel
Related Services Co. , was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking to recover unpaid wages and overtime compensation at one of the Company s call centers. The Plaintiff seeks to represent all similarly
situated employees in a collective action under the Fair Labor Standards Act ( FLSA ) and in a Rule 23 class action under the North Carolina Wage and Hour Act. On January 26, 2010, the Court granted the Company s motion to
transfer the case to the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina.      In May 2008, a
shareholders  derivative suit was filed in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan naming American Express Company and certain current and former directors and senior executives as defendants. The case captioned as  City of Tallahassee
Retirement System v. Akerson et al.  alleges breaches of fiduciary duty  arising from knowing breaches of fiduciary obligations by certain current and former officers and directors of the Company that have led to the imposition of deferred
criminal charges on a bank that at the time such charges were entered was owned by American Express, as well as the Company s payment of approximately $65 million in penalties to federal and state regulators  related to American Express
Bank Limited s (AEBL) and TRS s anti-money laundering programs. The complaint also states that the sale of AEBL took place after American Express had  allowed the value of its banking business unit to be dramatically impaired on
account of the systemic violations of law and resulting deferred criminal charges.  The complaint seeks monetary damages on behalf of the Company. The defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint and in October 2009, the Court
dismissed the complaint against all defendants. The plaintiff has filed a Notice of Appeal of the dismissal.         
   82   

Table of Contents  

   In December 2008, a putative class action captioned  Obester v. American Express Company,
et. al.  was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint alleges that the defendants violated certain ERISA obligations by: allowing the investment of American Express Retirement Savings Plan
assets in American Express common stock when American Express common stock was not a prudent investment; misrepresenting and failing to disclose material facts to Plan participants in connection with the administration of the Plan; and breaching
certain fiduciary obligations. The Company is also a defendant in three other putative class actions making allegations similar to those made in the Obester matter:  Tang v. American Express Company, et. al. , filed on December 29, 2008 in
the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York,  Miner v. American Express Company et. al. , filed on February 4, 2009 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and  DiLorenzo v.
American Express Company et. al. , filed on February 10, 2009 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. American Express has filed a motion to dismiss these actions. In April 2009, these actions were
consolidated into a Consolidated Amended complaint, captioned  In Re American Express ERISA Litigation . American Express  motion to dismiss this action is pending with the Court.      On February 20, 2009, a putative class action captioned,  Brozovich v. American Express Co., Kenneth I. Chenault and Daniel T.
Henry , was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The lawsuit alleged violations of the federal securities laws in connection with certain alleged misstatements regarding the credit quality of the
Company s credit card customers. The purported class covered the period from March 1, 2007 to November 12, 2008. The action sought unspecified damages and costs and fees. The Brozovich action was subsequently
voluntarily dismissed. On March 27, 2009, a putative class action, captioned  Baydale v. American Express Co., Kenneth I. Chenault and Daniel Henry , which makes similar allegations to those made in the Brozovich action, was filed in
the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. On October 13, 2009, plaintiff in the Baydale action filed an Amended Consolidated Class Action Complaint in the action. The Company has filed a motion to dismiss and that
motion is pending with the Court.       U.S. Card Services and Global Merchant Services Matters       Beginning July 2003 the Company has been named in a number of putative class actions in which the plaintiffs allege an unlawful antitrust
tying arrangement between certain of the Company s charge cards and credit cards in violation of various state and federal laws. These cases have since all been consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York under
the caption:   In re American Express Merchants  Litigation  . A case making similar allegations was also filed in the Southern District of New York in July 2004 captioned:  The Marcus Corporation v. American Express
Company et al. , The Marcus case is not consolidated. The plaintiffs in these actions seek injunctive relief and an unspecified amount of damages. On April 30, 2004, the Company filed a motion to dismiss all the actions filed prior to
the date of its motion. On March 15, 2006, that motion was granted, with the Court finding the claims of the plaintiffs to be subject to arbitration. Plaintiffs asked the Court to reconsider its dismissal. That request was
denied. The plaintiffs appealed the Court s arbitration ruling and on January 30, 2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the District Court. The Company has filed with the United States Supreme
Court a petition of certiorari from the Second Circuit s arbitration ruling. That petition is pending. The Company also filed a motion to dismiss the action filed by the Marcus Corporation, which was denied in July 2005. On
October 1, 2007, Marcus filed a motion seeking certification of a class. On March 30, 2009, the Court denied the plaintiffs  motion for class certification without prejudice to renew upon resolution of the pending summary
judgment motion. In April 2009, the Court denied plaintiffs  motion for reconsideration of the March 30th order. In September 2008, American Express moved for summary judgment seeking dismissal of Marcus  complaint and the plaintiff
Marcus cross-moved for partial summary judgment on the issue of liability. A decision on the summary judgment motions is pending. One case making similar allegations was filed and remains in the Superior Court of California, Los Angeles County
(filed December 2003). The Company continues to request the California Superior Court hearing the Hayama action referenced above to stay that action. To date the Hayama action has been stayed.         
   83   

Table of Contents  

   On February 19, 2009, an amended complaint was filed in  In Re: American Express
Merchants  Litigation . The amended complaint contains a single count alleging a violation of federal antitrust laws through an alleged unlawful tying of: (a) corporate, small business and/or personal charge card services; and
(b) Blue, Costco and standard GNS credit card services.  In addition, on February 19, 2009, a new complaint making the same allegations as made in the amended complaint filed in  In Re: American Express Merchants 
Litigation  was also filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. That new case is captioned:  Greenporter LLC and Bar Hama LLC, on behalf of themselves and all others similarly situated v. American Express
Company and American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.  Proceedings in the Greenporter action and on the amended complaint filed in In Re: American Express Merchant s Litigation have been held in abeyance pending the disposition
of the motions for summary judgment in the Marcus case.      Beginning August 2005, the Company has been named in a number of
putative class actions alleging that the Company s policy prohibiting merchants from imposing restrictions on the use of American Express Cards violates U.S. antitrust laws. These cases are now all consolidated in the U.S. District Court for
the Southern District of New York under the caption:   In Re: American Express Anti-Steering Rules Antitrust Litigation  . The plaintiffs  complaint seeks injunctive relief and unspecified damages. These plaintiffs have agreed
that a stay would be imposed with regard to their respective actions pending the appeal of the Court s arbitration ruling discussed above. Given the ruling of the Second Circuit (discussed above), the stay has been lifted, and American
Express s response to the complaint was filed in April 2009. On December 1, 2009, the United States Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation denied the plaintiffs motion to consolidate their cases with the individual suits discussed
below pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York entered a scheduling order on December 28, 2009.      In June 2008, five separate lawsuits were filed against American Express Company in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
New York alleging that the Company s  anti-steering  rules in its merchant acceptance agreements violate federal antitrust laws. As alleged by the plaintiffs, these rules prevent merchants from offering consumers
incentives to use alternative forms of payments when consumers wish to use an American Express-branded card. The five suits were filed by each of Rite-Aid Corp., CVS Pharmacy Inc., Walgreen Co., Bi-Lo LLC., and H.E. Butt Grocery Company. The
plaintiff in each action seeks damages and injunctive relief. American Express filed its answer to these complaints and also filed a motion to dismiss these complaints as time barred. The Court has not yet ruled on the motion to dismiss and
entered a scheduling order on January 26, 2010.      In July, 2009, a putative class action, captioned  The Wild Grape v.
American Express Company, et al. , was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint challenges American Express s policy of retaining the discount charged to certain merchants when underlying
purchases are returned to the merchant by an American Express cardmember for a refund. The complaint seeks certification of a California-only class. American Express has filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.      In June 2009, a putative class action, captioned  Mesi v. American Express Centurion Bank , was filed in U.S. District Court for the
Central District of California. The complaint seeks to certify a class of American Express cardmembers with billing addresses in 16 different states  whose interest rates on their outstanding balances were retroactively increased  by the
Company. The complaint seeks, among other things, damages  in excess of $5,000,000  and unspecified injunctive relief. The complaint has been amended twice by plaintiff. On December 7, 2009, the Court ordered that the matter be stayed
pending decisions on relevant legal issues in other cases not involving American Express.      In October 2009, a putative class
action, captioned  Lopez, et al. v. American Express Bank, FSB and American Express Centurion Bank , was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint seeks to certify a nationwide class of American
Express cardmembers whose interest rates were changed from fixed to variable in or around August 2009 or otherwise increases. American Express filed a motion to compel arbitration, and plaintiff has indicated they will amend their complaint to limit
the class to California residents only.         
   84   

Table of Contents  

   In January 2006, in a matter captioned  Hoffman, et al. v. American Express Travel
Related Services Company, Inc. , No. 2001-02281, Superior Court of the State of California, County of Alameda, the Court certified a class action against TRS. In a case management order dated April 8, 2008, the Court defined
two classes as follows: (1) all persons who obtained American Express charge cards governed by New York law with billing addresses in California who purchased American Express  fee based travel related insurance plans from
September 6, 1995, through February 12, 2008, and (2) all persons who obtained American Express charge cards governed by New York law with billing addresses in states other than California who purchased American Express  fee
based travel related insurance plans from September 6, 1995, through February 12, 2008. The Court denied the plaintiff s motion to certify a class to pursue claims on behalf of persons who held American Express credit cards
governed by Utah law. Plaintiffs allege that American Express violated California and New York law by allegedly billing customers for flight and baggage insurance that they did not receive. American Express denies the
allegations. American Express filed a motion for summary judgment asking that the case be dismissed as a matter of law. The summary judgment motion was partially granted in July 2008 when the Court dismissed certain claims against
American Express including claims for punitive damages. Certain other claims survived summary judgment. A trial on the remaining claims began in November 2008. The Company prevailed in Phase 1 of that trial with the Court ruling
that the contract between the Company and its cardmembers was not ambiguous and that the Company operated the air-flight and baggage insurance program consistent with the contract. On March 25, 2009, the Court entered a preliminary order
in the Company s favor in Phase 2 of the trial, finding that: (1) the contract is not unconscionable; (2) the Company did not violate California consumer protection laws; and (3) the Company did not violate New York consumer
protection laws. The Court also awarded as-yet-to-be-determined costs to the Company. Plaintiff has filed a Notice of Appeal in the case. In addition, a matter making related allegations to those raised in the Hoffman case is pending in
the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. That matter, captioned  Environment Law Enforcement Systems v. American Express et al. , has effectively been stayed pending the proceedings in the Hoffman
action. Following the favorable March 25, 2009, ruling in Hoffman, the plaintiff in Environmental Law Enforcement Systems asked the Court to lift the stay and to allow plaintiff to obtain certain cardmember information. The Company
opposed that request, and the Court denied the request. Lastly, on October 30, 2008, a case making allegations similar to those raised in the Hoffman case was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of
Florida. That matter, captioned  Kass v. American Express Card Services, Inc., American Express Company and American Express Travel Related Services , was filed as a putative class action on behalf of American Express credit card
holders. On March 11, 2009, the Kass Court entered an order granting the joint motion of the parties to stay the case, and the Court also administratively closed the case.      In July 2004, a purported class action captioned  Ross, et al. v. American Express Company, American Express Travel Related Services
and American Express Centurion Bank  was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint alleges that American Express conspired with Visa, MasterCard and Diners Club in the setting of foreign conversion
rates and in the inclusion of arbitration clauses in certain of their cardmember agreements. The suit seeks injunctive relief and unspecified damages. The class is defined as  all Visa, MasterCard and Diners Club general-purpose
cardholders who used cards issued by any of the MDL Defendant Banks.  American Express cardholders are not part of the class. In September 2005, the Court denied the Company s motion to dismiss the action and preliminarily
certified an injunction class of Visa and MasterCard cardholders to determine the validity of Visa s and MasterCard s cardmember arbitration clauses. American Express filed a motion for reconsideration with the District Court, which
motion was denied in September 2006. The Company filed an appeal from the District Court s order denying its motion to compel arbitration. In October 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit denied the
Company s appeal and remanded the case to the District Court for further proceedings. On January 22, 2010, the Court (1) certified a damage class of all Visa, MasterCard and Diners Club general purpose cardholders who used cards
issued by any of the alleged co-conspiring banks during the period July 22, 2000 to November 8, 2006, and who were assessed a foreign transaction fee or surcharge and who have submitted valid claims in  In Re Currency Conversion
Antitrust Litigation. ; and (2) the Court denied American Express  motion to amend its answer to add the affirmative defense of release.         
   85   

Table of Contents  

   In June 2006, a putative class action captioned  Homa v. American Express Company et
al.  was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. The case alleges, generally, misleading and fraudulent advertising of the  tiered   up to 5 percent  cash rebates with the Blue Cash card. The
complaint initially sought certification of a nationwide class consisting of  all persons who applied for and received an American Express Blue Cash card during the period from September 30, 2003 to the present and who did not get the
rebate or rebates provided for in the offer.  On December 1, 2006, however, plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint dropping the nationwide class claims and asserting claims only on behalf of New Jersey residents who  while so
residing in New Jersey, applied for and received an American Express Blue Cash card during the period from September 30, 2003 to the present.  The plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other unspecified relief that the Court deems
appropriate. In May 2007, the Court granted the Company s motion to compel individual arbitration and dismissed the complaint. Plaintiff appealed that decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, and on
February 24, 2009, the Third Circuit reversed the decision and remanded the case back to the District Court for further proceedings. On October 22, 2009, a putative class action captioned  Pagsolingan v. American Express Company , et
al. was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. That case makes allegations that are largely similar to those made in Homa, except that Pagsolingan alleges multiple theories of liability and seeks to certify a
nationwide class of  [a]ll persons who applied for and received an American Express Blue Cash card during the period from September 30, 2003 to the present and who did not get the rebate or rebates provided for in the offer. 
     In January 2009, the Company signed a Memorandum of Understanding to resolve claims raised in a putative class action
captioned  Kaufman v. American Express Travel Related Services , pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. Since such time, the parties have entered into a settlement agreement that was submitted to the
Court for preliminary approval, and a final ruling on preliminary approval remains pending. The allegations in Kaufman relate primarily to monthly service fee charges, with the critical claim being that the Company s gift card product violates
consumer protection statutes because consumers allegedly have difficulty spending small residual amounts on the gift cards prior to the imposition of monthly service fees. The proposed Settlement Class consists of  All purchasers, recipients
and holders of all gift cards issued by American Express from January 1, 2002 through the date of preliminary approval of the Settlement, including without limitation, gift cards sold at physical retail locations, via the internet, or through
mall co-branded programs.  Under the terms of the proposed settlement, in addition to certain non-monetary relief, the Company would pay $3 million into a settlement fund. Members of the settlement class would then be entitled to submit claims
against the settlement fund to receive refunds of certain gift card fees, and any monies remaining in the settlement fund after payment of all claims would be paid to charity. In addition, the Company would make available to the settlement class for
a period of time the opportunity to buy gift cards with no purchase fee. Finally, the Company would be responsible for paying class counsel s reasonable fees and expenses and certain expenses of administering the class settlement. The Company
is also a defendant in two other putative class actions making allegations similar to those made in Kaufman:  Goodman v. American Express Travel Related Services , pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New
York, and  Jarratt v. American Express Company , filed in California state court in San Diego. If the Kaufman settlement ultimately receives final approval, all related gift cards claims and suits would also be released.       International Matters       In
May 2006, in a matter captioned  Marcotte v. Bank of Montreal et al. , filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District of Montreal (originally filed in April 2003) the Court authorized a class action against Amex Bank of Canada, Bank
of Montreal, Toronto-Dominion Bank, Royal Bank of Canada, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Scotiabank, National Bank of Canada, Laurentian Bank of Canada and Citibank Canada. The action alleges that conversion commissions made on foreign currency
transactions are credit charges under the Quebec Consumer Protection Act (the QCPA) and cannot be charged prior to the 21-day grace period under the QCPA. The class includes all persons holding a credit card issued by one of the defendants to
whom fees were charged since April 17, 2000, for transactions made in foreign currency before expiration of the period of 21 days following the statement of account. The class claims reimbursement of all foreign currency conversions,
        
   86   

Table of Contents  

CDN$400 per class member for trouble, inconvenience and punitive damages, interest and fees and costs. The trial in the  Marcotte  action commenced in September 2008 and was
completed in November. The Court rendered a judgment in favor of the plaintiffs against Amex Bank of Canada on June 11, 2009, and awarded damages in the amount of CDN$7.1 million plus interest on the QCPA claims and individual claims to be made
on the non-disclosure claims. In addition, the Court awarded punitive damages in the amount of CDN$21.52 per cardmember. The judgment has been appealed by all banks, including Amex Bank of Canada. The appeal is expected to be heard by the Quebec
Court of Appeal in the fall of 2011.      In November 2006, in a matter captioned  Sylvan Adams v. Amex Bank of Canada 
filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District of Montreal (originally filed in November 2004), the Court authorized a class action against Amex Bank of Canada. The plaintiff alleges that prior to December 2003, Amex Bank of Canada
charged a foreign currency conversion commission on transactions to purchase goods and services in currencies other than Canadian dollars and failed to disclose the commissions in monthly billing statements or solicitations directed to prospective
cardmembers. The class, consisting of all Cardmembers in Quebec that purchased goods or services in a foreign currency prior to December 2003, claims reimbursement of all foreign currency conversion commissions, CDN$1,000 in punitive
damages per class member, interest and fees and costs. The trial in the  Adams  action commenced, and was completed, in December 2008 after the conclusion of the trial in the  Marcotte  action. The Court rendered a judgment in
favor of the plaintiffs against Amex Bank of Canada on June 11, 2009, and awarded damages in the amount of CDN$11.2 million plus interest on the non-disclosure claims. In addition, the Court awarded punitive damages in the amount of CDN$2.2
million. The judgment has been appealed by Amex Bank of Canada. The appeal is expected to be heard by the Quebec Court of Appeal in the fall of 2011.      In November 2006, in a matter captioned  Option Consommateurs and Benoit Fortin v. Amex Bank of Canada et al.  filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District of Montreal (originally filed in July
2003), the Court authorized a class action against Amex Bank of Canada, Citibank Canada, MBNA Canada, Diners Club International, Capital One and Royal Bank of Canada. The plaintiff alleges that the defendants have violated the Quebec Consumer
Protection Act ( QCPA ) by imposing finance charges on credit card transactions prior to 21 days following the receipt of the statement containing the charge. It is alleged that the QCPA provisions which require a 21-day grace period prior
to imposing finance charges applies to credit cards issued by Amex Bank of Canada in Quebec and that finance charges imposed prior to this grace period violate the Act. The class seeks reimbursement of all finance charges imposed in violation of the
Act, CDN$200 in punitive damages per class member, interest and fees and costs.      In May 2005, Amex Bank of Canada was added as
a defendant to a motion to authorize a class action captioned  Option Consommateurs and Joel-Christian St-Pierre v. Bank of Montreal et al.  filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District of Quebec. The motion, which also names as defendants
Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank, HSBC Bank of Canada, among others, alleges that the defendants violated QCPA by imposing finance charges on credit card transactions prior to 21 days following the receipt of the statement containing the
charge. It is alleged that the QCPA provisions, which require a 21-day grace period prior to imposing finance charges, applies to credit cards issued by Amex Bank of Canada in Quebec and that finance charges imposed prior to this grace period
violate the QCPA. The proposed class seeks reimbursement of all finance charges imposed in violation of the QCPA, CDN$100 in punitive damages per class member, interest and fees and costs.       Other Matters       During the
last few years as regulatory interest in credit card network pricing to merchants and related issues has increased, the Company has responded to many inquiries from banking and competition authorities throughout the world. On October 14, 2008,
the Company received a Civil Investigative Demand ( CID ), dated October 10, 2008, from the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice ( DOJ ). A CID is a request for information in the course of a civil
investigation and does not constitute the commencement of legal
        
   87   

Table of Contents  

proceedings. The DOJ is permitted by statute to issue a CID to anyone whom it believes may have information relevant to an investigation. The receipt of a CID does not presuppose that
there is probable cause to believe that a violation of the antitrust laws has occurred or that a formal complaint ultimately will be filed. The DOJ has requested the production of documents and information regarding the Company s policies
relating to merchant surcharging and its  anti-steering  policies that prohibit merchants from discriminating against the Card in favor of other forms of payment. The Company is cooperating with the DOJ s request. The Company has also
received a similar civil investigative demand from the attorney general of the state of Ohio. These investigations are ongoing.       

ITEM 4.   
   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS         We did not submit any matters to a vote of our security holders during the last quarter of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2009.         
   88   

Table of Contents  

      PART II        

ITEM 5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES         (a) Our common stock trades principally on The New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol AXP. As of December 31, 2009, we had
41,273 common shareholders of record. You can find price and dividend information concerning our common stock in Note 27 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which can be found on page 127 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders,
which note is incorporated herein by reference. For information on dividend restrictions, please see  Financial Review Share Repurchases and Dividends  on page 40 and Note 23 on page 119 of our 2009 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. You can find information on securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans under the captions  Executive Compensation Share Plans,  and
 Executive Compensation Equity Compensation Plan Information  to be contained in the Company s definitive 2010 proxy statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which is scheduled to be held on April 26, 2010. The
information to be found under such captions is incorporated herein by reference. Our definitive 2010 proxy statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders is expected to be filed with the SEC in March 2010 (and, in any event, not later than
120 days after the close of our most recently completed fiscal year).      Under the Treasury s Capital Purchase Program
pursuant to the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, we announced on January 9, 2009, the receipt of aggregate proceeds of $3.39 billion from the Treasury in exchange for the sale to the Treasury of (i) 3,388,890 shares of
our Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, par value $1.66 2/3 per share (the  Series A Preferred Stock ), having a liquidation preference per share equal to $1,000 and (ii) a ten-year warrant
(the  Warrant ) to purchase up to 24,264,129 shares of our common shares at an initial per share exercise price of $20.95 per share. We repurchased all of the Series A Preferred Stock in June 2009 and repurchased the Warrant in July
2009. For additional information about these transactions, please see our Current Reports on Form 8-K filed on January 9, 2009, June 17, 2009 and July 29, 2009.      (b) Not applicable.      (c) The table below sets forth the information with respect to purchases of our common stock made by or on behalf of the Company during the quarter ended December 31, 2009.       
       
   89   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  At December 31, 2009, there are approximately 100 million shares of common stock remaining under Board authorization. Such authorization does not have an
expiration date, and at present, there is no intention to modify or otherwise rescind such authorization. Since September 1994, the Company has acquired 670 million shares under various Board authorizations to repurchase up to an aggregate of
770 million shares of common stock, including purchases made under agreements with third parties.     

(2)  
  Includes: (a) shares delivered by or deducted from holders of employee stock options who exercised options (granted under the Company s incentive compensation
plans) in satisfaction of the exercise price and/or tax withholding obligation of such holders and (b) restricted shares withheld (under the terms of grants under the Company s incentive compensation plans) to offset tax withholding
obligations that occur upon vesting and release of restricted shares. The Company s incentive compensation plans provide that the value of the shares delivered or attested to, or withheld, shall be the average of the high and low price of the
Company s common stock on the date the relevant transaction occurs.     

(3)  
  Share purchases under publicly announced programs are made pursuant to open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions (including with employee benefit
plans) as market conditions warrant and at prices the Company deems appropriate.         

ITEM 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA         The  Consolidated Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data  appearing on page 128 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS         The information set forth under the heading  Financial Review  appearing on pages 18-65 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders
is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK         The information set forth under the heading  Risk Management  appearing on pages 47-49 and in Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 98-101 of our 2009 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA         The  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  (PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP), the  Consolidated Financial Statements  and the  Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  appearing on pages 67-127 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE         Not applicable.       

ITEM 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES         The Company s management, with the participation of the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is
defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer have concluded that, as of the end of such period, the Company s disclosure controls and procedures are effective.         
   90   

Table of Contents  

   There have not been any changes in the Company s internal control over financial
reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the Company s fourth quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control
over financial reporting.       Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting,  which sets forth
management s evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, and the  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009, appearing on pages 66 and 67 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         Not
applicable.         
   91   

Table of Contents  

      PART III    

ITEMS 10, 11, 12 and 13.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE; EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION; SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS; CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE         We expect to
file with the SEC, in March 2010 (and, in any event, not later than 120 days after the close of our last fiscal year), a definitive proxy statement, pursuant to SEC Regulation 14A in connection with our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
April 26, 2010, which involves the election of directors. The following information to be included in such proxy statement is incorporated herein by reference:       

information included under the caption  Corporate Governance Summary of the Company s Corporate Governance Principles Independence
of Directors           

information included in the table under the caption  Corporate Governance Membership on Board Committees       

information under the captions  Corporate Governance Compensation and Benefits Committee Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation  and  Compensation Committee Report           

information included under the caption  Corporate Governance Audit and Risk Committee           

information included under the caption  Compensation of Directors           

information included under the caption  Ownership of Our Common Shares           

information included under the caption  Item 1 Election of Directors           

information included under the caption  Executive Compensation           

information under the caption  Certain Relationships and Transactions           

information under the caption  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.          In addition, the information regarding executive officers called for by Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K may be found under the caption
 Executive Officers of the Company  in this Report.      We have adopted a set of Corporate Governance Principles, which
together with the charters of the four standing committees of the Board of Directors (Audit; Compensation and Benefits; Nominating and Governance; and Public Responsibility), our Code of Conduct (which constitutes the Company s code of ethics),
and the Code of Business Conduct for the Members of the Board of Directors, provide the framework for the governance of the Company. A complete copy of our Corporate Governance Principles, the charters of each of the Board committees, the Code of
Conduct (which applies not only to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Comptroller, but also to all other employees of the Company) and the Code of Business Conduct for the Members of the Board of Directors may be found by
clicking on the  Corporate Governance  link found on our Investor Relations Web site at http://ir.americanexpress.com. You may also access our Investor Relations Web site through the Company s main Web site at www.americanexpress.com
by clicking on the  About American Express  link, which is located at the bottom of the Company s homepage. (Information from such sites is not incorporated by reference into this Report.) You may also obtain free copies of these
materials by writing to our Secretary at the Company s headquarters.       

ITEM 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES         The information set forth under the heading  Item 2 Ratification of the Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Audit Fees;    Audit-Related
Fees;    Tax Fees;    All Other Fees;  and   Policy on Pre-Approval of Services Provided by Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,  which will appear in the Company s definitive proxy
statement in connection with our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 26, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.         
   92   

Table of Contents  

      PART IV        

ITEM 15.   
   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES         (a)      1.  Financial Statements :      The financial statements filed as a part of this report are listed on page F-1 hereof under  Index to Financial Statements,  which
is incorporated herein by reference.      2.  Financial Statement Schedules :      All schedules are omitted since the required information is either not applicable, not deemed material, or is shown in the respective
financial statements or in notes thereto.      3.  Exhibits :      The list of exhibits required to be filed as exhibits to this report are listed on pages E-1 through E-5 hereof under  Exhibit
Index,  which is incorporated herein by reference.         
   93   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY   

February 25, 2010  
     
    /s/    D ANIEL  T.
H ENRY             

Daniel T. Henry       Executive Vice President and       Chief Financial
Officer         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Company and in the capacities and on the date indicated.       

/ S /    K ENNETH  I.
C HENAULT               Kenneth I. Chenault       Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and       Director    
      
    / S /    J AN 
L ESCHLY               Jan Leschly       Director     

/ S /    D ANIEL  T.
H ENRY               Daniel T. Henry       Executive Vice President and       Chief Financial Officer    
      
    / S /    R ICHARD  C.
L EVIN               Richard C. Levin       Director     

/ S /    J OAN  C.
A MBLE               Joan C. Amble       Executive Vice President and       Comptroller    
      
    / S /    R ICHARD  A.
M C G INN               Richard A. McGinn       Director     

/ S /    D ANIEL  F.
A KERSON               Daniel F. Akerson       Director    
      
    / S /    E DWARD  D.
M ILLER               Edward D. Miller       Director     

/ S /    C HARLENE 
B ARSHEFSKY               Charlene Barshefsky       Director    
      
    / S /    S TEVEN  S
R EINEMUND               Steven S Reinemund       Director     

/ S /    U RSULA  M.
B URNS               Ursula M. Burns       Director    
      
    / S /    R OBERT  D.
W ALTER               Robert D. Walter       Director     

/ S /    P ETER 
C HERNIN               Peter Chernin       Director    
      
    / S /    R ONALD  A.
W ILLIAMS               Ronald A. Williams       Director     
 
           February 25, 2010         
   94   

Table of Contents  

    AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (Items 15(a)(1) and 15(a)(2) of Form 10-K)        

Form 10-K   
      
   Annual Report to Shareholders (Page)    
 
    American Express Company and Subsidiaries:   

Data incorporated by reference from 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders:   

Management s report on internal control over financial reporting   

66   
 
    Report of independent registered public accounting firm (PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP)   

67   
 
    Consolidated statements of income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009   

69   
 
    Consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008   

70   
 
    Consolidated statements of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009   

71   
 
    Consolidated statements of shareholders  equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2009   

72   
 
    Notes to consolidated financial statements   

73-128   
 
    Consent of independent registered public accounting firm   
      
  F-2  

Schedules:   

All schedules for American Express Company and subsidiaries have been omitted since the required
information is not present or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the respective financial statements or notes thereto. Refer to Notes 4, 5 and 26 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders for information on accounts receivable reserves, loan reserves and condensed financial information of the Parent Company Only, respectively.      *            *            *      The Consolidated Financial Statements of American Express Company (including the report of independent registered public accounting firm) listed in the above index, which are included in our 2009 Annual
Report to Shareholders, are hereby incorporated by reference. With the exception of the pages listed in the above index, unless otherwise incorporated by reference elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders
is not to be deemed filed as part of this report.         
   F-1   

Table of Contents  

    Exhibit 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-8 No. 2-46918, No. 2-59230, No. 2-64285, No. 2-73954, No. 2-89680, No. 33-01771, No. 33-02980, No. 33-28721,
No. 33-33552, No. 33-36442, No. 33-48629, No. 33-62124, No. 33-65008, No. 33-53801, No. 333-12683, No. 333-41779, No. 333-52699, No. 333-73111, No. 333-38238, No. 333-98479; and
No. 333-142710; Form S-3 No. 2-89469, No. 33-43268, No. 33-50997, No. 333-32525, No. 333-45445, No. 333-47085, No. 333-55761, No. 333-51828, No. 333-113768, No. 333-117835,
No. 333-138032 and 333-162791) of American Express Company of our report dated February 25, 2010, relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the 2009
Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.       
       
   F-2   

Table of Contents  

      EXHIBIT INDEX       The following exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report. The exhibit numbers preceded by an asterisk (*) indicate exhibits
electronically filed herewith. All other exhibit numbers indicate exhibits previously filed and are hereby incorporated herein by reference. Exhibits numbered 10.1 through 10.28, 10.30 through 10.35, 10.39, 10.40, 10.45 and 10.46 are management
contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.       
       
   E-1   

Table of Contents  

E-2   

Table of Contents  

E-3   

Table of Contents  

E-4   

Table of Contents  

10.46  
     
  Letter Agreement, dated October 2, 2009, between the Company and Alfred F. Kelly, Jr. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
(Commission File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended September 30, 2009).   

*12  
     
  Computation in Support of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.   

*13  
     
  Portions of the Company s 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders that are incorporated herein by reference.   

*21  
     
  Subsidiaries of the Company.   

*23.1  
     
  Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (contained on page F-2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K).   

*31.1  
     
  Certification of Kenneth I. Chenault, Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   

*31.2  
     
  Certification of Daniel T. Henry, Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   

*32.1  
     
  Certification of Kenneth I. Chenault, Chief Executive Officer, and Daniel T. Henry, Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

101.INS     101.SCH     101.CAL     101.DEF     101.LAB     101.PRE   
     
    XBRL Instance Document**     XBRL
Taxonomy Extension Schema Document**     XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document**     XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase.**     XBRL
Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document**     XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document**         

**  
  These interactive data files are furnished and deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise are not subject to liability under those sections.           
   E-5   

Table of Contents  

    UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C.
20549                  FORM 10-K        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF        THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934        
               American Express
Company        (Exact name of Company as specified in charter)        EXHIBITS          

<EX-12>
 2
 dex12.htm
 COMPUTATION IN SUPPORT OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation in Support of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

EXHIBIT 12        AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY        COMPUTATION IN SUPPORT OF
RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES        (Dollars in Millions)        
    Included in interest
expense in the above computation is interest expense related to the cardmember lending activities, international banking operations, and charge card and other activities in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Interest expense does not include
interest on liabilities recorded under GAAP governing accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. The Company s policy is to classify such interest in income tax provision in the Consolidated Statements of Income.      For purposes of the  earnings  computation,  other adjustments  include adding the amortization of capitalized interest,
the net loss of affiliates accounted for under the equity method whose debt is not guaranteed by the Company, the minority interest in the earnings of majority-owned subsidiaries with fixed charges, and the interest component of rental expense, and
subtracting undistributed net income of affiliates accounted for under the equity method.      For purposes of the  fixed
charges  computation,  other adjustments  include capitalized interest costs and the interest component of rental expense.   

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 3
 dex13.htm
 PORTIONS OF THE COMPANY'S 2009 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

Portions of the Company's 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders 

Table of Contents  

    Exhibit 13                      2009 FINANCIAL RESULTS                    

18  
     
   FINANCIAL REVIEW    

66  
     
   MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING    

67  
     
   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    

68  
     
   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

69  
     
   CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

73  
     
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

128  
     
   CONSOLIDATED FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA    

129  
     
   COMPARISON OF FIVE-YEAR TOTAL RETURN TO SHAREHOLDERS     

Table of Contents  

      2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY             FINANCIAL REVIEW       The
financial section of American Express Company s (the Company) Annual Report consists of this Financial Review, the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion is designed to
provide perspective and understanding regarding the Company s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Certain key terms are defined in the Glossary of Selected Terminology, which begins on page 61.      This Financial Review and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements have been adjusted to exclude discontinued operations unless
otherwise noted.      EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW      American Express is a global service company that provides customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. The Company s principal products
and services are charge and credit payment card products and travel-related services offered to consumers and businesses around the world. The Company s range of products and services include:       

charge and credit card products;          

expense management products and services;          

consumer and business travel services;          

stored value products such as Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products;          

network services for the Company s network partners;          

merchant acquisition and processing, point-of-sale, servicing and settlement and marketing products and services for merchants; and

fee services, including market and trend analyses along with related consulting services and customer loyalty and rewards programs.
        The Company s products and services are sold globally to diverse customer groups, including consumers, small
businesses, middle-market companies, and large corporations. These products and services are sold through various channels including direct mail, on-line applications, targeted direct and third-party sales forces, and direct response advertising.
     The Company s products and services generate the following types of revenue for the Company:       

Discount revenue, which is the Company s largest revenue source, represents fees charged to merchants when cardmembers use their cards to purchase
goods and services on the Company s network;          

Net card fees, which represent revenue earned for annual charge card memberships;            

Travel commissions and fees, which are earned by charging a transaction or management fee for airline or other travel-related transactions;

Other commissions and fees, which are earned on foreign exchange conversions and card-related fees and assessments;          

Securitization income, net, which is the net earnings related to cardmember loans financed through securitization activities;

Other revenue, which represents insurance premiums earned from cardmember travel and other insurance programs, revenues arising from contracts with
Global Network Services  (GNS) partners (including royalties and signing fees), publishing revenues, and other miscellaneous revenue and fees; and          

Interest and fees on loans, which principally represents interest income earned on outstanding balances, and card fees related to the cardmember
lending portfolio.         In addition to funding and operating costs associated with these types of revenue, other major expense
categories are related to marketing and reward programs that add new cardmembers and promote cardmember loyalty and spending, and provisions for anticipated cardmember credit and fraud losses.      In 2009, to better position the Company to grow its traditional businesses, and to develop new revenue categories and emerging payments, the
Company implemented the following organizational changes:       

Grouped the Company s global consumer and small business card-issuing, merchant and network businesses under the senior leadership of the Vice
Chairman of American Express, which will enable the Company to sharpen its focus on its strongest growth opportunities, while maintaining appropriate confidentiality protections;          

The Company is creating the Enterprise Growth Group, which will focus exclusively on generating new sources of fee revenue from existing assets and
advancing the Company s efforts in emerging payments;          

Formed a new Global Services Group under the leadership of the Company s Group President and Chief Information Officer, which unites the
Company s U.S. and international cardmember servicing organizations, as well as most processing and support functions across the Company including, among others, technology support and certain key processing functions in areas such as finance
and human resources. With this change to Global Services, the Company is organizing support functions by process rather than business unit, which the Company expects will streamline costs, reduce duplication of work, better integrate skills and
expertise, and improve customer
           
    18    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         

service. The expenses that now fall within Global Services account for just under half of the Company s consolidated operating expense. This organization has been tasked with generating an
annualized level of gross expense savings of approximately $500 million by 2012. It is expected that a portion of any such savings would be reinvested in growth initiatives; and          

Also, as part of the organizational changes, the Company s Chief Executive Officer is now working directly with the leaders of the Global
Commercial Card and Global Travel Services groups on overall strategies to capitalize on Business-to-Business growth opportunities.         Historically, the Company has sought to achieve a number of financial targets, on average and over time:       

Revenues net of interest expense growth of at least 8 percent;          

Earnings per share (EPS) growth of 12 to 15 percent; and          
    In addition, assuming achievement of such financial targets, the Company has sought to return at least 65 percent of the capital it generates to shareholders as a dividend or through the repurchase of
common stock.      The Company met or exceeded these targets for most of the past decade. However, during 2008 and 2009, its
performance fell short of the targets due to the effects of the continuing global economic downturn. As long as these difficult conditions persist, it is unlikely that the Company will achieve all of its on average and over time financial
objectives. The Company s share repurchase program was suspended in 2008 and, as a result, the amount of capital generated that is returned to shareholders has been and will likely continue to be below the levels achieved earlier in the decade.
     The Company believes it will be positioned, over the long term, to generate revenue and earnings growth in line with its
historical target levels. However, evolving market, regulatory and rating agency expectations will likely cause the Company, as well as other financial institutions, to maintain in future years a higher level of capital than they would have
historically maintained. These higher capital requirements would in turn lead, all other things being equal, to lower future ROE than the Company has historically targeted. While the Company is not establishing a new target at this time, it
currently believes that it will ultimately be positioned to deliver a ROE in excess of 20 percent over time. As the capital requirements for financial institutions become clearer, management will have greater visibility into this area. At that time,
the Company will provide updated long-term ROE and capital distribution targets.            BANK HOLDING COMPANY      During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company became a bank
holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, and the Federal Reserve Board (Federal Reserve) became the Company s primary federal regulator. As such, the Company is subject to the Federal Reserve s regulations, policies and
minimum capital standards.      CURRENT ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT/OUTLOOK      2009 was a challenging year characterized by a weak economy, frozen credit markets in the first half of the year and high credit losses industry wide. In the first two quarters, the Company s
spending and cardmember loan balances declined by double digits as compared to the corresponding periods in 2008 and credit metrics (e.g. past due and write-off rates) peaked at historically high levels. In the third quarter, the Company s
credit actions began to positively impact past due and write-off rates, and spending declines began to become less severe. The fourth quarter showed greater improvement.      In the fourth quarter of 2009 the year-over-year growth rate in cardmember spending volumes was positive for the first time since the third quarter of 2008, benefiting from both easier comparisons to
year-ago billings as well as higher levels of spending. Improvements in billed business trends were experienced in all business lines in the fourth quarter. In addition, for the first time during the year, the growth rate in both the number of card
transactions and average transaction size were positive in the fourth quarter as compared to the corresponding period in 2008. Despite these favorable trends, the Company expects the global economy to continue to recover gradually and the resulting
environment to be characterized by billings growth that is more modest than it experienced before the recession, as consumers and businesses remain cautious about their spending.      The favorable credit trends experienced in the third quarter of 2009 continued to show overall improvement in the fourth quarter. Charge card
write-off rates and past-due trends in the United States continued to improve significantly during the fourth quarter, reaching historic lows by the end of the year and contributing to lower provision levels. Worldwide lending write-off rates also
continued to decline in the fourth quarter, improving for the second quarter in a row. This was driven in part by a broad range of credit and business actions, such as enhanced credit and collection policies and practices. Lending past-due trends
also continued to improve in the fourth quarter. If past-due trends, recoveries and bankruptcies remain stable, the Company expects managed U.S. lending write-offs in the first quarter of 2010 to be similar to those in the fourth quarter of 2009,
and
        
    19    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
further expects these write-offs in the second quarter of 2010 to be lower than the first quarter.   1         In 2010, the Company intends to invest a substantial portion of expected benefits from its improving credit performance. The Company will focus on launching new products and services, improving long-term margins with investments in
infrastructure, and driving growth for the moderate to long-term. As the Company continues to scale back its issuance of proprietary lending cards and targets more premium cards, the Company s priority will be to drive billed business and
average spend per card rather than achieve broad growth in cards-in-force.      The Company s net interest yield in 2009 was
impacted by re-pricing actions, the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act (CARD Act), and changing consumer behavior. Going forward, these same dynamics will apply, with more impact from the CARD Act expected in the future. As
such, the Company expects net interest yields to trend down closer to historic levels over time.      The Company expects its 2010
EPS growth to be well above its long-term EPS target of 12 percent to 15 percent.      REENGINEERING INITIATIVES      In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company announced various reengineering initiatives which were expected to produce cost benefits of approximately $1.8
billion in 2009 versus the previously anticipated spending levels. These initiatives included: reducing staffing levels and compensation expenses (expected benefits of $700 million in 2009), reducing certain operating costs (expected benefit of $125
million in 2009) and scaling back investment spending (expected benefit of $1.0 billion in 2009). The Company began the execution and implementation of these initiatives in the fourth quarter of 2008, and as such, recorded a fourth quarter of 2008
restructuring charge of $404 million ($262 million after-tax) in continuing operations, primarily associated with severance and other costs related to the elimination of approximately 7,000 positions, in addition to $17 million ($11 million
after-tax) of other net reengineering costs.      In the second quarter of 2009, the Company announced another phase of
reengineering initiatives which were       

1   
  The  managed basis  presentation includes on-balance sheet cardmember loans and off-balance sheet securitized cardmember loans. The difference between the
 owned basis  (GAAP) information and the  managed basis  information is attributable to the effects of securitized activities. The Company is not presenting estimates of owned net write-off rates comparable to the managed data
above because the owned net write-off rates are not determinable at this time. For further discussion of the Company s owned and managed basis presentation, refer to the information set forth under U.S. Card Services in the section captioned
 Differences Between GAAP and Managed Presentations .        
expected to produce incremental cost benefits of approximately $800 million in 2009. These initiatives included: reducing staffing levels and compensation expenses (expected benefit of $175
million in 2009), scaling back investment spending on marketing and business development (expected benefit of $500 million in 2009) and cutting certain professional services, travel and general overhead expenses (expected benefit of $125 million in
2009). The Company began the implementation of these initiatives in the second quarter of 2009, and as such, recorded a second quarter 2009 net reengineering charge of $182 million ($118 million after-tax) in continuing operations, primarily
associated with severance and other costs related to the elimination of approximately 4,000 positions. Cumulatively, through these reengineering initiatives, the Company expected to eliminate approximately 11,000 positions, which accounted for
approximately 17 percent of its global workforce as of September 30, 2008.      As the Company has previously indicated,
business results in the second half of 2009 have been stronger than initially forecasted primarily due to favorable credit and business trends. The benefits from these favorable trends have been utilized to increase spending on marketing and other
business-building initiatives during the latter part of 2009. These increased investments have in turn reduced the targeted savings from our reengineering initiatives of approximately $2.6 billion described above. These favorable trends also drove
other business changes and modifications to previously planned reengineering initiatives which have resulted in a lower level of employee staff reductions and higher employee redeployment to other positions in the Company, further reducing targeted
savings. As of December 31, 2009, employee count has declined 8,200 or 12 percent since September 30, 2008 primarily due to the above initiatives.      ACQUISITIONS      On January 15, 2010, the Company purchased Revolution Money, a
provider of secure person-to-person payment services through an internet based platform, for approximately $300 million. Revolution Money offers online person-to-person payment accounts that are FDIC insured and suited for social and instant
messaging networks and offers the RevolutionCard, a general-use PIN-based card with enhanced security. The Company believes that Revolution Money s assets and expertise complement both its existing payments and processing capabilities, and also
provides it with an innovative technology platform which can help extend the Company s leadership beyond the traditional payments arena.      On March 28, 2008, the Company purchased Corporate Payment Services (CPS), General Electric Company s commercial card and corporate purchasing business unit. The Company acquired $2.2 billion in
assets and assumed $63 million in liabilities. The total cash consideration of $2.3
        
    20    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
billion paid by the Company consisted of the contractual purchase price of approximately $1.1 billion plus the repayment of CPS  $1.2 billion in outstanding debt as of the acquisition date.
     DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS      For the applicable periods, the operating results, assets and liabilities, and cash flows of American Express Bank Ltd. (AEB), which was sold to Standard Chartered PLC (Standard Chartered) in 2008, and American Express International Deposit
Company (AEIDC), which was sold to Standard Chartered in the third quarter of 2009, have been removed from the Corporate   Other segment and reported separately within the discontinued operations captions on the Company s Consolidated
Financial Statements.      Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company s
discontinued operations.      FINANCIAL SUMMARY      A summary of the Company s recent financial performance follows:       

(a)  
  Earnings per common share from continuing operations   diluted and Earnings per common share   diluted were both reduced by the impact of (i) accelerated
preferred dividend accretion of $212 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 due to the repurchase of $3.39 billion of preferred shares issued as part of the Capital Purchase Program (CPP), (ii) preferred share dividends and related
accretion of $94 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and (iii) earnings allocated to participating share awards and other items of $22 million and $15 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

(b)  
  Effective January 1, 2009, guidance for determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities requires that
restricted stock awards be included in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method. Accordingly, the Company has retrospectively adjusted EPS for all prior periods presented. Refer to Note 18 to the
Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.     

(d)  
  Return on average tangible common equity is computed in the same manner as ROE except the computation of average tangible common shareholders  equity (TCE)
excludes average goodwill and other intangibles of $3.0 billion and $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company believes that return on average tangible common equity is a useful measure of profitability of its
business.        See Consolidated Results of Operations, beginning on page 31, for discussion of the Company s results.
     The Company follows U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition to information provided on a GAAP basis,
the Company discloses certain data on a  managed basis . This information, which should be read only as a supplement to GAAP information, assumes, in the Consolidated Selected Statistical Information and U.S. Card Services (USCS) segment,
there have been no cardmember loans securitization transactions. These managed basis adjustments, and management s rationale for such presentation, are discussed further in the USCS section below under  Differences between GAAP and Managed
Basis Presentation .      Certain of the statements in this Annual Report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See Forward-Looking Statements at the end of this discussion.         
    21    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES      Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the Company s significant accounting policies referenced, as applicable, to
other notes. The following chart provides information about five critical accounting policies that are important to the Consolidated Financial Statements and that require significant management assumptions and judgments.      RESERVES FOR CARDMEMBER LOSSES       

Description   
      
    Assumptions/Approach Used   
      
    Effect if Actual Results
Differ from Assumptions    
 
  Reserves for cardmember losses relating to cardmember loans and receivables represent management s best estimate of the losses inherent
in the Company s outstanding portfolio of loans and receivables.  
      
    Reserves for cardmember loans and receivables losses are primarily based upon models that
analyze portfolio performance and reflect management s judgment regarding overall reserve adequacy. The analytic models take into account several factors, including average losses and recoveries over an appropriate historical period. Management
considers whether to adjust the analytic models for specific factors such as increased risk in certain portfolios, impact of risk management initiatives on portfolio performance and concentration of credit risk based on factors such as tenure,
industry or geographic regions. In addition, management adjusts the reserves for losses for other external environmental factors including leading economic and market indicators such as the unemployment rate, Gross Domestic Product (GDP), home price
indices, non-farm payrolls, personal consumption expenditures index, consumer confidence index, purchasing manager s index, bankruptcy filings, and the legal and regulatory environment. Generally, due to the short-term nature of cardmember
receivables, the impact of the other external environmental factors on the inherent losses within the cardmember receivable portfolio is not significant. As part of this evaluation process, management also considers various reserve coverage metrics,
such as reserves as a percentage of past-due amounts, reserves as a percentage of cardmember loans and receivables, and net write-off coverage.     Cardmember loans and receivables are written off when management deems amounts to be uncollectible and is generally determined by the number of days past due. Cardmember loans and USCS cardmember
receivables are generally written off when          (continued on next page) 

To the extent historical credit experience updated for emerging market trends in credit are not
indicative of future performance, actual losses could differ significantly from management s judgments and expectations, resulting in either higher or lower future provisions for losses, as applicable.     As of December 31, 2009, an increase in write-offs equivalent to 20 basis points of cardmember loan and receivable balances at such date
would increase the provision for cardmember losses by approximately $133 million. This sensitivity analysis does not represent management s expectations of the deterioration in write-offs but is provided as a hypothetical scenario to assess the
sensitivity of the provision for cardmember losses to changes in key inputs.     The process of determining the reserve for
cardmember losses requires a high degree of judgment. It is possible that others, given the same information, may at any point in time reach different reasonable conclusions.           
    22    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   RESERVES FOR CARDMEMBER LOSSES (CONTINUED)       

Description   
      
    Assumptions/Approach Used   
      
    Effect if Actual Results
Differ from Assumptions    

180 days past due. International Card Services (ICS) and Global Commercial Services (GCS)
cardmember receivables are generally written off when they are 360 days past billing.     Cardmember loans and receivables in
bankruptcy or owed by deceased individuals are written off upon notification.     Recoveries of both cardmember loans and
receivables are recognized on a cash basis.   

23    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   RESERVES FOR MEMBERSHIP REWARDS COSTS       

Description   
      
    Assumptions/Approach Used   
      
    Effect if Actual Results
Differ from Assumptions    
 
    The Membership Rewards program is the largest card-based rewards program in the industry.
Eligible cardmembers can earn points for purchases charged and many of the Company s card products offer the ability to earn bonus points for certain types of purchases. Membership Rewards points are redeemable for a broad variety of rewards
including travel, entertainment, retail certificates and merchandise.     Points typically do not expire and there is no limit
on the number of points a cardmember may earn. A large majority of spending by eligible cardmembers earns points under the program. While cardmember spend, redemption rates, and the related expense have increased, the Company believes it has
historically benefited through higher revenues, lower cardmember attrition and credit losses and more timely payments.     The
Company establishes balance sheet reserves that represent the estimated future cost of points earned to date that are ultimately expected to be redeemed. These reserves reflect management s judgment regarding overall adequacy. The provision for
the cost of Membership Rewards is included in marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses.   
      
    A weighted-average cost per point redeemed during the previous 12 months, adjusted as
appropriate for recent changes in redemption costs, is used to approximate future redemption costs and is affected by the mix of rewards redeemed. Management uses models to estimate ultimate redemption rates based on historical redemption
statistics, card product type, year of program enrollment, enrollment tenure, and card spend levels. These models incorporate sophisticated statistical and actuarial techniques to estimate ultimate redemption rates of points earned to date by
current cardmembers given redemption trends and projected future redemption behavior.     The global ultimate redemption rate
assumption for current participants is approximately 90 percent. The Company continually evaluates its reserve methodology and assumptions based on developments in redemption patterns, cost per point redeemed, contract changes, and other factors.

The reserve for the estimated cost of points expected to be redeemed is impacted over time by
enrollment levels, the number of points earned and redeemed, and the weighted-average cost per point, which is influenced by redemption choices made by cardmembers, reward offerings by partners and other Membership Rewards program changes. The
reserve is most sensitive to changes in the estimated ultimate redemption rate. This rate is based on the expectation that a large majority of all points earned will eventually be redeemed.     As of December 31, 2009, if the ultimate redemption rate of current enrollees increased by 100 basis points, the balance sheet reserve
and corresponding provision for the cost of Membership Rewards would each increase by approximately $250 million.           
    24    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT       

Description   
      
    Assumptions/Approach Used   
      
    Effect if Actual Results
Differ from Assumptions    
 
    The Company holds investment securities, certain subordinated interests in securitized
cardmember loans from the Company s securitization program and derivative instruments. These financial instruments are reflected at fair value on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management makes significant assumptions and
judgments when estimating fair value for these financial instruments.          Investment Securities      The Company s investment securities are comprised of predominantly fixed-income securities issued by
states and municipalities as well as the U.S. Government and Agencies (e.g., Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae) and retained subordinated securities described further below. The investment securities are classified as available-for-sale with
changes in fair value recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income within shareholders  equity on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets (except for approximately $213 million, as of December 31, 2008, of investment
securities included in discontinued operations, for which changes in fair value are recorded in (loss) income from discontinued operations in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income).          Securitized Cardmember Loans      When the Company securitizes cardmember loans, they are accounted for as sales and the loans are removed from the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company retains certain subordinated interests in the securitized cardmember loans, which may include one or more investments in tranches of the securitization (retained subordinated securities) and an interest-only strip.   
      
    In accordance with fair value measurement and disclosure guidance, the objective of a fair value
measurement is to determine the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). The disclosure guidance establishes a
three-level hierarchy of valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to the measurement of fair value based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
(Level 1), followed by the measurement of fair value based on pricing models with significant observable inputs (Level 2), with the lowest priority given to the measurement of fair value based on pricing models with significant unobservable inputs
(Level 3).          Investment Securities      The fair market values for the Company s investment securities (excluding its retained subordinated securities, which are discussed further below) are
obtained primarily from pricing services engaged by the Company. The fair values provided by the pricing services are estimated by using pricing models where the inputs to those models are based on observable market inputs. The inputs to the
valuation techniques applied by the pricing services vary depending on the type of security being priced but are typically benchmark yields, benchmark security prices, credit spreads, prepayment speeds, reported trades and/or broker-dealer quotes,
all with reasonable levels of transparency. The pricing services do not apply any adjustments to the pricing models used. In addition, the Company did not apply any adjustments to prices received from the pricing services. The Company has reaffirmed
its understanding of the valuation techniques used by its pricing services. In addition, the Company corroborates the prices provided by its pricing services to test their reasonableness by comparing their prices to valuations          (continued on next page)    
      
     Investment Securities      In the measurement of fair value for the Company s investment securities (excluding its retained subordinated securities, which are discussed further below), even though the underlying inputs used in
the pricing models are directly observable from active markets or recent trades of similar securities in inactive markets, the pricing models do entail a certain amount of subjectivity and therefore differing judgments in how the underlying inputs
are modeled could result in different estimates of fair value.          Retained
Subordinated Securities and Interest-Only Strip      In measuring the fair value for the Company s retained subordinated securities, the
fair value is impacted by external market factors including London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) forward rates and credit spreads, and therefore, the use of different inputs to the measurement of the fair value of the Company s retained
subordinated securities could result in a different fair value measurement.     The fair value of the interest-only strip is
impacted by changes in the estimates and assumptions used in the valuation models. The use of different inputs to the measurement of fair value of these financial instruments could result in a different fair value measurement.     Refer to Note 7 to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements, including sensitivity analyses relating to changes in key
assumptions for the retained subordinated securities and interest-only strip.           
    25    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED)       

Description   
      
    Assumptions/Approach Used   
      
    Effect if Actual Results
Differ from Assumptions    
 
     Retained Subordinated Securities      Accounting for the retained subordinated securities aligns with that described under investment securities above.          Interest-Only Strip      The interest-only strip is reported at fair value in other assets on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the fair value of the interest-only strip are also recorded in
securitization income, net in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income.     Due to changes in GAAP governing the
accounting for transfers of financial assets, effective January 1, 2010, the Company s retained subordinated securities and interest-only strip will be eliminated in consolidation and no longer measured at fair value.          Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets      Defined benefit pension plan (the Plan) assets are measured at fair value, changes in which are included in the determination of the Plan s net funded
status which is reported in other liabilities on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets.   
      
    from different pricing sources as well as comparing prices to the sale prices received from sold
securities. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, all of the Company s investment securities are classified in either Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Refer to Note 3 to the Company s Consolidated Financial
Statements.          Retained Subordinated Securities and Interest-Only
Strip      The fair value of the Company s retained subordinated securities and interest-only strip are determined using discounted cash
flow models.     The discount rate for the retained subordinated securities is estimated based on an interest rate curve that
is observable in the marketplace plus an unobservable credit spread commensurate with the risk of the securities and similar financial instruments.     The fair value of the Company s interest-only strip is the present value of estimated future positive excess spread expected to be generated by the securitized loans over the estimated remaining life
of those loans. Management utilizes certain estimates and assumptions to determine the fair value of the interest-only strip asset including estimates for finance charge yield, credit losses, LIBOR (which determines future certificate interest
costs), monthly payment rate and the discount rate.     The Company s retained subordinated securities and interest-only
strip are classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Refer to Note 3 to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.          Other-Than-Temporary Impairment      Realized
losses are recognized when management determines that a decline in value is other-than-temporary, which requires judgment regarding the amount and timing of recovery. The Company reviews and evaluates its investment securities, including retained
subordinated securities at least quarterly, and more often as market conditions may require, to          (continued on next page)    
      
     Other-Than-Temporary Impairment      In determining whether any of the Company s investment securities (including retained subordinated securities) are other-than-temporarily impaired, a
change in facts and circumstances could lead to a change in management judgment around the Company s view on collectability and credit quality of the issuer, or the Company s intent to sell the investment securities, and whether it is more
likely than not that the Company will not be required to sell the investment securities before recovery of any unrealized losses. Therefore, it is at least reasonably possible that a change in estimate will occur in the near term relating to
other-than-temporary impairment. This could result in the Company recording an other-than-temporary impairment loss through earnings with a corresponding offset to accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the
Company had approximately $0.3 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, in gross unrealized losses in its investment securities portfolio (including its retained subordinated securities) which were deemed not to be other-than-temporarily impaired.
          Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets      The fair value measurements for the Plan assets contain a similar amount of subjectivity as described under investment securities above, and therefore
differing judgments in how the underlying inputs are modeled could result in different estimates of fair value.           
    26    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED)       

Description   
      
    Assumptions/Approach Used   
      
    Effect if Actual Results
Differ from Assumptions    
 
     Derivative Instruments      The Company s primary derivative instruments include interest rate swaps, foreign currency forward agreements, and cross-currency swaps. Derivative instruments are reported at fair value in other
assets and other liabilities on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in fair value are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, and/or in the Consolidated Statements of Income, depending on (i) the
documentation and designation of the derivative instrument, and (ii) if the derivative instrument is in a hedging relationship, its effectiveness in offsetting the changes in the designated risk being hedged.   
      
    identify investment securities that have indications of other-than-temporary impairment. The
determination of other-than-temporary impairment is a subjective process, requiring the use of judgments and assumptions. Accordingly, the Company considers several metrics when evaluating investment securities for an other-than-temporary
impairment. The key factors considered when assessing other-than-temporary impairment include the determination of the extent to which the decline in fair value of the investment security is due to increased default risk for the specific issuer, or
market interest rate risk. With respect to increased default risk, the Company assesses the collectibility of principal and interest payments by monitoring a number of issuer specific factors, and the extent to which amortized cost exceeds fair
value and the duration and size of that difference. With respect to market interest rate risk, including benchmark interest rates and credit spreads, the Company assesses whether it has the intent to sell the investment securities, and whether it is
more likely than not that the Company will not be required to sell the investment securities before recovery of any unrealized losses. Refer to Note 6 to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.          Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets      The fair value measurements for the Plan assets align with those described under investment securities above. Refer to Note 21 to the Company s
Consolidated Financial Statements.          Derivative
Instruments      The fair value of the Company s derivative instruments is estimated by using either a third-party valuation service that
uses proprietary pricing models, or by using internal pricing models, neither of which contains a high level of subjectivity as the valuation techniques used do not require significant judgment and inputs to those          (continued on next page)    
      
     Derivative Instruments      In the measurement of fair value for the Company s derivative instruments, although the underlying inputs used in the pricing models are readily observable from actively quoted markets, the pricing
models do entail a certain amount of subjectivity and therefore, differing judgments in how the underlying inputs are modeled could result in different estimates of fair value. In addition, any necessary credit valuation adjustments are based on
observable default rates. A change in facts and circumstances could lead to a change in management judgment about counterparty credit quality, which could result in the Company recognizing an additional counterparty credit valuation adjustment. As
of December 31, 2009, the credit and nonperformance risks associated with the Company s derivative instrument counterparties were not significant.         
  
    27    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED)       

Description   
      
    Assumptions/Approach Used   
      
    Effect if Actual Results
Differ from Assumptions    

models are readily observable from actively quoted markets. In each case, the valuation models
used are consistently applied and reflect the contractual terms of the derivatives, including the period of maturity, and market-based parameters such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity indices or prices, and volatility.     Credit valuation adjustments are necessary when the market parameters (for example, a benchmark curve) used to value the derivative
instruments are not indicative of the credit quality of the Company or its counterparties. The Company considers the counterparty credit risk by applying an observable forecasted default rate to the current exposure.     The Company manages derivative instrument counterparty credit risk by considering the current exposure, which is the replacement cost of
contracts on the measurement date, as well as estimating the maximum potential value of the contracts over the next 12 months, considering such factors as the volatility of the underlying or reference index. To mitigate derivative instrument credit
risk, counterparties are required to be pre-approved and rated as investment grade. The Company s derivative instruments are classified in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Refer to Notes 3 and 12 to the Company s Consolidated
Financial Statements.   

28    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   GOODWILL       

Description   
      
    Assumptions/Approach Used   
      
    Effect if Actual Results
Differ from Assumptions    
 
    Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost of an acquired company over the fair value of
assets acquired and liabilities assumed. In accordance with GAAP, goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment, at the reporting unit level, annually at June 30 and between annual tests if events or circumstances arise, such as
adverse changes in the business climate, that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value.     The Company assigns goodwill to its reporting units for the purpose of impairment testing. A reporting unit is defined as either an operating segment, or a business one level below an operating segment
for which discrete financial information is available that management regularly reviews.     The goodwill impairment test
utilizes a two-step approach. The first step identifies whether there is potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying
amount, the second step of the impairment test is required to measure the amount of any impairment loss.   
      
    Goodwill impairment testing involves management judgment, requiring an assessment of whether the
carrying value of the reporting unit can be supported by its fair value using widely accepted valuation techniques, such as the market approach (earnings multiples or transaction multiples for the industry in which the reporting unit operates) or
the income approach (discounted cash flow methods). The fair values of the reporting units were determined using a combination of valuation techniques consistent with the market approach and the income approach.     When preparing discounted cash flow models under the income approach, the Company estimates future cash flows using the reporting
unit s internal five year forecast and a terminal value calculated using a growth rate that management believes is appropriate in view of current and expected future economic conditions. The Company then applies a discount rate to discount
these future cash flows to arrive at a net present value amount, which represents the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. The discount rate applied approximates the expected cost of equity financing, determined using a capital asset pricing
model. The model generates an appropriate discount rate using internal and external inputs to value future cash flows based on the time value of money and the price for bearing the uncertainty inherent in an investment. The Company believes the
resulting rate, 11.4 percent, appropriately reflects the risks and uncertainties in the financial markets generally and in the Company s internally developed forecasts.   
      
  The Company has approximately $2.3 billion of goodwill as of December 31, 2009. The fair value of each of the Company s reporting units
is above its carrying value; accordingly, the Company has concluded its goodwill is not impaired at December 31, 2009. The Company could be exposed to increased risk of goodwill impairment if future operating results or macroeconomic conditions
differ significantly from management s current assumptions.          
    29    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   INCOME TAXES       

Description   
      
    Assumptions/Approach Used   
      
    Effect if Actual Results
Differ from Assumptions    
 
    The Company is subject to the income tax laws of the United States, its states and
municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates. These tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to the taxpayer s facts is sometimes open to interpretation. In establishing a provision for
income tax expense, the Company must make judgments about the application of these inherently complex tax laws.          Unrecognized Tax Benefits      The Company establishes a liability for unrecognized tax
benefits, which are the differences between a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and the benefit recognized in the financial statements.          Deferred Taxes      Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. A
valuation allowance is established when management determines that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the benefit of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.   
      
     Unrecognized Tax Benefits      In establishing a liability for an unrecognized tax benefit, assumptions may be made in determining whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the taxing authority
and also in determining the ultimate amount that is likely to be realized. A tax position is recognized only when, based on management s judgment regarding the application of income tax laws, it is more likely than not that the tax position
will be sustained upon examination. The amount of tax benefit recognized is based on the Company s assessment of the most likely outcome on ultimate settlement with the taxing authority. This measurement is based on many factors, including
whether a tax dispute may be settled through negotiation with the taxing authority or is only subject to review in the courts. As new information becomes available, the Company evaluates its tax positions, and adjusts its unrecognized tax benefits,
as appropriate.          Deferred Taxes      Since deferred taxes measure the future tax effects of items recognized in the financial statements, certain estimates and assumptions are required to
determine whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the benefit of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. In making this assessment, management analyzes and estimates the impact of future taxable income, reversing temporary
differences and available tax planning strategies. These assessments are performed quarterly, taking into account any new information.   
      
     Unrecognized Tax Benefits      If the tax benefit ultimately realized differs from the amount previously recognized in the income tax provision, the Company recognizes an adjustment of the unrecognized tax benefit through the income
tax provision.          Deferred Taxes      Should a change in facts or circumstances lead to a change in judgment about the ultimate realizability of a deferred tax asset, the Company records or
adjusts the related valuation allowance in the period that the change in facts or circumstances occurs, along with a corresponding increase or decrease to the income tax provision.           
    30    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      SUMMARY OF THE COMPANY S      FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE           

(b)  
  Return on average tangible common equity is computed in the same manner as ROE except the computation of average TCE excludes average goodwill and other intangibles of
$3.0 billion, $2.5 billion, and $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. The Company believes that return on average tangible common equity is a useful measure of profitability of its business.
             SELECTED
STATISTICAL INFORMATION   (   
   a)              

(a)  
  See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information.     

(b)  
  Card billed business includes activities (including cash advances) related to proprietary cards, cards issued under network partnership agreements, and certain
insurance fees charged on proprietary cards. Card billed business is reflected in the United States or outside the United States based on where the cardmember is domiciled.           
    31    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         

(c)  
  Total cards-in-force represents the number of cards that are issued and outstanding. Proprietary basic consumer cards-in-force includes basic cards issued to the
primary account owner and does not include additional supplemental cards issued on that account. Proprietary basic small business and corporate cards-in-force include basic and supplemental cards issued to employee cardmembers. Non-proprietary basic
cards-in-force includes all cards that are issued and outstanding under network partnership agreements.     

(d)  
  This calculation is designed to approximate merchant pricing. It represents the percentage of billed business (both proprietary and GNS) retained by the Company from
merchants it acquires, prior to payments to third parties unrelated to merchant acceptance.     

(e)  
  Average basic cardmember spending and average fee per card are computed from proprietary card activities only. Average fee per card is computed based on net card fees,
including the amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs, plus card fees included in interest and fees on loans (including related amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs), divided by average worldwide proprietary cards-in-force.
The card fees related to cardmember loans included in interest and fees on loans were $186 million, $146 million and $130 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The adjusted average fee per card is computed
in the same manner, but excludes amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs (a portion of which is charge card related and included in net card fees and a portion of which is lending related and included in interest and fees on loans). The
amount of amortization excluded was $243 million, $320 million and $288 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company presents adjusted average fee per card because management believes that this metric
presents a useful indicator of card fee pricing across a range of its proprietary card products.              AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY      SELECTED
STATISTICAL INFORMATION   (   
   a)              
       
    32    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         

(a)  
  See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information.     

(b)  
  In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in USCS are written off to 180 days past due,
consistent with applicable regulatory guidance. Previously, receivables were written off when 360 days past billing. The net write-offs for 2008 include approximately $341 million resulting from this write-off methodology change, which is not
reflected in the net write-off rate for USCS. If the $341 million had been included in USCS write-offs, the net write-off rate would have been 5.4 percent for 2008.     

(c)  
  A cardmember account is considered 90 days past billing if payment has not been received within 90 days of the cardmember s billing statement date. In addition, if
the Company initiates collection procedures on an account prior to the account becoming 90 days past billing, the associated cardmember receivable balance is considered as 90 days past billing. A cardmember account becomes past due if payment is not
received within 30 days after the billing statement date.     

(d)  
   Owned,  a GAAP basis measurement, reflects only cardmember loans included on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(e)  
  This amount includes reserves of $160 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, that were removed in connection with securitizations during the period. The
offset is in the allocated cost of the associated retained subordinated securities. This amount also includes foreign currency translation adjustments. The prior period included foreign currency translation and other adjustments primarily related to
the reclassification of certain waived fee reserves to a contra-cardmember receivable.     

(f)  
  See below for calculations of net interest yield on cardmember loans and the ratio of net interest income divided by average loans presented on an owned basis. The
Company believes net interest yield on cardmember loans (on both an owned and managed basis) is useful to investors because it provides a measure of profitability of the Company s cardmember loans portfolio.     

(g)  
  Includes on-balance sheet cardmember loans and off-balance sheet securitized cardmember loans. The difference between the  owned basis  (GAAP) information and
 managed basis  information is attributable to the effects of securitization activities. Refer to the information set forth under USCS Selected Financial Information for further discussion of the managed basis presentation.

(h)  
  This calculation includes elements of total interest income and total interest expense that are not attributable to the cardmember loan portfolio, and thus is not
representative of net interest yield on cardmember loans. The calculation includes interest income and interest expense attributable to investment securities and other interest-bearing deposits as well as to cardmember loans, and interest expense
attributable to other activities, including cardmember receivables.              CALCULATION OF NET INTEREST YIELD ON CARDMEMBER LOANS   (      a)              

(a)  
  See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information.     

(b)  
  Includes the GAAP to managed basis securitization adjustments to interest income and interest expense as set forth under USCS Selected Financial Information managed
basis presentation.        The following discussions regarding Consolidated Results of Operations and Consolidated Liquidity and
Capital Resources are presented on a basis consistent with GAAP unless otherwise noted.      CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009      The Company s 2009 consolidated income from continuing operations decreased $734 million or
26 percent to $2.1 billion and diluted EPS from continuing operations declined $0.93 or 38 percent to $1.54. Consolidated income from continuing operations for 2008 decreased $1.3 billion or 30 percent from 2007 and diluted EPS from continuing
operations for 2008 declined $0.97 or 28 percent from 2007.      The Company s 2009 consolidated net income decreased $569
million or 21 percent to $2.1 billion, and diluted EPS decreased $0.78 or 34 percent to $1.54. Consolidated net income for 2008 and 2007 was $2.7 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively. Net income included losses from discontinued operations of $7
million, $172 million and $114 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      The Company s total revenues net of
interest expense, provisions for losses, and total expenses decreased by approximately 14 percent, 8 percent and 14 percent, respectively, in 2009. Assuming no changes in foreign currency exchange rates from 2008 to 2009, total revenues net of
interest expense, provisions for losses and total expenses decreased approximately 12 percent, 7 percent and 12
        
    33    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
percent, respectively, in 2009.   2    Currency rate changes had a minimal impact on the growth rates in 2008.      Results from continuing
operations for 2009 included:       

A $180 million ($113 million after-tax) benefit in the third quarter related to the accounting for a net investment in the Company s consolidated
foreign subsidiaries. See also Business Segment Results   Corporate   Other below for further discussion;          

A $211 million ($135 million after-tax) gain in the second quarter of 2009 on the sale of 50 percent of the Company s equity holdings of
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC); and          

A $190 million ($125 million after-tax) net charge related to the Company s reengineering initiatives.         Results from continuing operations for 2008 included:       

A $600 million ($374 million after-tax) addition to U.S. lending credit reserves reflecting a deterioration of credit indicators in the second quarter
of 2008;          

A $449 million ($291 million after-tax) net charge, primarily reflecting the restructuring costs related to the Company s reengineering
initiatives in the fourth quarter of 2008;          

A $220 million ($138 million after-tax) reduction to the fair market value of the Company s interest-only strip; and      

A $106 million ($66 million after-tax) charge in the fourth quarter of 2008 to increase the Company s Membership Rewards liability, in connection
with the Company s extension of its partnership arrangements with Delta.         Results from continuing operations for
2007 included:       

An $80 million ($50 million after-tax) gain in connection with derivative and hedging instruments;          

A $63 million ($39 million after-tax) gain relating to amendments to the Company s U.S. pension plans, effective July 1, 2007, that reduced
projected pension obligations to plan participants;              

2   
  These currency rate adjustments assume a constant exchange rate between periods for purposes of currency translation into U.S. dollars (i.e., assumes the foreign
exchange rates used to determine results for the current year apply to the corresponding year-earlier period against which such results are being compared). Management believes that this presentation is helpful to investors by making it easier to
compare the Company s performance from one period to another without the variability caused by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.     

A $685 million ($430 million after-tax) charge related to enhancements to the method of estimating Membership Rewards liability;

A $438 million ($274 million after-tax) credit-related charge due to experienced deterioration of credit indicators in the latter part of 2007. This
fourth quarter charge was split between USCS cardmember loans and cardmember receivables of $288 million and $96 million, respectively, and included $54 million relating to a reduction in the fair value of the Company s retained subordinated
interest in securitized cardmember loans;          

$211 million ($131 million after-tax) of incremental business-building costs;          

$74 million ($46 million after-tax) of Visa litigation-related costs; and          

A $50 million ($31 million after-tax) contribution to the American Express Charitable Fund.         Also included in the 2007 results were $66 million ($43 million after-tax) of reengineering costs related to the Company s business travel, prepaid
services, international payments business and technology areas.      Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense      Consolidated total revenues net of interest expense for 2009 of $24.5 billion were down $3.8 billion or 14 percent from 2008, due to lower discount revenue,
lower total interest income, reduced securitization income, net, lower other commissions and fees, reduced travel commissions and fees, and decreased other revenues, partially offset by lower total interest expense. Consolidated total revenues net
of interest expense of $28.4 billion for 2008 were $806 million or 3 percent higher than 2007 primarily due to greater discount revenue, lower total interest expense, higher other revenues, increased net card fees and greater travel commissions and
fees, partially offset by lower securitization income, net, decreased interest income and lower other commissions and fees.      Discount revenue for 2009 declined $1.6 billion or 11 percent as compared to 2008 to $13.4 billion as a result of a 9 percent decrease in worldwide billed business. The greater decrease in discount revenue compared to billed business
primarily reflects growth in billed business related to GNS where the Company shares the discount revenue with card issuing partners, as well as a slight decline in the average discount rate. The 9 percent decrease in worldwide billed business in
2009 reflected decline in proprietary billed business of 11 percent, offset by a 7 percent increase in billed business related to GNS. The average discount rate was 2.54 percent, 2.55 percent, and 2.56 percent for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.
Over time, selective repricing initiatives, changes in the mix of business, and volume-related pricing discounts likely will result in some erosion of the average discount rate.         
    34    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 U.S. billed business and billed business outside the United States were down 10 percent and 8 percent, respectively, in 2009. The decline in
billed business within the United States reflected a decrease in basic cards-in-force and average spending per proprietary basic card. The decline in billed business outside the United States reflected a decrease in average spending per proprietary
basic card and decreases within the Company s consumer card, small business and Corporate Services business.          The table below summarizes selected statistics for billed business and average spend:       

2009   

2008  

Percentage Increase   (Decrease)  

Percentage Increase (Decrease) Assuming No Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates (f)   

Percentage Increase (Decrease)  

Percentage Increase (Decrease) Assuming No Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates (f)   

Worldwide (a)     

Billed business   
      
   (9   
   )%    
     
   (7   
   )%    
     
  6  
  %   
     
  5  
  %    
 
    Proprietary billed business   
      
   (11   
   )    
     
   (9   
   )    
     
  4  

3  

GNS volumes (b)    
      
   7   

11   

27  

27  

Average spending per proprietary basic card   
      
   (7   
   )    
     
   (5   
   )    
     
  (1  
  )   
     
  (1  
  )    
 
     United States (a)     

Billed business   
      
   (10   
   )    

3  

Average spending per proprietary basic card   
      
   (6   
   )    

(3  
  )   

Proprietary consumer card billed business (c)    
      
   (10   
   )    

(1  
  )   

Proprietary small business billed business (c)    
      
   (13   
   )    

7  

Proprietary Corporate Services billed business (d)    
      
   (11   
   )    

4  

Outside the United States (a)  

Billed business   
      
   (8   
   )    
     
   (1   
   )    
     
  13  

12  

Average spending per proprietary basic card   
      
   (9   
   )    
     
   (3   
   )    
     
  6  

4  

Proprietary consumer and small business billed business (e)    
      
   (10   
   )    
     
   (4   
   )    
     
  8  

7  

Proprietary Corporate Services billed business (d)    
      
   (19   
   )    
     
   (12   
   )    
     
  9  

8  

(a)  
  Captions in the table above not designated as  proprietary  include both proprietary and GNS data.     

(b)  
  Included in the GNMS segment.     

(c)  
  Included in the USCS segment.     

(d)  
  Included in the GCS segment.     

(e)  
  Included in the ICS segment.     

(f)  
  Refer to footnote 2 on page 34 relating to changes in foreign exchange rates.            Assuming no changes in foreign exchange rates, total billed business outside the United
States reflected mid-single digit volume increases in Latin America and Asia Pacific, and mid-single digit declines in Canada and Europe.      During 2008, discount revenue rose $429 million or 3 percent to $15 billion compared to 2007 as a result of a 6 percent increase in worldwide billed business, partially offset by a lower average discount
rate, relatively faster growth in billed business related to GNS, and higher cash-back rewards costs and corporate incentive payments, which are reported as reductions to revenue (contra-revenue). The 6 percent increase in worldwide billed business
in 2008 reflected growth in proprietary billed business of 4 percent, and a 27 percent increase in billed business related to GNS.      Net card fees in 2009 remained unchanged compared to 2008 as the decline in total proprietary cards in force was offset by an increase in the average fee per card. Net card fees in 2008 of $2.2 billion increased $231 million or 12 percent
compared to 2007 due to higher average fee per proprietary card.      Travel commissions and fees decreased $416 million or 21
percent to $1.6 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily reflecting a 28 percent decrease in worldwide travel sales, partially offset by higher sales commission and fee rates.         
    35    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
Travel commissions and fees in 2008 of $2.0 billion increased $84 million or 4 percent compared to 2007, primarily reflecting a 3 percent increase in worldwide travel sales.      Other commissions and fees decreased $529 million or 23 percent to $1.8 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, due to lower delinquency fees
reflecting decreased owned loan balances and the impacts of various customer assistance programs, in addition to reduced spending-related foreign currency conversion revenues. Other commissions and fees decreased $110 million or 5 percent in 2008 to
$2.3 billion compared to 2007 due to the reclassification to other revenues in USCS of certain card service-related fees beginning in the first quarter of 2008 and a lower level of fees related to a lower average balance of owned loans, which were
partially offset by increased assessment revenues.      Securitization income, net decreased $670 million or 63 percent to $400
million in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to lower excess spread, net, driven by increased write-offs and a decrease in interest income on cardmember loans and fee revenues. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by a decrease in
interest expense due to lower coupon rates paid on variable-rate investor certificates, as well as a favorable fair value adjustment of the interest-only strip. Securitization income, net decreased $437 million or 29 percent to $1.1 billion in 2008
compared to 2007, primarily due to lower excess spread, net, driven by increased write-offs, charges to the fair value of the interest-only strip reflecting lower expected future cash flows, and a net loss on sales compared to net gains in the prior
year. These impacts were partially offset by higher finance charges and fees due to a greater average balance of securitized loans and lower interest expense due to lower rates paid on investor certificates.      Other revenues in 2009 decreased $70 million or 3 percent to $2.1 billion compared to 2008, primarily reflecting decreased revenues from CPS,
due to the migration of clients to the American Express network, and lower publishing revenues, partially offset by the ICBC gain. Other revenues increased $406 million or 23 percent to $2.2 billion in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily reflecting the
benefits of the CPS acquisition, higher network and partner-related revenues, a reclassification from other commissions and fees from USCS as discussed above, and greater foreign exchange-related revenues.      Interest income decreased $1.9 billion or 26 percent to $5.3 billion in 2009 compared to 2008. Interest and fees on loans decreased $1.7
billion or 27 percent due to decline in the average owned loan balance, reduced market interest rates and the impact of various customer assistance programs, partially offset by the benefit of certain repricing initiatives. Interest and dividends on
investment securities increased $33 million or 4 percent, primarily reflecting increased investment levels partially offset by reduced investment yields. Interest income from deposits with banks and other decreased $212 million or 78 percent,
primarily due to a reduced yield and a lower balance of deposits in other banks. During 2008, interest income decreased $223 million or 3 percent to $7.2 billion compared to 2007, reflecting primarily a decrease in interest and fees on loans, which
declined $192 million or 3 percent due to a lower portfolio yield, reduced market interest rates on variably priced assets, partially offset by a slightly higher average owned loan balance.      Interest expense decreased $1.3 billion or 38 percent to $2.2 billion in 2009 compared to 2008. Interest expense related to deposits
decreased $29 million or 6 percent, primarily due to a lower cost of funds which more than offset increased balances. Interest expense related to short-term borrowings decreased $446 million or 92 percent, due to significantly lower short-term debt
levels and a lower cost of funds. Interest expense related to long-term debt and other decreased $873 million or 33 percent, primarily reflecting a lower cost of funds driven by reduced market rates on variably priced debt, as well as a lower
average balance of long-term debt outstanding. Interest expense of $3.6 billion in 2008 was $426 million or 11 percent lower than 2007 reflecting a $248 million decrease in interest expense on short-term borrowing, primarily due to a lower cost of
funds and a decrease in average short-term debt.      Provisions for Losses      Provisions for losses of $5.3 billion in 2009 decreased $485 million or 8 percent compared to 2008. Charge card provisions for losses decreased $506 million,
or 37 percent, primarily driven by improved credit performance. Cardmember loans provisions for losses increased $35 million, or 1 percent, primarily due to a higher cardmember reserve level due to the challenging credit environment, partially
offset by a lower owned loan balance.      Provisions for losses of $5.8 billion in 2008 increased $1.7 billion or 41 percent
compared to 2007. Charge card provisions for losses increased $223 million or 20 percent in 2008 primarily due to higher loss and delinquency rates compared to 2007, partially offset by the credit-related charge in the fourth quarter of 2007.
Cardmember loans provisions for losses increased $1.5 billion or 53 percent due to higher write-off and delinquency rates and higher average owned loan balances.      Expenses      Consolidated expenses for 2009 were $16.4 billion, down $2.6 billion or
14 percent from $19.0 billion in 2008. The decrease in 2009 was primarily driven by lower other, net expenses, reduced salaries and employee benefits expenses, lower marketing and promotion expense and decreased cardmember rewards expense partially
offset by greater cardmember services expense. Consolidated expenses for 2008 were $19.0 billion, up $1.2 billion or 7 percent from $17.8 billion in 2007. The increase in 2008 was primarily driven by higher other, net expenses, greater salaries and
employee
        
    36    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
benefits expenses, higher occupancy and equipment expenses, increased professional services costs and greater cardmember services expense, partially offset by decreased cardmember rewards expense
and lower marketing and promotion expense. Consolidated expenses in 2009, 2008, and 2007 also included $190 million, $449 million and $66 million, respectively, of reengineering costs, of which $185 million, $417 million, and $49 million,
respectively, represent restructuring charges. Refer to the discussion earlier regarding the Company s 2008 and 2009 reengineering initiatives and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for restructuring activities for all periods.
     Marketing and promotion expenses decreased $516 million or 21 percent to $1.9 billion in 2009 from $2.4 billion in 2008, due
to lower spending levels in the first three quarters of 2009, partially offset by higher expense in the fourth quarter of 2009. Marketing and promotion for 2008 decreased $132 million or 5 percent to $2.4 billion, reflecting decreased investments as
compared to 2007, which included the incremental business-building costs.      Cardmember rewards expenses decreased $353 million
or 8 percent to $4.0 billion in 2009 from $4.4 billion in 2008, reflecting lower rewards-related spending volumes, partially offset by higher redemption rates and costs in Membership Rewards and higher costs with relatively lower declines in
co-brand spending volumes. Cardmember rewards decreased $388 million or 8 percent to $4.4 billion in 2008 from $4.8 billion in 2007, reflecting the Membership Rewards-related charge in 2007, which was partially offset by the Delta-related charge in
2008 to increase the Membership Rewards liability and higher volume-driven rewards costs.      Salaries and employee benefits
expenses decreased $1.0 billion or 17 percent to $5.1 billion in 2009 from $6.1 billion in 2008, reflecting lower employee levels and costs related to the Company s reengineering initiatives, as well as the restructuring charge in the fourth
quarter of 2008. Salaries and employee benefits expenses in 2008 increased $652 million or 12 percent to $6.1 billion from $5.4 billion in 2007 reflecting the fourth quarter of 2008 restructuring charge related to the Company s reengineering
initiatives, an increase in average headcount, greater merit and sales force-related incentive costs and the pension-related gain in 2007.      Professional services expenses in 2009 compared to 2008 remained flat. Professional services expenses in 2008 compared to 2007 increased $133 million or 6 percent.      Other, net expenses in 2009 decreased $708 million or 23 percent to $2.4 billion compared to 2008, reflecting the full year of settlement
payments from MasterCard in 2009 versus two quarters in 2008, a $180 million third quarter benefit related to the accounting for a net investment in the Company s consolidated foreign subsidiaries (as discussed further in Business Segment
Results   Corporate   Other below), a $59 million benefit in the second quarter of 2009 from the completion of certain account reconciliations related to prior periods, and lower travel and entertainment and other expenses due to
the Company s reengineering activities. These were partially offset by a $9 million favorable impact in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to fair value hedge ineffectiveness. Other, net expenses in 2008 increased $895 million or 40 percent to
$3.1 billion compared to 2007 primarily due to the initial $1.13 billion Visa litigation settlement gain in the fourth quarter of 2007, net of litigation expenses, the related contribution to the American Express Charitable Fund and the 2008
expenses related to the CPS acquisition. These impacts were partially offset by the 2008 settlement payments from MasterCard and Visa.      Income Taxes      The effective tax rate was 25 percent in 2009 compared to 20 percent in 2008 and 28 percent in 2007. The tax
rates for these years reflect tax benefits related to the resolution of certain prior years  tax items and recurring permanent tax benefits in relation to the level of pretax income.      Discontinued Operations      Loss from
discontinued operations, net of tax, was $7 million, $172 million and $114 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, primarily reflected AEIDC and AEB results from operations, including
AEIDC s $15 million ($10 million after-tax), $275 million ($179 million after-tax) and $105 million ($69 million after-tax) of losses related to mark-to-market adjustments and sales within the AEIDC investment portfolio in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, as well as AEB s compliance-related remediation costs of $71 million ($45 million after-tax) to implement a more robust compliance program, and regulatory and legal expenses and monetary penalties of $60 million pretax and
after-tax in 2007.      CASH FLOWS      Cash Flows from Operating Activities      In 2009 and 2008, net cash provided by
operating activities exceeded net income, primarily due to provisions for losses, which do not require cash at the time of provision. Similarly, depreciation and amortization represent non-cash expenses. In addition, net cash was provided by net
income and higher accounts payable and other liabilities balances (including the Membership Rewards liability). These accounts vary significantly in the normal course of business due to the amount and timing of various payments.      For the year ended December 31, 2009, net cash provided by operating activities of $6.4 billion decreased compared to 2008. The decrease
was primarily due to a decrease in deferred taxes, acquisition costs and other, fluctuations in the Company s other receivables, accounts payable and other liabilities, as well as a reduction in income from continuing operations, partially
offset by changes in other assets.         
    37    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 Net cash provided by operating activities increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the increase in non-cash provisions for losses and
deferred taxes, acquisition cost and other, offset by the outflow of cash resulting from fluctuations in the Company s other assets.      Cash Flows from Investing Activities      The Company s investing activities primarily include funding cardmember loans and
receivables, securitizations of cardmember loans and receivables, and the Company s available-for-sale investment portfolio.      For the year ended December 31, 2009, increased net cash used in investing activities of $6.8 billion compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $7.6 billion in 2008, due to lower proceeds from cardmember loan
securitizations primarily due to a decrease in maturities and redemptions of investments, and an increase in restricted cash required for related securitization activities.      In 2008, net cash used in investing activities increased from 2007 primarily due to net decreases in cardmember receivables and loans
balances and cash provided by the sale of investments attributable to discontinued operations offset by cash used for acquisitions.      Cash Flows from Financing Activities      The Company s financing activities primarily include issuing and repaying debt,
taking customer deposits, paying dividends, and repurchasing its common and preferred shares.      In 2009, net cash used in
financing activities of $4.6 billion decreased compared to 2008, primarily due to an increase in customer deposits in 2009 and a reduction in cash used in financing activities attributable to discontinued operations in 2008.      In 2008, net cash used in financing activities increased compared to 2007, primarily due to net repayments of debt and the net cash used in
financing activities attributable to discontinued operations, partially offset by a decrease in the repurchase of American Express common shares from 2007.      CERTAIN LEGISLATIVE, REGULATORY AND OTHER DEVELOPMENTS      As a participant in the
financial services industry, the Company is subject to a wide array of regulations applicable to its businesses. The Company is a bank holding company and is subject to the supervision of the Federal Reserve. As such, the Company is subject to the
Federal Reserve s regulations and policies, including its regulatory capital requirements. In addition, the extreme disruptions in the capital markets since mid-2007 and the resulting instability and failure of numerous financial institutions
have led to a number of proposals for changes in the financial services industry, including significant additional regulation and the potential formation of additional regulatory bodies. To that end, in the summer of 2009 legislation proposing
significant structural reforms to the financial services industry was introduced in the U.S. Congress. Among other things, the legislation proposes the establishment of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency, which would have broad authority to
regulate providers of credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services. Additional legislative proposals also call for substantive regulation across the financial services industry, such as new requirements for the
securitization market, including requiring sponsors of securitizations to retain a material economic interest in the credit risk associated with the underlying securitization. Legislative and regulatory changes could impact the profitability of the
Company s business activities, require the Company to change certain of its business practices and expose it to additional costs (including increased compliance costs).      In recent years, there has been a heightened level of regulatory attention on banks and the payments industry in many countries. In May 2009,
the U.S. Congress passed, and the President of the United States signed into law, legislation to fundamentally reform credit card billing practices, pricing and disclosure requirements. This legislation accelerated the effective date and expanded
the scope of amendments to the rules regarding Unfair or Deceptive Acts or Practices (UDAP) and Truth in Lending Act that restrict certain credit and charge card practices and require expanded disclosures to consumers, which were adopted in December
2008 by federal bank regulators in the United States. Together, the legislation and the regulatory amendments, portions of which became effective commencing August 2009, include, among other matters, rules relating to the imposition by card issuers
of interest rate increases on outstanding balances and the allocation of payments in respect of outstanding balances with different interest rates. The Company is undertaking various actions to mitigate the impact of the legislation and the
amendments on its business and operations. In the event any actions undertaken by the Company to offset their impact are not effective, the legislation and amendments will likely have a material adverse effect on the Company s results of
operations.      The credit and charge card industry also faces continuing scrutiny in connection with the fees merchants are
charged to accept cards. Although investigations into the way bankcard network members collectively set the  interchange  (that is, the fee paid by the bankcard merchant acquirer to the card issuing bank in  four party  payment
networks, like Visa and MasterCard) had largely been a subject of regulators outside the United States, legislation has been introduced in Congress designed to give merchants antitrust immunity to negotiate interchange collectively with card
networks and to regulate certain card network practices. Although, unlike the Visa and
        
    38    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
MasterCard networks, the American Express network does not collectively set fees, antitrust actions and government regulation of the bankcard networks  pricing could ultimately affect all
networks.      In addition to the legislative and regulatory initiatives in the United States regarding card practices and merchant
fees, other countries in which the Company operates have been considering and in some cases adopting similar legislation and rules that would impose changes on certain practices of card issuers and bankcard networks, which could have a material
adverse effect on the Company s results of operations.      CONSOLIDATED CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY      The Company s balance sheet management objectives are to maintain:       

A solid and flexible equity capital profile;          

A broad, deep and diverse set of funding sources to finance its assets and meet operating requirements; and          

Liquidity programs that enable the Company to satisfy all maturing financing obligations for at least a 12 month period should some or all of its
funding sources become inaccessible.         CAPITAL STRATEGY      The Company s objective is to retain sufficient levels of capital generated through earnings and other sources to maintain a solid equity capital base
and to provide flexibility to satisfy future business growth. The Company believes capital allocated to growing businesses with a return on risk-adjusted equity in excess of its costs will generate shareholder value.      The level and composition of the Company s equity capital are determined in large part by the Company s internal assessment of its
business activities, as well as rating agency and regulatory capital requirements. They are also influenced by subsidiary capital requirements, the business environment, and by conditions in the debt capital markets. The Company, as a bank holding
company, is subject to regulatory requirements administered by the U.S. federal banking agencies. The Federal Reserve has established specific capital adequacy guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain
off-balance sheet items.      The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended the accounting for off-balance sheet
securitization activities beginning January 1, 2010, which resulted in the Company having to consolidate the assets (primarily cardmember loans) and liabilities (primarily debt certificates) of the American Express Credit Account Master Trust
(the Lending Trust). Both the cardmember loans and the debt will be consolidated by American Express Travel Related Services (TRS), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and a leading global payments and travel company, net of reserves for
expected credit losses.      The following table presents the regulatory risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratio for the
Company and its significant banking subsidiaries, as well as some additional ratios for the Company widely utilized in the marketplace, at December 31, 2009. The respective pro forma ratios are also presented, assuming the Lending Trust was
consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2009:       

(a)  
  Assumes the impact of the recognition of corresponding reserves and other adjustments on the Company would be as follows: Tangible common shareholders  equity
(TCE), common equity and risk-weighted assets decreasing by $1.8 billion; Tier 1 common equity, Tier 1 capital and total capital decreasing by $1.6 billion; and total average assets increasing by $23.7 billion.     

(b)  
  TRS will be the consolidating entity for the off-balance sheet securitized trust (Lending Trust) and therefore there would be no impact to the capital ratios of
Centurion Bank and FSB.     

(c)  
  Common shareholders  equity equals the Company s shareholders  equity of $14.4 billion at December 31, 2009, and TCE equals common
shareholders  equity, less goodwill and intangibles of $3.0 billion. Risk-weighted assets at December 31, 2009, were $116.6 billion. The Company believes that presenting the ratio of TCE to risk-weighted assets is a useful measure of
evaluating the strength of the Company s capital position. See also footnote (a) above.     

(d)  
  The regulatory benchmark of 4 percent was used within the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, conducted earlier in 2009.           
    39    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   The Company seeks to maintain capital levels and ratios in excess of the minimum regulatory
requirements; failure to maintain minimum capital levels could cause the respective regulatory agencies to take actions that could limit the Company s business operations.      The Company s primary source of equity capital has been through the generation of net income. Historically, capital generated through
net income and other sources, such as the exercise of stock options by employees, has exceeded the growth in its capital requirements. To the extent capital has exceeded business, regulatory and rating agency requirements, the Company has returned
excess capital to shareholders through its regular common dividend and the share repurchase program.      The Company maintains
certain flexibility to shift capital across its businesses as appropriate. For example, the Company may infuse additional capital into subsidiaries to maintain capital at targeted levels in consideration of debt ratings and regulatory requirements.
These infused amounts can affect the capital profile and liquidity levels for American Express  Parent Company (Parent Company).      During 2009, the Company returned $855 million in dividends to shareholders, which represents approximately 46 percent of total capital generated.      U.S. DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY CAPITAL PURCHASE PROGRAM      On January 9, 2009,
under the United States Department of the Treasury (Treasury Department) Capital Purchase Program (CPP), the Company issued to the Treasury Department for aggregate proceeds of $3.39 billion: (1) 3.39 million shares of Fixed Rate (5
percent) Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Shares, Series A, and (2) a ten-year warrant (the Warrant) for the Treasury Department to purchase up to 24 million common shares at an exercise price of $20.95 per share. The Company repurchased the
Preferred Shares from the Treasury Department at par on June 17, 2009, and repurchased the Warrant for $340 million on July 29, 2009. Refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this program.
     SHARE REPURCHASES AND DIVIDENDS      The Company has a share repurchase program to return excess capital to shareholders. These share repurchases reduce shares outstanding and offset, in whole or part, the issuance of new shares as part of
employee compensation plans.      On a cumulative basis, since 1994 the Company has distributed 67 percent of capital generated
through share repurchases and dividends. No shares have been repurchased over the past seven quarters, as share repurchases were suspended during the first quarter of 2008 in light of the challenging global economic environment and limitations while
under the CPP.            FUNDING STRATEGY      The Company seeks to maintain broad and well-diversified funding sources to allow it to meet its maturing obligations, cost-effectively finance current and
future asset growth in its global businesses as well as to maintain a strong liquidity profile. The diversity of funding sources by type of debt instrument, by maturity and by investor base, among other factors, provides additional insulation from
the impact of disruptions in any one type of debt, maturity, or investor. The mix of the Company s funding in any period will seek to achieve cost-efficiency consistent with both maintaining diversified sources and achieving its liquidity
objectives. The Company s funding strategy and activities are integrated into its asset-liability management activities.      The Company s proprietary card businesses are the primary asset-generating businesses, with significant assets in both domestic and international cardmember receivable and lending activities. The Company s borrowing needs are in
large part a consequence of its proprietary card-issuing businesses and the maintenance of a liquidity position to support all of its business activities, such as merchant payments. The Company generally pays merchants for card transactions prior to
reimbursement by cardmembers and therefore funds the merchant payments during the period cardmember loans and receivables are outstanding. The Company also has additional borrowing needs associated with general corporate purposes.      FUNDING PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES      The Company meets its funding needs through a variety of sources, including debt instruments such as senior unsecured debentures, asset securitizations, deposits placed with the Company s U.S. banks by individuals and long-term
committed bank borrowing facilities in certain non-U.S. markets.         
    40    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   The following discussion includes information on both a GAAP and managed basis. The
managed basis presentation includes debt issued in connection with the Company s lending securitization activities, which are off-balance sheet. For a discussion of managed basis and management s rationale for such presentation, refer to
the USCS discussion below. The Company had the following consolidated debt, on both a GAAP and managed basis, and customer deposits outstanding as of December 31:       

    The Company s funding strategy for 2010 is to raise funds to meet short-term borrowings outstanding, which includes short-term deposits, seasonal and other working capital needs, changes in receivables and other asset balances, while
maintaining sufficient cash and readily-marketable securities, which are easily convertible to cash, in order to be able to satisfy all maturing funding obligations for a 12 month period. The Company has $7.4 billion of unsecured long-term debt,
$10.2 billion of asset securitizations, and $2.6 billion of long-term deposits that will mature during 2010.      The
Company s equity capital and funding strategies are designed to maintain appropriate and stable debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies (collectively the  Credit Rating Agencies ), Moody s Investor Services
(Moody s), Standard   Poor s (S P), Fitch Ratings (Fitch), and Dominion Bond Rating Services (DBRS). There have been no changes to the ratings since second quarter 2009, however, both DBRS and S P have recently revised
their ratings outlook from  Negative  to  Stable .       

Credit       Agency    
     
     Entity
Rated    
     
     Short-       Term       ratings    
     
     Long-       Term       ratings    
     
     Outlook     
 
    DBRS   
     
  All rated entities  
     
    R-1     (middle)   
     
    A     (high)   
     
  Stable   
 
    Fitch   
     
  All rated entities  
     
  F1  
     
  A+  
     
  Negative   
 
    Moody s   
     
    TRS and rated operating     subsidiaries   
     
  Prime-1  
     
  A2  
     
  Stable   

American Express Company  
     
  Prime-2  
     
  A3  
     
  Negative   
 
    S P   
     
  All rated entities  
     
  A-2  
     
  BBB+  
     
  Stable             Downgrades in the Company s unsecured debt or asset securitization program s securities ratings could result in higher interest expense on the
Company s unsecured debt and asset securitizations, as well as higher fees related to borrowings under its unused lines of credit. In addition to increased funding costs, declines in credit ratings could reduce the Company s borrowing
capacity in the unsecured debt and asset securitization capital markets. The Company believes that the change in its funding mix, which now includes an increasing proportion of U.S. retail deposits, should reduce the impacts that credit rating
downgrades would have on the Company s funding capacity and costs.      SHORT-TERM FUNDING PROGRAMS      Short-term borrowings, such as commercial paper, are defined as any debt or time deposit with an original maturity of 12 months or less. The Company s
short-term funding programs are used primarily to meet working capital needs, such as managing seasonal variations in receivables balances. Short-term borrowing decreased significantly in 2009 as part of the change in the Company s funding mix.
The amount of short-term borrowing issued in the future will depend on the Company s funding strategy, its needs and market conditions.      The Company had the following short-term borrowings outstanding as of December 31:       
    The Company s short-term borrowings as a percentage of total debt as of December 31 were as follows:       
    The Company had continuous access to the commercial paper market during 2009, and as of December 31, 2009, the Company had $1.0 billion of commercial paper outstanding. Average commercial paper outstanding was $2.0 billion and
$10.8 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively.      American Express Credit Corporation s (Credco) total back-up liquidity
coverage, which includes its undrawn committed bank facilities, was in excess of 100 percent of its net short-term borrowings as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.         
    41    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   DEPOSIT PROGRAMS      The Company offers deposits within its Centurion Bank and FSB subsidiaries (together, the  Banks ). These funds are currently insured up to $250,000 through the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC). During the second quarter of 2009, the Company, through FSB, launched a direct deposit-taking program, Personal Savings from American Express, to supplement its distribution of deposit products through third-party distribution
channels. This program, which currently represents a small portion of the Company s deposit program, makes FDIC-insured CDs and high-yield savings account products available directly to consumers.      As of December 31, 2009, the Company held the following deposits:       

(a)  
  The average original maturity and annual interest rate on outstanding U.S. retail CDs were 29 months and 2.3 percent, respectively.        LONG-TERM DEBT PROGRAMS      In 2009,
the Company and its subsidiaries issued debt and asset securitizations with maturities ranging from 2 to 10 years. These amounts included approximately $2.25 billion of AAA-rated lending securitization certificates and $6.7 billion of unsecured debt
across a variety of maturities and markets. During the year, the Company retained approximately $2.0 billion of subordinated securities, as the pricing and yields for these securities were not attractive for the Company due to market conditions. The
subordinated securities issued in the year included $1.5 billion of the new Class D securities, created as part of the actions to add further credit enhancement to the Lending Trust.      The Company s 2009 offerings, which include those made by the Parent Company, Credco, American Express Canada Credit Corporation and the
Lending Trust, are presented in the following table on both a GAAP and managed basis:       

(Billions)    
      
  Amount   
 
    American Express Company (Parent Company only):   

Fixed Rate Senior Notes at an average coupon of 7.76%   
      
  $  
  3.0   
 
    American Express Credit Corporation:   

Fixed Rate Senior Notes at an average coupon of 5.17%  (a)    

2.8   
 
    American Express Canada Credit Corporation:   

Fixed Rate Senior Notes at a coupon of 4.85%   

0.8   
 
    Floating Rate Senior Notes at a spread of 170 basis points to 3 month CDOR (b)    

0.1   

GAAP Basis   

6.7   
 
    American Express Credit Account Master Trust:   

Trust Investor Certificates at an average spread of 129 basis points to 1 month LIBOR  (c) (d)    

4.3   

Managed Basis   
      
  $  
  11.0        

(a)  
  Credco s issuance includes $79 million of unsecured debt issued within the retail note market.     

(b)  
  Canadian Dealer Offered Rate.     

(c)  
  Issuances from the Lending Trust, an off-balance sheet entity, include $2.0 billion of subordinated securities retained by American Express during the year.

(d)  
  The average coupon relates to those securities issued into the market and does not include the rates on retained securities.        ASSET SECURITIZATION PROGRAMS      The
Company periodically securitizes cardmember receivables and loans arising from its card business, as the securitization market provides the Company with cost-effective funding. Securitization of cardmember receivables and loans is accomplished
through the transfer of those assets to a Trust, which in turn issues certificates or notes (securities) to third-party investors collateralized by the transferred assets. The proceeds from issuance are distributed to the Company, through its
wholly-owned subsidiaries, as consideration for the transferred assets. Securitization transactions are accounted for as either a sale or secured borrowing, based upon the structure of the transaction and GAAP requirements applicable prior to
January 1, 2010. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the changes in GAAP requirements related to Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, effective January 1, 2010.      Securitization of cardmember receivables generated under designated consumer charge card, small business charge card and corporate charge
card accounts is accomplished through the transfer of cardmember receivables to the American Express Issuance Trust (the Charge Trust).         
    42    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 Securitization of the Company s cardmember loans generated under designated consumer lending accounts is accomplished through the transfer
(as a sale) of cardmember loans to the Lending Trust. In a securitization structure like the Lending Trust (a revolving master trust), credit card accounts are selected and the rights to the current cardmember loans, as well as future cash flows
related to the corresponding accounts, are transferred to the Trust for the life of the accounts.      Since the third quarter of
2007, the Company has typically been retaining some or all of subordinated securities issued as part of a transaction, due to prevailing market conditions.      Under the respective terms of the Lending Trust and the Charge Trust agreements, the occurrence of certain events could result in payment of trust expenses, establishment of reserve funds, or in a
worst-case scenario, early amortization of investor certificates. For additional information about the Company s asset securitizations that could affect the Company s liquidity position, including three-month average excess spread rates
and other key metrics, refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      On March 3, 2009, the Treasury
Department and the Federal Reserve launched the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF), which is currently set to expire on March 31, 2010. Securitized credit and charge card receivables are eligible collateral under the TALF,
provided the securities qualify for AAA ratings from two or more major nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (NRSROs). The Company issued $2.25 billion in AAA rated TALF eligible securities during 2009.      In an effort to address the concerns of the Credit Rating Agencies and the decline in the trust excess spread due to the performance of the
underlying credit card receivables in the Lending Trust and the related American Express Credit Account Secured Note Trusts (the  Note Trusts ), the subsidiaries of the Company that are the transferors of the Lending Trust undertook
certain actions during the second quarter of 2009 to adjust the credit enhancement structure of substantially all of the then outstanding series of securities previously issued by the Lending Trust and the Note Trusts. The actions entailed the
issuance of two new series of asset-backed securities, to provide additional credit enhancement to substantially all of the then outstanding series, and the exercise of a discount option with respect to new principal receivables arising in the
Lending Trust. The Company believes that these actions will not have a material impact on the Company s results of operations. These actions resulted in the inclusion of the Lending Trust s assets as risk-weighted assets for regulatory
capital purposes. For additional information regarding such actions, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      The
Credit Rating Agencies are assessing the potential impact of the adoption of recently issued accounting standards for transfers of financial assets and for consolidation of variable interest entities (the  Accounting Standards ) on credit
ratings of the securities issued by securitization trusts within the overall asset-backed securities market. (The Accounting Standards, previously issued as FASB Statements Nos. 166 and 167, are discussed further in Note 1 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.) In particular, the Credit Rating Agencies are assessing the FDIC s safe harbor rule relating to the FDIC s treatment of securitized assets in the event of a sponsoring financial institution s receivership or
conservatorship. Pursuant to the safe harbor rule, the FDIC will not reclaim any financial asset transferred in connection with a securitization, provided that such transfer meets all conditions for GAAP sale accounting. Because the adoption of the
Accounting Standards may cause some asset transfers to securitization trusts to no longer be deemed asset sales for accounting purposes within a company s consolidated group, the Credit Rating Agencies have indicated that they may ultimately
conclude that the safe harbor no longer applies and, in certain cases, that the highest rating an asset-backed security (ABS) could receive would be based on the sponsoring bank s unsecured debt rating, rather than relying on their separate
evaluation of the securitization trust. Accordingly, the ability of the Company s securitization programs to receive or maintain AAA ratings on ABS securities under the same terms and conditions as it has done in the past, or at all, is subject
to uncertainty. Any action by the rating agencies as described above could adversely impact the Company s ability to utilize ABS as a source of funding for its business.      LIQUIDITY STRATEGY      The Company seeks to ensure that it has adequate liquidity in
the form of cash and readily-marketable securities easily convertible into cash, to satisfy all maturing funding obligations for a 12 month period, in addition to having access to significant additional contingent liquidity sources. This objective
is managed by regularly accessing capital through a broad and diverse set of funding programs, by maintaining a portfolio of cash and readily-marketable securities, as well as a variety of contingent sources of cash and financing. The Company
maintains a liquidity plan that enables it to continuously meet its financing obligations even when access to its primary funding sources become impaired or markets become inaccessible.      In addition to its cash and readily-marketable securities, the Company continues to maintain a variety of contingent liquidity resources,
such as access to secured borrowing from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco through the Federal Reserve discount window and committed bank credit facilities.      As a result of the Company s funding activities during 2009, the Company raised funds that substantially exceeded its 2009 funding needs. The excess increased the amount of cash and
readily-marketable securities the Company holds.         
    43    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 As of December 31, 2009, the Company s cash and readily-marketable securities available to fund maturities were as follows:

(Billions)    
      
  Total  

Cash   
      
  $    
  19.0    
   (a)     
 
    Readily-marketable securities   

13.3    
   (b)     

Cash and readily marketable securities   

32.3  

Less:   

Operating cash   

(3.2    
  ) (c)     
 
    Short-term obligations outstanding   

(3.2    
  ) (d)     

Cash and readily-marketable securities available to fund maturities   
      
  $  
  25.9  

(a)  
  Includes cash and cash equivalents of $15.5 billion and $3.5 billion held in other assets and other receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheet for certain
forthcoming asset-backed securitization maturities in the first quarter of 2010.     

(b)  
  Consists of certain available-for-sale investment securities (U.S. Treasury and agency securities, and government-guaranteed debt) that are considered highly liquid.

(c)  
  Cash on hand for day-to-day operations.     

(d)  
  Consists of commercial paper, and U.S. retail CDs with original maturities of three and six months.        The upcoming approximate maturities of the Company s long-term unsecured debt, debt issued in connection with off-balance sheet securitizations, and
long-term customer deposits are as follows:       
    The Company s funding needs for 2010 are expected to arise from these debt and deposit maturities as well as changes in business needs, primarily changes in outstanding cardmember loans and receivables.      The Company considers various factors in determining the amount of liquidity it maintains, such as economic and financial market conditions,
seasonality in business operations, growth in its businesses, the cost and availability of alternative liquidity sources, and regulatory and Credit Rating Agency considerations.      The yield the Company receives on its cash and readily-marketable securities is, generally, less than the interest expense on the sources of
funding for these balances. Thus, the Company incurs substantial net interest costs on these amounts. The level of net interest costs will be dependent on the size of its cash and readily-marketable securities holdings, as well as the difference
between its cost of funding these amounts and their investment yields.      Cash and Readily-Marketable Securities      As of December 31, 2009, the Company held, as part of its contingent liquidity plan, a total of $19.0 billion of short-term instruments and $13.3
billion of longer-term readily-marketable securities. These investments are of high credit quality, highly liquid short-term instruments and longer-term, highly liquid instruments, such as U.S. Treasury securities, government-sponsored entity debt,
or government-guaranteed debt. These instruments are managed to either mature prior to the maturity of borrowings that will occur within the next 12 months, or are sufficiently liquid that the Company can sell them or enter into sale/repurchase
agreements to immediately raise cash proceeds to meet liquidity needs.      Federal Reserve Discount Window      The Banks are insured depository institutions that have the capability of borrowing from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, subject to the amount of
qualifying collateral that they pledge. The Banks are approved to access the discount window, subject to the discretion of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and sufficient credit and charge card receivables pledged as collateral, thereby
providing them with an additional source of liquidity, if needed.      The Company had approximately $33.2 billion as of
December 31, 2009, in U.S. credit card loans and charge card receivables that could be sold over time through its existing securitization trusts, or pledged in return for secured borrowings to provide further liquidity, subject in each case to
applicable market conditions and eligibility criteria.      Committed Bank Credit Facilities      The Company maintained committed bank credit facilities as of December 31, 2009 as follows:       

(a)  
  Committed lines were supplied by 34 financial institutions as of year end. However, effective January 20, 2010, the agreements in which Aurora Bank FSB (previously
Lehman Brothers Bank FSB) participated, were amended, and their participation waived. This reduced the total committed lines by $175 million.           
    44    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 The Company s committed facilities expire as follows:       
    The availability of the credit lines is subject to the Company s compliance with certain financial covenants, including the maintenance by the Company of consolidated tangible net worth of at least $4.1 billion, the maintenance by
Credco of a 1.25 ratio of combined earnings and fixed charges to fixed charges, and the compliance by the Banks with applicable regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. As of December 31, 2009, the Company s consolidated tangible net worth
was approximately $11.6 billion, Credco s ratio of combined earnings and fixed charges to fixed charges was 1.59 and Centurion Bank and FSB each exceeded their regulatory capital adequacy guidelines.      Committed bank credit facilities do not contain material adverse change clauses, which may preclude borrowing under the credit facilities.
The facilities may not be terminated should there be a change in the Company s credit rating.      In consideration of all the
funding sources described above, the Company believes it would have access to liquidity to satisfy all maturing funding obligations for at least a 12-month period in the event that access to the secured and unsecured fixed income capital markets is
completely interrupted for that length of time. These events are not considered likely to occur.      Parent Company Funding
     Parent Company long-term debt outstanding was $10.2 billion and $7.9 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During
2009, the Parent Company issued $1.25 billion of 7.25 percent fixed-rate Senior Notes due 2014 and $1.75 billion of 8.13 percent fixed-rate Senior Notes due 2019.      The Parent Company is authorized to issue commercial paper. This program is supported by a $1.25 billion multi-purpose committed bank credit facility. The credit facility will expire in 2010 and 2012 in
the amounts of $500 million and $750 million, respectively. There was no Parent Company commercial paper outstanding during 2009 and 2008, and no borrowings have been made under its bank credit facility.      OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS      The Company has identified both on- and off-balance sheet transactions, arrangements, obligations, and other relationships that may have a material current or future effect on its financial condition,
changes in financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity and capital resources.         
    45    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS      The table below identifies transactions that represent contractually committed future obligations of the Company. Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods and services that are
enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.       

(a)  
  The above table excludes approximately $1.1 billion of tax liabilities that have been recorded in accordance with GAAP governing the accounting for uncertainty in
income taxes as inherent complexities and the number of tax years currently open for examination in multiple jurisdictions do not permit reasonable estimates of payments, if any, to be made over a range of years.     

(b)  
  Estimated interest payments were calculated using the effective interest rate in place at December 31, 2009, and reflects the effect of existing interest rate
swaps. Actual cash flows may differ from estimated payments.     

(c)  
  At December 31, 2009, there were no minimum required contributions, and no contributions are currently planned, for the U.S. American Express Retirement Plan. For
the U.S. American Express Supplemental Retirement Plan and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans, contributions in 2010 are anticipated to be approximately $88 million, and this amount has been included within other
long-term liabilities. Remaining obligations under defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans aggregating $642 million have not been included in the table above as the timing of such obligations is not determinable. Additionally, other
long-term liabilities do not include $4.3 billion of Membership Rewards liabilities, which are not considered long-term liabilities as cardmembers in good standing can redeem points immediately, without restrictions, and because the timing of point
redemption is not determinable.     

(d)  
  The purchase obligation amounts represent non-cancelable minimum contractual obligations by period under contracts that were in effect at December 31, 2009.
Termination fees are included in these amounts.            The Company
also has certain contingent obligations to make payments under contractual agreements entered into as part of the ongoing operation of the Company s business, primarily with co-brand partners. The contingent obligations under such arrangements
were approximately $6.0 billion as of December 31, 2009.      In addition to the contractual obligations noted above, the
Company has off-balance sheet arrangements that include guarantees, retained interests in structured investments, unconsolidated variable interest entities and other off-balance sheet arrangements as more fully described below.      GUARANTEES      The Company s
principal guarantees are associated with cardmember services to enhance the value of owning an American Express card. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had guarantees totaling approximately $67 billion related to cardmember protection plans,
as well as other guarantees in the ordinary course of business that are within the scope of GAAP governing the accounting for guarantees. Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the Company s
guarantees.            CERTAIN OTHER OFF-BALANCE SHEET
ARRANGEMENTS      As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately $222 billion of unused credit available to cardmembers as part of
established lending product agreements. Total unused credit available to cardmembers does not represent potential future cash requirements, as a significant portion of this unused credit will likely not be drawn. The Company s charge card
products have no pre-set limit and, therefore, are not reflected in unused credit available to cardmembers. As discussed in the Consolidated Liquidity and Capital Resources section, the Company s securitizations of cardmember loans are also
off-balance sheet. The Company s cardmember receivables securitizations remain on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.      Refer
to Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion regarding the Company s other off-balance sheet arrangements.               
    46    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   RISK MANAGEMENT      GOVERNANCE      The Audit and Risk Committee of the Board approves the Company s
Enterprise-wide Risk Management Policy, which defines risk management objectives, risk appetite, risk limits and escalation triggers, and establishes the internal governance structure for managing risk. The Policy focuses on the major risks that are
relevant to the Company given its business model   credit risk (institutional and individual), operational risk, market risk and reputational risk. Internal management committees, including the Enterprise Risk Management Committee (ERMC),
chaired by the Company s Chief Risk Officer, and the Asset-Liability Committee (ALCO), chaired by the Company s Chief Financial Officer, are responsible for implementing the Policy across the Company.      CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS      Credit risk is defined as the risk of loss due to obligor or counterparty default. Credit risks in the Company are divided into two broad categories: individual and institutional. Each has distinct risk management tools and metrics.
Business units that create individual or institutional credit risk exposures of significant importance are supported by dedicated risk management teams, each led by Chief Credit Officers. To preserve independence, Chief Credit Officers for all
business units have a solid line reporting relationship to the Company s Chief Risk Officer.      INDIVIDUAL CREDIT RISK
     Individual credit risk arises principally from consumer and small business charge cards, credit cards, lines of credit, and loans. These
portfolios consist of millions of borrowers across multiple geographies, occupations, industries and levels of net worth. The Company benefits from the attractive profile of its cardmembers, which is driven by brand, underwriting, and customer
management policies, premium customer servicing, and product reward features. The risk in these portfolios is correlated with broad economic trends, such as unemployment rates, GDP growth, and home values, as well as customer liquidity, which can
have a material effect on credit performance.      General principles and the overall framework for managing individual credit risk
across the Company are defined in the Individual Credit Risk Policy approved by the ERMC. The Credit Policy Committee is responsible for implementation and enforcement of this policy and for providing guidance to the Underwriting and Credit Strategy
Committees as well as to the Chief Credit Officers of respective business units. This policy is further supported by subordinate policies and practices covering all facets of credit extension, including prospecting, approvals, authorizations, line
management, collections, and fraud prevention. These policies are designed to assure consistent application of risk management principles and standardized reporting of asset quality and loss recognition.      Individual credit risk management is supported by sophisticated proprietary scoring and decision-making models that use the most up-to-date
proprietary information on customers, such as spending and payment history, data feeds from credit bureaus, and mortgage information. Additional data, such as home value and other new commercial variables designed to better manage small business
risk, were integrated into the Company s models in the early stages of the recent economic downturn to further mitigate risk. The Company has developed unique decision logic for each customer interaction, including prospect targeting, new
account approvals, line assignment, balance transfers, cross selling and overall account management and collection.      INSTITUTIONAL CREDIT RISK      Institutional credit risk arises principally within the Company s Global Corporate Card
Services, Merchant Services and Network Services businesses, and from the Company s investment activities. Unlike individual credit risk, institutional credit risk is characterized by a lower loss frequency but higher severity. It is affected
both by general economic conditions and by company-specific events. The absence of large losses in any given year or over several years is not necessarily representative of the level of risk of institutional portfolios, given the infrequency of loss
events in such portfolios.      General principles and the overall framework for managing institutional credit risk across the
Company are defined in the Institutional Credit Risk Policy approved by the ERMC. The Institutional Risk Management Committee (IRMC) is responsible for implementation and enforcement of this policy and for providing guidance to the credit officers
of each business unit with substantial institutional credit risk exposures, who in turn make investment decisions in core risk capabilities, ensure proper implementation of the underwriting standards and contractual rights of risk mitigation,
monitor risk exposures, and determine risk mitigation actions. The IRMC formally reviews large institutional exposures to ensure compliance with ERMC guidelines and procedures and escalates them to the ERMC as appropriate. At the same time, the IRMC
provides guidance to business unit risk teams to optimize risk-adjusted returns on capital. A company-wide risk rating utility and a specialized airline risk group provide risk assessment of institutional obligors.      MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS      Market risk is the risk to earnings or value resulting from movements in market prices. The Company s market risk exposure is primarily generated by:       

Interest rate risk in its card, insurance and Travelers Cheque businesses, as well as its investment portfolios; and          

Foreign exchange risk in its international operations.            
    47    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 General principles and the overall framework for managing market risk across the Company are defined in the Market Risk Policy, which is the
responsibility of the ALCO. Market Risk limits and escalation triggers within that policy are approved by ALCO and by the ERMC. Market risk is centrally monitored for compliance with policy and limits by the Market Risk Committee, which reports into
the ALCO and is chaired by the Chief Market Risk Officer. Market risk management is also guided by policies covering the use of derivative financial instruments, funding and liquidity and investments. Derivative financial instruments derive their
value from an underlying variable or multiple variables, including interest rate, foreign exchange, and equity indices or prices. These instruments enable end users to increase, reduce or alter exposure to various market risks and, for that reason,
are an integral component of the Company s market risk management. Use of derivative financial instruments is incorporated into the discussion below as well as Note 12.      The Company s market exposures are in large part by-products of the delivery of its products and services. Interest rate risk arises
through the funding of cardmember receivables and fixed-rate loans with variable-rate borrowings as well as through the risk to net interest margin from changes in the relationship between benchmark rates such as Prime and LIBOR.      Interest rate exposure within the Company s charge card and fixed-rate lending products is managed by varying the proportion of total
funding provided by short-term and variable-rate debt and deposits compared to fixed-rate debt and deposits. In addition, interest rate swaps are used from time to time to effectively convert fixed-rate debt to variable- rate or to convert
variable-rate debt to fixed-rate. The Company may change the mix between variable-rate and fixed-rate funding based on changes in business volumes and mix, among other factors. The majority of its cardmember loans, which are linked to a benchmark
rate such as PRIME that can reprice monthly, are funded with variable-rate funding, the majority of which are linked to LIBOR that reprice monthly.      The Company regularly reviews its interest rate exposure profile and may modify it. Derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps, with notional amounts of approximately $17 billion and
$18 billion were outstanding at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These derivatives generally qualify for hedge accounting. A portion of these derivatives outstanding as of December 31, 2009, extend to 2018. The Company does not
engage in derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.      The detrimental effect on the Company s pretax earnings
of a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would be approximately $117 million ($75 million related to the U.S. dollar), based on the 2009 year-end positions. This effect, which is calculated using a static asset liability gapping
model, is primarily determined by the volume of variable-rate funding of charge card and fixed-rate lending products for which the interest rate exposure is not managed by derivative financial instruments. As of year end 2009, the percentage of
total worldwide managed loans that were deemed to be fixed-rate was 34 percent, with the remaining 66 percent deemed to be variable rate.      The Company is also subject to market risk from changes in the relationship between the benchmark Prime rate that determines the yield on its variable-rate lending receivables and the benchmark LIBOR rate
that determines the effective interest cost on a significant portion of its outstanding debt, including asset securitizations. Simultaneous and identically-sized changes in the same direction of these two indices do not contribute to the market risk
described above, as there is no material mismatch in the effective repricing frequency of these two indices. However, differences in the rate of change of these two indices, commonly referred to as basis risk, would impact the Company s
variable-rate U.S. lending net interest margins because the Company borrows at rates based on LIBOR but lends to its customers based on the Prime rate. The detrimental effect on the Company s pretax earnings of a hypothetical 10 basis point
decrease in the spread between Prime and 1 month LIBOR over the next 12 months is estimated to be $38 million. The Company currently has approximately $38.2 billion of Prime-based, variable-rate U.S. lending receivables that are funded with
LIBOR-indexed debt, including asset securitizations. The spread relationship has been more volatile over the last 2   1   /  2   years than in preceding historical periods. For example, the spread experienced during the fourth quarter of 2008 was very low by historical standards and reduced net interest
margins; during the fourth quarter of 2009, the spread was high by historical standards, which had the effect of temporarily increasing the Company s net interest margin from prior periods.       Foreign exchange risk is generated by cardmember cross-currency charges, foreign subsidiary equity and foreign currency earnings in
international units. The Company s foreign exchange risk is managed primarily by entering into agreements to buy and sell currencies on a spot basis or by hedging this market exposure to the extent it is economically justified through various
means, including the use of derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forwards, options, and cross-currency swap contracts, which can help  lock in  the value of the Company s exposure to specific currencies.
     At December 31, 2009 and 2008, foreign currency hedge instruments with total notional amounts of approximately $19
billion and $17 billion, respectively, were outstanding. Derivative hedging activities related to cross-currency charges, balance sheet exposures, and foreign currency earnings generally do not qualify for hedge accounting; however, derivative
hedging activities related to translation exposure of foreign subsidiary equity generally do.      With respect to cross-currency
charges and balance sheet exposures, including related foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding, the effect on the Company s earnings
        
    48    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
of a hypothetical 10 percent change in the value of the U.S. dollar would be immaterial as of December 31, 2009. With respect to earnings denominated in foreign currencies, the adverse
impact on pretax income of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the U.S. dollar related to anticipated overseas operating results for the next 12 months would be approximately $112 million as of December 31, 2009. With respect to
translation exposure of foreign subsidiary equity, including related foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding, a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening in the U.S. dollar would result in an immaterial reduction in equity as of
December 31, 2009.      The actual impact of interest rate and foreign exchange rate changes will depend on, among other
factors, the timing of rate changes, the extent to which different rates do not move in the same direction or in the same direction to the same degree, and changes in the volume and mix of the Company s businesses.      FUNDING   LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS      Funding   liquidity risk is defined as the inability to access cash and equivalents needed to meet business requirements and satisfy the Company s obligations. General principles and the
overall framework for managing liquidity risk across the Company are defined in the Liquidity Risk Policy, which is the responsibility of the ALCO. The Company balances the trade-offs between maintaining too much liquidity, which can be costly and
limit financial flexibility, with having inadequate liquidity, which may result in financial distress during a liquidity event. Liquidity risk is centrally managed by the Funding and Liquidity Committee, which reports into the ALCO and is chaired by
the Corporate Treasurer. The Company has developed a liquidity plan that enables it to meet its daily cash obligations when access to both unsecured and secured funds in the debt capital markets is impaired or unavailable. This plan is designed to
ensure that the Company and all of its main operating entities could continuously meet their maturing debt obligations for a 12-month period in which their access to all capital markets and deposit financing is interrupted.      Liquidity risk is managed both at an aggregate company level and at the major legal entities in order to ensure that sufficient funding and
liquidity resources are available in the amount and in the location needed in a stress event. The Funding and Liquidity Committee manages the forecasts of the Company s aggregate and subsidiary cash positions and financing requirements, the
funding plans designed to satisfy those requirements under normal conditions, establishes guidelines to identify the amount of liquidity resources required, and monitors positions and determines any actions to be taken. Liquidity planning also takes
into account operating cash flexibilities.            OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS      The Company defines operational risk as the risk of not achieving business objectives due
to inadequate or failed processes or information systems, human error or the external environment (e.g., natural disasters) including losses due to failures to comply with laws and regulations. Operational risk is inherent in all business activities
and can impact an organization through direct or indirect financial loss, brand damage, customer dissatisfaction, or legal or regulatory penalties. Current areas of significant focus include data protection, anti-money laundering, vendor risk,
impact of organizational change, financial reporting risk and both internal and external fraud.      The general principles and the
overall framework for managing operational risk across the Company are defined in the Operational Risk Policy approved by the ERMC. The Operational Risk Management Committee (ORMC) provides governance for the operational risk framework.   
  In order to appropriately measure operational risk, the Company has developed a comprehensive operational risk model. This model assesses
(i) risk events, i.e. what occurred or could have occurred; (ii) root causes, i.e. why did it occur or could have occurred; and (iii) impact, i.e. how was the Company affected or might have been affected. The impact on the Company is
assessed from a financial, brand, regulatory and legal perspective. The operational risk model also assesses the frequency and likelihood that events may occur again so that the appropriate mitigation steps may be taken.      Additionally, the Company uses an operational risk framework to identify, measure, monitor, and report inherent and emerging operational
risks. This framework consists of a) the ORMC oversight, b) an operational risk event capture process, and c) process and entity-level risk self-assessments.      The process risk self-assessment methodology is used to facilitate compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and is also used for non-financial operational risk self- assessments. This
methodology involves identifying key processes across the Company and then determining the inherent operational risks. Once these risks have been identified, the existing control environment is defined, key controls are tested and relevant issues
are escalated to the appropriate governing bodies.      The operational risk framework also includes the entity risk
self-assessment. This is a risk workshop where senior leaders identify the key operational risks that the business unit or support group faces and determines the Company s preparedness to respond should these risks occur. Top risks are tracked
to ensure that the appropriate monitoring or mitigation is in place.      Managing enterprise risk is an important priority for the
Company and the program continues to evolve.         
    49    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS      The Company is a global service company principally engaged in businesses comprising four reportable operating segments: U.S. Card Services (USCS), International Card Services (ICS), Global Commercial
Services (GCS) and Global Network   Merchant Services (GNMS).      The Company considers a combination of factors when
evaluating the composition of its reportable operating segments, including the results reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, economic characteristics, products and services offered, classes of customers, product distribution channels,
geographic considerations (primarily U.S. versus international), and regulatory environment considerations. Refer to Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of products and services by segment.      Results of the business segments essentially treat each segment as a stand-alone business. The management reporting process that derives
these results allocates income and expense using various methodologies as described below.      TOTAL REVENUES NET OF INTEREST
EXPENSE      The Company allocates discount revenue and certain other revenues among segments using a transfer pricing methodology. Segments earn
discount revenue based on the volume of merchant business generated by cardmembers. Within the USCS, ICS, and GCS segments, discount revenue reflects the issuer component of the overall discount rate; within the GNMS segment, discount revenue
reflects the network and merchant component of the overall discount rate. Total interest income and net card fees are directly attributable to the segment in which they are reported.      PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES      The provisions for losses are directly attributable to the
segment in which they are reported.      EXPENSES      Marketing and promotion expenses are reflected in each segment based on actual expenses incurred, with the exception of brand advertising, which is primarily reflected in the GNMS and USCS segments.
Rewards and cardmember services expenses are reflected in each segment based on actual expenses incurred within each segment.      Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses, such as professional services, occupancy and equipment and communications, reflect expenses incurred directly within each segment. In addition, expenses related to the
Company s support services, such as technology costs, are allocated to each segment based on support service activities directly attributable to the segment. Other overhead expenses, such as staff group support functions, are allocated to
segments based on each segment s relative level of pretax income. Financing requirements are managed on a consolidated basis. Funding costs are allocated based on segment funding requirements.            CAPITAL      Each business segment is allocated capital based on established business model operating requirements, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements.
Business model operating requirements include capital needed to support operations and specific balance sheet items. The risk measures include considerations for credit, market, and operational risk.      INCOME TAXES      Income tax provision
(benefit) is allocated to each business segment based on the effective tax rates applicable to various businesses that make up the segment.      U.S. CARD SERVICES      SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA GAAP BASIS PRESENTATION           
       
    50    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION   (      a      )              

(a)  
  See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information.     

(b)  
  Segment capital at the end of each respective period represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and
regulatory capital requirements.     

(d)  
  In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in USCS are written off to 180 days past due, consistent
with applicable bank regulatory guidance. Previously, receivables were written off when 360 days past billing. The net write-offs for 2008 include approximately $341 million resulting from this write-off methodology change, which is not reflected in
the table above. If the $341 million had been included in USCS write-offs, the net write-off rate would have been 5.4 percent for 2008.     

(e)  
   Owned,  a GAAP basis measurement, reflects only cardmember loans included on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(f)  
  See below for calculations of net interest yield on cardmember loans and the ratio of net interest income divided by average loans presented on an owned basis. The
Company believes net interest yield on cardmember loans (on both an owned and managed basis) is useful to investors because it provides a measure of profitability of the Company s cardmember loans portfolio.     

(g)  
  Includes on-balance sheet cardmember loans and off-balance sheet securitized cardmember loans. The difference between the  owned basis  (GAAP) information and
 managed basis  information is attributable to the effects of securitization activities. Refer to the information set forth under USCS Selected Financial Information for further discussion of the managed basis presentation.

(h)  
  This calculation includes elements of total interest income and total interest expense that are not attributable to the cardmember loan portfolio, and thus is not
representative of net interest yield on cardmember loans. The calculation includes interest income and interest expense attributable to investment securities and other interest-bearing deposits as well as to cardmember loans, and interest expense
attributable to other activities, including cardmember receivables.        CALCULATION OF NET
INTEREST YIELD ON CARDMEMBER LOANS   (      a      )   

(a)  
  See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information.           
    51    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009   GAAP BASIS
     The following discussion of USCS segment results of operations is presented on a GAAP basis.      USCS reported segment income of $249 million for 2009, a $603 million or 71 percent decrease from $852 million in 2008, which decreased
$971million or 53 percent from 2007.      Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense      In 2009, USCS total revenues net of interest expense decreased $2.1 billion or 15 percent to $11.9 billion due to lower securitization income, net, decreased
interest income and lower discount revenue, net card fees and other, partially offset by lower interest expense. Discount revenue, net card fees and other of $9.1 billion in 2009 decreased $1.2 billion or 12 percent from 2008, due to lower billed
business volumes, reduced other commissions and fees, decreased net card fees, lower other revenues and reduced travel commissions and fees. The decrease in billed business reflected a 10 percent decrease in basic cards-in-force and a 5 percent
decline in average basic cardmember spending. In 2009 within USCS, small business and consumer billed business volumes declined 13 percent and 10 percent, respectively. Interest income of $3.2 billion in 2009 was $1.5 billion or 32 percent lower
than in 2008, primarily due to lower portfolio yields and a decrease in average owned lending balances. Interest expense of $855 million in 2009 decreased $1.3 billion or 61 percent as compared to a year ago, primarily due to lower market interest
rate-driven cost of funds and reduced average owned cardmember loans and receivable balances. Total revenues net of interest expense of $14.0 billion in 2008 were $225 million or 2 percent lower than 2007 as a result of lower securitization income,
net, decreased other commissions and fees and lower interest income, partially offset by slightly higher discount revenue, net card fees and other, as well as lower interest expense.      Provisions for Losses      Provisions for losses decreased $620 million or 14 percent
to $3.8 billion for 2009 compared to 2008, due to lower loan balances and improving credit indicators during the second half of 2009. The lending net write-off rate increased in the first half of the year and then began to improve in the third and
fourth quarter. Past due rates rose early in the year but then showed improvement through the remainder of the year commencing in the second quarter. The write-off and past due rates reflect in part targeted efforts to manage credit performance such
as reducing high loan balances, as well as the impact of customer assistance programs, including the re-aging of cardmember accounts meeting certain criteria.      Provisions for losses increased $1.4 billion or 46 percent to $4.4 billion for 2008 compared to 2007 due to higher write-off and delinquency rates in the lending and charge portfolios reflecting the
challenging U.S. credit environment.            Expenses
     During 2009, USCS  expenses decreased $669 million or 8 percent to $7.8 billion, due to lower marketing, promotion, rewards and
cardmember services expenses and lower salaries and employee benefits and total operating expenses. Expenses in 2009, 2008, and 2007, included $12 million, $30 million, and $13 million, respectively, of charges related to reengineering activities
primarily related to the Company s reengineering initiatives in 2009 and 2008 as previously discussed and reengineering activities within consumer and small business services in 2007. Expenses in 2008 of $8.5 billion were $27 million or less
than 1 percent lower than in 2007, due to lower marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses, partially offset by greater salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses, net.      Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses decreased $571 million or 12 percent in 2009 to $4.3 billion, due to lower
rewards costs, reduced marketing and promotion expenses and the Delta-related charge to the Membership Reward balance sheet reserve in the fourth quarter of 2008. Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses decreased $303 million
or 6 percent in 2008 to $4.8 billion, due to the Membership Rewards related charge in 2007 noted above, the incremental business-building expenses in 2007 compared to lower marketing and promotion expenses in 2008, partially offset by the
Delta-related charge in 2008 to increase the Membership Rewards liability and higher volume-related rewards costs. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses of $3.5 billion in 2009 decreased $98 million or 3 percent from 2008,
reflecting the benefits from reengineering activities, lower net charges associated with these reengineering programs, the favorable impact in 2008 related to fair value hedge ineffectiveness and the costs related to the Delta contract extension in
the fourth quarter of 2008. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses of $3.6 billion in 2008 increased $276 million or 8 percent from 2007. The increase was due to higher software, operations, technology and credit and collection
costs, the pension-related gain in 2007 and costs related to the Company s reengineering initiatives in 2008.      Income
Taxes      The effective tax rate was 23 percent for 2009 compared to 25 percent and 33 percent for 2008 and 2007, respectively. The rates for each
of these years reflect tax benefits related to the resolution of certain prior years  tax items.      DIFFERENCES BETWEEN GAAP
AND MANAGED BASIS PRESENTATION      Due to changes in GAAP governing the accounting for transfers of financial assets effective January 1,
2010 that will result in the consolidation of the Lending Trust, the presentation of financial and statistical information on a
        
    52    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
GAAP and managed basis as described below will no longer be applicable beginning in 2010.      For USCS, the managed basis presentation assumes that there have been no off-balance sheet securitization transactions, i.e., all securitized cardmember loans and related income effects are reflected as
if they were in the Company s balance sheets and income statements, respectively. For the managed basis presentation, revenue and expenses related to securitized cardmember loans are reflected in other commissions and fees (included in discount
revenue, net card fees and other in the USCS Selected Financial Information), interest income, interest expense, and provisions for losses. On a managed basis, there is no securitization income, net as the managed basis presentation assumes no
securitization transactions have occurred.      The Company presents USCS information on a managed basis because that is the way
the Company s management views and manages the business. Management believes that a full picture of trends in the Company s cardmember loans business can only be derived by evaluating the performance of both securitized and non-securitized
cardmember loans. Management also believes that use of a managed basis presentation presents a more accurate picture of the key dynamics of the cardmember loans business. Irrespective of the on- and off-balance sheet funding mix, it is important for
management and investors to see metrics for the entire cardmember loans portfolio because they are more representative of the economics of the aggregate cardmember relationships and ongoing business performance and trends over time. It is also
important for investors to see the overall growth of cardmember loans and related revenue in order to evaluate market share. These metrics are significant in evaluating the Company s performance and can only be properly assessed when all
non-securitized and securitized cardmember loans are viewed together on a managed basis. The Company does not currently securitize international loans.      On a GAAP basis, revenue and expenses from securitized cardmember loans are reflected in the Company s income statements in securitization income, net, fees and commissions, and provisions for losses
for cardmember loans. At the time of a securitization transaction, the securitized cardmember loans are removed from the Company s balance sheet, and the resulting gain on sale is reflected in securitization income, net as well as an impact to
provisions for losses (credit reserves are no longer recorded for the cardmember loans once sold). Over the life of a securitization transaction, the Company recognizes servicing fees and other net revenues (referred to as  excess spread )
related to the interests sold to investors (i.e., the investors  interests). These amounts, in addition to changes in the fair value of interest-only strips, are reflected in securitization income, net and fees and commissions. The Company also
recognizes total interest income over the life of the securitization transaction related to the interest it retains (i.e., the seller s interest). At the maturity of a securitization transaction, cardmember loans on the balance sheet increase,
and the impact of the incremental required loss reserves is recorded in provisions for losses.      As presented, in aggregate over
the life of a securitization transaction, the pretax income impact to the Company is the same whether or not the Company had securitized cardmember loans or funded these loans through other financing activities (assuming the same financing costs).
The income statement classifications, however, of specific items will differ.      U.S. CARD SERVICES      SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGED BASIS PRESENTATION       

(a)  
  Refer to discussion of Differences Between GAAP and Managed Basis Presentation above.           
    53    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 CALCULATION OF NET INTEREST YIELD ON CARDMEMBER LOANS   (      a      )(      b      )              

(a)  
  See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information.     

(b)  
  Refer to Calculation of Net Interest Yield on Cardmember Loans    Owned Basis  on page 33 for calculation of the ratio of net interest income
divided by average loans presented on an owned basis.     

(c)  
  Includes the GAAP to managed basis securitization adjustments to interest income and interest expense as set forth under USCS Selected Financial Information managed
basis presentation.        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009   MANAGED BASIS
     The following discussion of USCS is on a managed basis.      Discount revenue, net card fees and other in 2009 decreased $1.3 billion or 12 percent to $9.5 billion, due to lower billed business volumes, reduced other commissions and fees, decreased net card fees,
lower other revenues and reduced travel commissions and fees. Discount revenue, net card fees and other in 2008 increased $204 million or 2 percent to $10.8 billion, largely due to higher net card fees, greater other revenues, higher travel
commissions and fees, and increased discount revenues, which were partially offset by lower other commissions and fees. Interest income in 2009 of $6.3 billion decreased by $1.9 billion or 23 percent, due to a decline in the average managed lending
balance and a lower portfolio yield, offset by the benefits of certain repricing initiatives during 2009. Interest income in 2008 of $8.2 billion remained flat as lower market interest rate-driven yields more than offset the 10 percent growth in
average managed lending balances. Interest expense in 2009 decreased $1.9 billion or 63 percent to $1.1 billion, due to a lower market interest rate-driven cost of funds and lower average managed cardmember loans and receivable balances, as well as
the movement of liquidity-related interest expense to the Corporate   Other segment. In 2008, interest expense decreased $793 million or 21 percent to $3.0 billion due to a lower market interest rate-driven cost of funds, which more than
offset higher average managed receivable balances. Provisions for losses decreased 1 percent in 2009, driven by a lower average loan and receivable balance and improved charge card credit performance, partially offset by a higher lending write-off
level versus 2008. Provisions for losses increased $2.5 billion or 65 percent to $6.4 billion in 2008, reflecting the impact of higher write-off and delinquency rates and higher average managed loan balances, partially offset by the credit-related
charge in 2007.      INTERNATIONAL CARD SERVICES      SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA           
       
    54    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION   (      a      )              

(a)  
  See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information.     

(b)  
  Segment capital at the end of each respective period represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and
regulatory capital requirements.     

(d)  
  A cardmember account is considered 90 days past billing if payment has not been received within 90 days of the cardmember s billing statement date. In addition, if
the Company initiates collection procedures on an account prior to the account becoming 90 days past billing, the associated cardmember receivable balance is considered as 90 days past billing. A cardmember account becomes past due if payment is not
received within 30 days after the billing statement date.     

(e)  
  See below for calculation of net interest yield on cardmember loans and the ratio of net interest income divided by average loans. The Company believes net interest
yield on cardmember loans is useful to investors because it provides a measure of profitability of the Company s cardmember loans portfolio.     

(f)  
  This calculation includes elements of total interest income and total interest expense that are not attributable to the cardmember loan portfolio, and thus is not
representative of net interest yield on cardmember loans. The calculation includes interest income and interest expense attributable to investment securities and other interest-bearing deposits as well as to cardmember loans, and interest expense
attributable to other activities, including cardmember receivables.        CALCULATION OF NET
INTEREST YIELD ON CARDMEMBER LOANS   (      a      )   

(a)  
  See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information.        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009      ICS reported segment income of $303 million for 2009, a $48 million or 14 percent decrease from $351 million in 2008, which increased $60 million or 21 percent from 2007. A significant portion of ICS
segment income in 2009 and 2008 is attributable to the Company s internal tax allocation process. See further discussion in the Income Tax section below.      Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense      In 2009, ICS  total revenues net of
interest expense decreased $298 million or 6 percent to $4.5 billion compared to 2008 due to lower discount revenue, net card fees and other and decreased interest income, partially offset by lower interest expense. Discount revenue, net card fees,
and other revenues decreased $354 million or 9 percent to $3.4 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, driven primarily by the lower level of card spending, decreased other commissions and fees, lower other revenues and reduced travel commissions and
fees, partially offset by an increase in net card fees. The 11 percent decrease
        
    55    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
in billed business in 2009 reflected a 6 percent decrease in average spending per proprietary basic cards-in-force and an 8 percent decrease in basic cards-in-force. Assuming no changes in
foreign currency exchange rates from 2008 to 2009, billed business decreased 4 percent and average spending per proprietary basic cards-in-force increased 1 percent in 2009. Volume comparisons within the major geographic regions ranged from a
low-single-digit increase in Latin America to mid-single-digit decreases in Asia Pacific, Europe and Canada   3   . Interest income declined $396 million or 20 percent to $1.6 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to an 18
percent reduction in average cardmember loans and lower interest on bank and other deposits, partially offset by a higher cardmember loan portfolio yield. Interest expense of $509 million in 2009 declined $452 million or 47 percent, as compared to
2008, due to lower average loan and receivable balances, as well as a decreased cost of funds. Total revenues net of interest expense of $4.8 billion in 2008 were $450 million or 10 percent higher than 2007 due to higher discount revenue, net card
fees and other and increased interest income, partially offset by higher interest expense.      Provisions for Losses   
  Provisions for losses increased $181 million or 18 percent to $1.2 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily reflecting a higher lending reserve level.
Provisions for losses increased $218 million or 27 percent to $1.0 billion in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to increased reserve levels due to the challenging economic environment and loan and business volume growth.      Expenses      During 2009, ICS 
expenses decreased $556 million or 15 percent to $3.0 billion compared to 2008, due to lower marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services and decreased salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses. Expenses in 2009, 2008, and
2007, included $4 million, $83 million, and $16 million, respectively, of reengineering costs primarily related to the Company s reengineering initiatives in 2009 and 2008 as previously       

3   
  Refer to footnote 2 on page 34 under Consolidated Results of Operations for the Three Years Ended December 31, 2009 relating to changes in foreign exchange rates.
       discussed and reengineering in the international payments business for 2007. Expenses in 2008 of $3.6 billion were $196 million
or 6 percent higher than 2007, due to increased salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses, partially offset by lower marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services costs.      Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses decreased $232 million or 16 percent to $1.2 billion in 2009 compared to 2008,
reflecting reduced marketing and promotion expenses through the first nine months of 2009 and lower reward costs. Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses decreased $113 million or 7 percent to $1.5 billion in 2008 compared to
2007, due to the Membership Rewards related charge and the incremental business-building costs in 2007 noted above, which more than offset higher marketing and promotion expenses, and volume-related rewards costs in 2008. Salaries and employee
benefits and other operating expenses decreased $324 million or 15 percent to $1.8 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to benefits from the Company s reengineering activities and lower net charges during 2009 related to
reengineering initiatives. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses increased $309 million or 17 percent to $2.1 billion in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to higher salaries and employee benefits expense and increased other
operating expenses, which reflected the costs related to the Company s reengineering initiatives in 2008, as well as greater professional services expense.      Income Taxes      The effective tax rate was negative 32 percent in 2009 versus
negative 129 percent in 2008 and negative 149 percent in 2007. ICS includes a tax benefit of $73 million and $198 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, since the Company s internal tax allocation process provides this segment with the
consolidated benefit related to its ongoing funding activities outside the United States. The tax benefit is likely to continue, because Congress is expected to extend the law that provides the basis for the benefit.         
    56    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES      SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA           
          SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION   (a)              

(a)  
  See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information.     

(b)  
  Segment capital at the end of each respective period represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and
regulatory capital requirements.     

(d)  
  A cardmember account is considered 90 days past billing if payment has not been received within 90 days of the cardmember s billing statement date. In addition, if
the Company initiates collection procedures on an account prior to the account becoming 90 days past billing, the associated cardmember receivable balance is considered as 90 days past billing. A cardmember account becomes past due if payment is not
received within 30 days after the billing statement date.           
    57    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009      GCS reported segment income of $390 million for 2009, a $115 million or 23 percent decrease from $505 million in 2008, which decreased $31 million or 6
percent from 2007.      Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense      In 2009, GCS  total revenues net of interest expense decreased $650 million or 14 percent to $4.0 billion due to decreased discount
revenue, net card fees, and other revenues and lower interest income, partially offset by lower interest expense. Discount revenue, net card fees, and other revenues decreased $924 million or 18 percent to $4.2 billion in 2009 primarily driven by
lower travel commissions and fees, the reduced level of card spending, decreased other revenues and reduced other commissions and fees. The 14 percent decrease in billed business in 2009 reflected a 16 percent decrease in average spending per
proprietary basic card. Assuming no changes in foreign currency exchange rates from 2008 to 2009, billed business and average spending per proprietary basic card decreased 11 percent and 13 percent, respectively, in 2009 with volume decreases within
the United States of 11 percent compared to results within the Company s other major geographic regions ranging from the mid-teen-digit declines in Europe and Asia Pacific, a low-teen-digit decrease in Canada, and a mid-single-digit increase in
Latin America   4   . Interest income decreased $107 million or
64 percent to $61 million in 2009 compared to 2008, driven by lower rates within deposit-related income. Interest expense decreased $381 million or 69 percent to $172 million in 2009 compared to 2008 due to a lower cost of funds and average
receivable balance, partially offset by the cost of funding the CPS acquisition. Total revenues net of interest expense of $4.7 billion in 2008 were $427 million or 10 percent higher than 2007 due to increased discount revenue, net card fees, and
other revenue and lower interest expense.      Provisions for Losses      Provisions for losses decreased $54 million or 23 percent to $177 million in 2009 compared to 2008, reflecting improved credit trends as 2009 progressed. Provisions for losses increased $68 million or 42
percent to $231 million in 2008 compared to 2007, reflecting higher loss and past due rates due to the challenging economic environment.       

4   
  Refer to footnote 2 on page 34 under Consolidated Results of Operations for the Three Years Ended December 31, 2009 relating to changes in foreign exchange rates.
             Expenses      During 2009 GCS  expenses decreased $471 million or 12 percent to $3.3 billion, reflecting a reduction of $426 million in salaries and employee benefits
and other operating expenses as described below, as well as lower rewards costs, lower net charges associated with reengineering initiatives in 2009, and the Delta-related increase in the Membership Rewards balance sheet reserve in the fourth
quarter of 2008. Expenses in 2009, 2008 and 2007, included $101 million, $138 million, and $25 million, respectively, of reengineering costs, primarily reflecting the Company s reengineering initiatives in 2009 and 2008 as previously discussed
and reengineering costs, primarily in business travel in 2007. Expenses in 2008 of $3.8 billion were $410 million or 12 percent higher than 2007, primarily due to greater salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses.      Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses decreased $45 million or 12 percent to $332 million in 2009 compared to 2008,
primarily reflecting lower rewards costs in 2009 and the Delta-related increase in the Membership Rewards balance sheet reserve in the fourth quarter of 2008. Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses decreased $10 million or 3
percent to $377 million in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to the Membership Rewards related charge in 2007, offset by higher volume-related rewards costs and the Delta-related charge in 2008 to increase the Membership Rewards liability.
Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses decreased $426 million or 13 percent to $3.0 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, reflecting the benefits from the Company s reengineering initiatives, partially offset by lower net
charges associated with these programs during 2009. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses increased $420 million or 14 percent to $3.4 billion in 2008 compared to 2007, due to higher other operating expenses and greater
salaries and employee benefits expense, which reflected the impacts of the CPS acquisition, as well as the costs related to the Company s reengineering initiatives in 2008 and the pension-related gain in 2007.      Income Taxes      The effective tax
rate was 31 percent in 2009 versus 27 percent in 2008 and 28 percent in 2007.         
    58    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   GLOBAL NETWORK   MERCHANT SERVICES      SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA           
    SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION   (      a)              

(a)  
  See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information.     

(b)  
  Global Card billed business includes activities (including cash advances) related to proprietary cards, cards issued under network partnership agreements, and certain
insurance fees charged on proprietary cards.     

(c)  
  Segment capital at the end of each respective period represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and
regulatory capital requirements.     
    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR
THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009      GNMS reported segment income of $898 million in 2009, a $97 million or 10 percent decrease from $995
million in 2008, which decreased $27 million or 3 percent from 2007.      Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense      GNMS  total revenues net of interest expense decreased $386 million or 9 percent to $3.7 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, due to decreased discount
revenue, net card fees and other and decreased interest expense credit. Discount revenue, fees and other revenues decreased $250 million or 6 percent to $3.6 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, reflecting a decline in merchant-related revenues, due to
the 9 percent decrease in global card billed business, partially offset by higher GNS-related revenues. Interest expense credit decreased $137 million or 62 percent to $85 million in 2009 compared to 2008, due to a lower rate-driven interest credit
related to internal transfer pricing, which recognizes the merchant services  accounts payable-related funding benefit. Total revenues net of interest expense of $4.1 billion in 2008 were $238 million or 6 percent higher compared to 2007 due to
increased discount revenue, fees and other revenues offset by lower interest expense credit.      Provisions for Losses
     Provisions for losses increased $8 million or 6 percent to $135 million in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily driven by the higher provisions in
GNS. Provisions for losses in 2008 increased $24 million or 23 percent to $127 million compared to 2007, primarily reflecting merchant-related provisions.      Expenses      During 2009, GNMS  expenses decreased $285 million or 11 percent to
$2.2 billion compared to 2008. Expenses in 2009, 2008 and 2007, included $22 million, $31 million and $6 million of reengineering costs, respectively, primarily related
        
    59    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
to the Company s reengineering initiatives in 2009 and 2008 as previously discussed. Expenses in 2008 of $2.5 billion were $284 million or 13 percent higher than 2007, due to increased
salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses, partially offset by a decrease in marketing and promotion expenses.      Marketing and promotion expenses decreased $32 million or 6 percent to $521 million in 2009 compared to 2008, reflecting lower brand and merchant-related marketing costs during the first nine months of 2009. Marketing and promotion expenses
decreased 7 percent in 2008 to $553 million compared to 2007, reflecting lower brand and other marketing and promotion expenses as compared to incremental business-building costs in 2007.      Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses decreased $253 million or 13 percent to $1.7 billion in 2009 compared to 2008,
primarily reflecting the benefits from the Company s reengineering initiatives. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses increased $326 million or 20 percent to $1.9 billion in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to
increased merchant-related reserve due to the challenging economic environment, 2007 gains related to the sale of the Company s merchant-related operations in Russia, greater salaries and employee benefits expense, which reflected the expansion
of the merchant sales force and the costs related to the Company s reengineering initiatives in 2008 and higher volume-related expenses.      Income Taxes      The effective tax rate was 35 percent in 2009, 33 percent in 2008 and 34 percent in 2007.      CORPORATE   OTHER      Corporate   Other had net income of $297 million, $168 million and $454 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net income in 2009 reflected the $372 million and $172 million after-tax income related to the MasterCard and
Visa litigation settlements, respectively, and $135 million of after-tax income related to the ICBC sale.      In the third quarter
of 2009, the Company recorded a $180 million ($113 million after-tax) benefit associated with the Company s accounting for a net investment in consolidated foreign subsidiaries. $135 million ($85 million after-tax) of this benefit represents
the correction of an error related to the accounting for cumulative translation adjustments in prior periods. The error resulted in a $60 million ($38 million after-tax) income overstatement in the second quarter of 2009, a $135 million ($85 million
after-tax) income understatement in the fourth quarter of 2008 and minimal amounts for all other periods affected dating back to the third quarter of 2007, when the incorrect accounting originated. Also included in the $180 million is a
non-recurring $45 million ($28 million after-tax) related benefit which was recorded in the third quarter of 2009 as a result of changes in the fair value of certain foreign exchange forward contracts that are economic hedges to foreign currency
exposures of net investments in consolidated foreign subsidiaries. Reengineering costs of $35 million after-tax, $108 million after-tax and $4 million after-tax, for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, primarily related to the Company s
reengineering initiatives previously discussed.      Net income in 2008 reflected the $186 million and $172 million after-tax
income related to the MasterCard and Visa litigation settlements, respectively, offset by a $19 million after-tax charge primarily relating to the ongoing AEB operations retained by the Company in the first quarter of 2008.      Net income in 2007 reflected the $700 million after-tax gain resulting from the initial $1.13 billion due March 31, 2008, from Visa as
part of the litigation settlement. This was partially offset by a $46 million after-tax litigation related charge, and a $31 million after-tax charge for the contribution to the American Express Charitable Fund.      EXPOSURE TO AIRLINE INDUSTRY      The
Company has multiple co-brand relationships and rewards partners, of which airlines are one of the most important and valuable. The Company s largest airline co-brand is Delta Air Lines (Delta) and this relationship includes exclusive co-brand
credit card partnerships and other arrangements, including Membership Rewards, merchant acceptance and travel. American Express  Delta SkyMiles Credit Card co-brand portfolio accounts for approximately 5 percent of the Company s worldwide
billed business and less than 15 percent of worldwide cardmember lending receivables. Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of prepaid miles acquired from Delta.      Over the last couple of years, there were a significant number of airline bankruptcies and liquidations, driven in part by volatile fuel
costs and weakening economies around the world. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant revenue declines when a particular airline scales back or ceases operations due to a bankruptcy or other financial challenges because volumes
generated by that airline are typically shifted to other participants in the industry that accept the Company s card products. The Company s exposure to business and credit risk in the airline industry is primarily through business
arrangements where the Company has remitted payment to the airline for a cardmember purchase of tickets that have not yet been used or  flown . The Company mitigates this risk by delaying payment to the airlines with deteriorating
financial situations, thereby increasing cash withheld to protect the Company in the event the airline is liquidated. To date, the Company has not experienced significant losses from airlines that have ceased operations.         
    60    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   OTHER REPORTING MATTERS      ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS      See the Recently Issued Accounting Standards section of
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      GLOSSARY OF SELECTED TERMINOLOGY       Adjusted average loans    Represents average cardmember loans on an owned or managed basis, as applicable, excluding the impact of deferred card
fees, net of deferred direct acquisition costs of cardmember loans on an owned or managed basis, as applicable.       Adjusted
net interest income    Represents net interest income allocated to the Company s cardmember loans portfolio on an owned or managed basis, as applicable, which excludes the impact of card fees on loans and balance transfer fees
attributable to the Company s cardmember loans portfolio on an owned or managed basis, as applicable.       Asset
securitizations    Asset securitization involves the transfer and sale of receivables or loans to a special purpose entity created for the securitization activity, typically a trust. The trust, in turn, issues securities, commonly referred
to as asset-backed securities that are secured by the transferred receivables or loans. The trust uses the proceeds from the sale of such securities to pay the purchase price for the underlying receivables or loans.       Average discount rate    This calculation is designed to approximate merchant pricing. It represents the percentage of billed
business (both proprietary and GNS) retained by the Company from merchants it acquires, prior to payments to third parties unrelated to merchant acceptance.       Basic cards-in-force    Proprietary basic consumer cards-in-force includes basic cards issued to the primary account owner and does not include additional supplemental cards issued on that
account. Proprietary basic small business and corporate cards-in-force include basic and supplemental cards issued to employee cardmembers. Non-proprietary basic cards-in-force includes all cards that are issued and outstanding under network
partnership agreements.       Billed business    Represents the dollar amount of charges on all American Express cards;
also referred to as spend or charge volume. Proprietary billed business includes charges made on the Company s proprietary cards-in-force, cash advances on proprietary cards and certain insurance fees charged on proprietary cards.
Non-proprietary billed business represents the charges through the Company s global network on cards issued by the Company s network partners. Billed business is reflected in the United States or outside the United States based on where
the cardmember is domiciled.       Capital asset pricing model    Generates an appropriate discount rate using internal
and external inputs to value future cash flows based on the time value of money and the price for bearing uncertainty inherent in an investment.       Capital ratios    Represents the minimum standards established by the regulatory agencies as a measure to determine whether the regulated entity has sufficient capital to absorb on and
off-balance sheet losses beyond current loss accrual estimates.       Card acquisition    Primarily represents the
issuance of new cards to either new or existing cardmembers through marketing and promotion efforts.       Cardmember   
The individual holder of an issued American Express branded charge or credit card.       Cardmember loans    Represents
the outstanding amount due from cardmembers for charges made on their American Express credit cards, as well as any interest charges and card-related fees. Cardmember loans also include balances with extended payment terms on certain charge card
products and are net of unearned revenue.       Cardmember receivables    Represents the outstanding amount due from
cardmembers for charges made on their American Express charge cards as well as any card-related fees.       Charge cards 
  Represents cards that carry no pre-set spending limits and are primarily designed as a method of payment and not as a means of financing purchases. Cardmembers generally must pay the full amount billed each month. No finance charges are
assessed on charge cards.       Credit cards    Represents cards that have a range of revolving payment terms, grace
periods, and rate and fee structures.       Discount revenue    Represents revenue earned from fees charged to merchants
with whom the Company has entered into a card acceptance agreement for processing cardmember transactions. The discount fee generally is deducted from the Company s payment reimbursing the merchant for cardmember purchases. Such amounts are
reduced by contra- revenue such as payments to third-party card issuing partners, cash-back reward costs and corporate incentive payments.       Interest expense    Interest expense includes interest incurred primarily to fund cardmember loans, charge card product receivables, general corporate purposes, and liquidity needs, and is
recognized as incurred. Interest expense is divided principally into three categories (i) deposits, which primarily relates to interest expense on deposits taken from customers and institutions, (ii) short-term borrowings, which primarily
relates to interest expense on commercial paper, federal funds purchased, bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings, and (iii) long-term debt, which primarily relates to interest expense on the Company s long-term debt.   
   Interest income    Interest and fees on loans includes interest on loans which is assessed using the average daily balance
method for loans owned. These amounts are recognized based upon the principal amount outstanding in accordance with the terms of the applicable account agreement until the outstanding balance is paid or written-off. Loan fees are deferred and
recognized in interest income
        
    61    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
on a straight-line basis over the 12-month card membership period, net of deferred direct card acquisition costs and a reserve for projected membership cancellation.      Interest and dividends on investment securities primarily relates to the Company s performing fixed-income securities. Interest income
is accrued as earned using the effective interest method, which adjusts the yield for security premiums and discounts, fees and other payments, so that the related investment security recognizes a constant rate of return on the outstanding balance
throughout its term. These amounts are recognized until these securities are in default or when it is likely that future interest payments will not be made as scheduled.      Interest income on deposits with banks and other is recognized as earned, and primarily relates to the placement of cash in excess of near-term funding requirements in interest-bearing time deposits,
overnight sweep accounts, and other interest bearing demand and call accounts.       Interest-only strip    Interest-only
strips are generated from USCS  securitization activity and are a form of retained interest held by the Company in the securitization. This financial instrument represents the present value of estimated future positive  excess spread 
expected to be generated by the securitized assets over the estimated life of those assets. Excess spread is the net cash flow from interest and fee collections allocated to the third-party investors  interests in the securitization after
deducting the interest paid on the investor certificates, credit losses, contractual servicing fees, and other expenses.       Merchant acquisition    Represents the signing of merchants to accept American Express-branded cards.       Net card fees    Represents the charge card membership fees earned during the period. These fees are recognized as revenue over the covered card membership period (typically one year), net of provision for projected refunds for
cancellation of card membership.       Net interest yield on cardmember loans    Represents the net spread earned on
cardmember loans. Net interest yield on cardmember loans (both on an owned and managed basis) is computed by dividing adjusted net interest income by adjusted average loans, computed on an annualized basis. The calculation of net interest yield on
cardmember loans (both on an owned and managed basis) includes interest that is deemed uncollectible. For the owned and managed basis presentation, reserves and net write-offs related to uncollectible interest are recorded through provisions for
losses   cardmember loans; therefore, such reserves and net write-offs are not included in the net interest yield calculation.       Net loss ratio    Represents the ratio of charge card write-offs consisting of principal (resulting from authorized and unauthorized transactions) and fee components, less recoveries, on cardmember receivables expressed as a
percentage of gross amounts billed to cardmembers.       Net write-off rate    Represents the amount of cardmember loans
or USCS cardmember receivables written off consisting of principal (resulting from authorized transactions), less recoveries, as a percentage of the average loan balance or USCS average receivables during the period.       Return on average equity    Calculated by dividing one year period net income by one year average total shareholders  equity.
      Return on average tangible common equity    Computed in the same manner as ROE except the computation of average
tangible common shareholders  equity excludes average goodwill and other intangibles.       Return on average segment
capital    Calculated by dividing one year period segment income by one year average segment capital.       Return on
average tangible segment capital    Computed in the same manner as return on average segment capital except the computation of average tangible segment capital excludes average goodwill and other intangibles.       Risk-weighted assets    Assets are weighted for risk according to a formula used by the Federal Reserve to conform to capital
adequacy guidelines. On and off-balance sheet items are weighted for risk, with off-balance sheet items converted to balance sheet equivalents, using risk conversion factors, before being allocated a risk-adjusted weight.       Securitization income, net    Includes non-credit provision components of the net gains or losses from securitization activities;
changes in fair value of the interest-only strip; excess spread related to securitized cardmember loans; and servicing income, net of related discounts or fees. Excess spread, which is recognized as earned, is the net cash flow from interest and fee
collections allocated to the third-party investors  interests in the securitization after deducting the interest paid on the investor certificates, credit losses, contractual servicing fees and other expenses.       Stored value and prepaid products    Includes Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products such as gift cheques and cards as well
as reloadable Travelers Cheque cards. These products are sold as safe and convenient alternatives to currency for purchasing goods and services.       Tier 1 capital ratio    Tier 1 capital ratio is calculated as Tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital is the sum of common shareholders  equity, certain perpetual
preferred stock, and minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries, adjusted for certain other comprehensive income items, ineligible goodwill and intangible assets. This ratio is commonly used by regulatory agencies to assess a financial
institution s financial strength and is the primary form of capital used to absorb losses beyond current loss accrual estimates.       Tier 1 leverage ratio    Tier 1 leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital (as defined above) by the Company s average total consolidated assets for the most recent quarter.         
    62    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
  Total cards-in-force    Represents the number of cards that are issued and outstanding. Total consumer cards-in-force includes basic
cards issued to the primary account owner and any supplemental cards, which represent additional cards issued on that account. Total small business and corporate cards-in-force include basic cards issued to employee cardmembers. Proprietary
cards-in-force represent card products where the Company owns the cardmember relationship, including card issuance, billing and credit management and strategic plans such as marketing, promotion, and development of card products and offerings.
Proprietary cards-in-force include co-brand and affinity cards. For non-proprietary cards-in-force (except for certain independent operator network partnership agreements), the Company maintains the responsibility to acquire and service merchants
that accept the Company s cards and the cardmember relationship is owned by the Company s network partners that issue the cards (who also provide the Company data on the number of cards they issue).       Total risk-based capital ratio    Total risk-based capital ratio is calculated as the sum of Tier 1 capital (as defined above) and
Tier 2 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. The Company calculates Tier 2 capital as the sum of the allowance for receivable and loan losses (limited to 1.25 percent of risk-weighted assets) and 45 percent of the unrealized gains on equity
securities.       Travel sales    Represents the total dollar amount of travel transaction volume for airline, hotel, car
rental, and other travel arrangements made for consumers and corporate clients. The Company earns revenue on these transactions by charging a transaction or management fee.      FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS      This report includes forward-looking statements within
the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements, which address the Company s expected business and financial performance, among other matters,
contain words such as  believe ,  expect ,  anticipate ,  optimistic ,  intend ,  plan ,  aim ,  will ,  may ,  should ,  could ,
 would ,  likely , and similar expressions. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to
update or revise any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: the Company s ability to exceed for 2010 its
on-average, over-time earnings per share growth target of 12 percent to 15 percent per annum, which will depend on, among other things, the factors described below, including the level of consumer and business spending, credit trends, expense
management, currency and interest rate fluctuations and general economic conditions, such as unemployment and GDP growth; the Company s ability to manage credit risk related to consumer debt, business loans, merchants and other credit trends,
which will depend in part on (i) the economic environment, including, among other things, the housing market, the rates of bankruptcies and unemployment, which can affect spending on card products, debt payments by individual and corporate
customers and businesses that accept the Company s card products, (ii) the effectiveness of the Company s credit models and (iii) the impact of recently enacted statutes and proposed legislative initiatives affecting the credit
card business, including, without limitation, The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the  CARD Act  the impact of the Company s efforts to deal with delinquent cardmembers in the current
challenging economic environment, which may affect payment patterns of cardmembers and the perception of the Company s services, products and brands; the Company s near-term write-off rates, including those for the first and second
quarters of 2010, which will depend in part on changes in the level of the Company s loan balances, delinquency rates of cardmembers, unemployment rates, the volume of bankruptcies and recoveries of previously written-off loans; consumer and
business spending on the Company s credit and charge card products and Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products and growth in card lending balances, which depend in part on the economic environment, and the ability to issue new and enhanced
card and prepaid products, services and rewards programs, and increase revenues from such products, attract new cardmembers, reduce cardmember attrition, capture a greater share of existing cardmembers  spending, and sustain premium discount
rates on its card products in light of regulatory and market pressures, increase merchant coverage, retain cardmembers after low introductory lending rates have expired, and expand the Global Network Services business; the write-off and delinquency
rates in the medium- to long-term of cardmembers added by the Company during the past few years, which could impact their profitability to the Company; the Company s ability to effectively implement changes in the pricing of certain of its
products and services; fluctuations in interest rates (including fluctuations in benchmarks, such as LIBOR and other benchmark rates that may give rise to basis risk, and credit spreads), which impact the Company s borrowing costs, return on
lending products and the value of the Company s investments; the Company s net interest yield on cardmember loans trending downward over time closer to historical levels, which will be impacted by the affects of the CARD Act and changes in
consumer behavior that affect loan balances; the actual amount to be spent by the Company on marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services based on management s assessment of competitive opportunities and other factors affecting its
judgment and during 2010, the extent of provision benefit, if any, from
        
    63    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
lower than expected write-offs; the ability to control and manage operating, infrastructure, advertising and promotion expenses as business expands or changes, including the ability to accurately
estimate the provision for the cost of the Membership Rewards program; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the Company s ability to grow its business and generate excess capital and earnings in a manner and at levels that will
allow the Company to return a portion of capital to shareholders, which will depend on the Company s ability to manage its capital needs, and the effect of business mix, acquisitions and rating agency and regulatory requirements, including
those arising from the Company s status as a bank holding company; the ability of the Company to meet its objectives with respect to the growth of its brokered retail CD program, brokerage sweep account program and the direct deposit
initiative, which will depend in part on customer demand, the perception of the Company s brand and regulatory capital requirements; the success of the Global Network Services business in partnering with banks in the United States, which will
depend in part on the extent to which such business further enhances the Company s brand; allows the Company to leverage its significant processing scale, expands merchant coverage of the network, provides Global Network Services  bank
partners in the United States the benefits of greater cardmember loyalty and higher spend per customer, and merchant benefits such as greater transaction volume and additional higher spending customers; the ability of the Global Network Services
business to meet the performance requirements called for by the Company s settlements with MasterCard and Visa; trends in travel and entertainment spending and the overall level of consumer confidence; the uncertainties associated with business
acquisitions, including, among others, the failure to realize anticipated business retention, growth and cost savings, as well as the ability to effectively integrate the acquired business into the Company s existing operations; the success,
timeliness and financial impact (including costs, cost savings, and other benefits, including increased revenues), and beneficial effect on the Company s operating expense to revenue ratio, both in the short-term and over time, of reengineering
initiatives being implemented or considered by the Company, including cost management, structural and strategic measures such as vendor, process, facilities and operations consolidation, outsourcing (including, among others, technologies
operations), relocating certain functions to lower-cost overseas locations, moving internal and external functions to the internet to save costs, and planned staff reductions relating to certain of such reengineering actions, including, the ability
of the Company to generate an annualized level of greater than $500 million of gross expense savings by 2012 from reengineering actions in its Global Services unit; the Company s ability to reinvest the benefits arising from such reengineering
actions in its businesses; bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations or similar events affecting the airline or any other industry representing a significant portion of the Company s billed business, including any potential negative effect
on particular card products and services and billed business generally that could result from the actual or perceived weakness of key business partners in such industries; the triggering of obligations to make payments to certain co-brand partners,
merchants, vendors and customers under contractual arrangements with such parties under certain circumstances; a downturn in the Company s businesses and/or negative changes in the Company s and its subsidiaries  credit ratings, which
could result in contingent payments under contracts, decreased liquidity and higher borrowing costs; the ability of the Company to satisfy its liquidity needs and execute on its funding plans, which will depend on, among other things, the
Company s future business growth, its credit ratings, market capacity and demand for securities offered by the Company, performance by the Company s counterparties under its bank credit facilities and other lending facilities, regulatory
changes, including changes to the policies, rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, the Company s ability to securitize and sell receivables and the
performance of receivables previously sold in securitization transactions; accuracy of estimates for the fair value of the assets in the Company s investment portfolio and, in particular, those investments that are not readily marketable; the
ability of the Company s charge card and lending trusts to maintain excess spreads at levels sufficient to avoid material set-asides or early amortization of the Company s charge card and lending securitizations, which will depend on
various factors such as income derived from the relevant portfolios and their respective credit performances; the increase in excess spread resulting from the designation of discount option receivables with respect to the American Express Credit
Account Master Trust, which will depend in part on the monthly principal payment rate posted to accounts in, and the credit performance of, the securitized lending portfolio; the Company s ability to invest in technology advances across all
areas of its business to stay on the leading edge of technologies applicable to the payments industry; the Company s ability to attract and retain executive management and other key employees; the Company s ability to protect its
intellectual property rights (IP) and avoid infringing the IP of other parties; the potential negative effect on the Company s businesses and infrastructure, including information technology, of terrorist attacks, natural disasters, intrusion
into our infrastructure by  hackers  or other catastrophic events in the future; political or economic instability in certain regions or countries, which could affect lending and other commercial activities, among other businesses, or
restrictions on convertibility of certain currencies; changes in laws or government regulations; the administration s proposal to impose a Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee at the rate of
        
    64    

Table of Contents  

2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
approximately 15 basis points on certain liabilities of banks, bank holding companies and other financial institutions with consolidated assets of at least $50 billion; the potential failure of
the U.S. Congress to extend the active financing exception to Subpart F of the Internal Revenue Code, which could increase the Company s effective tax rate and have an adverse impact on net income; the potential impact of the CARD Act and
regulations adopted by federal bank regulators relating to certain credit and charge card practices, including, among others, the imposition by card issuers of interest rate increases on outstanding balances and the allocation of payments in respect
of outstanding balances with different interest rates, which could have an adverse impact on the Company s net income; accounting changes, including the implementation of changes to the accounting for off-balance sheet activities or other
potential regulatory interpretations in this area, which, effective January 1, 2010, requires the Company to consolidate the assets and liabilities of the lending securitization trust, thereby requiring the Company to reestablish loss reserves,
which has in turn resulted in a reduction to the Company s regulatory capital ratios and will also result in a change with respect to the presentation of its financial statements beginning in the first quarter of 2010, and which also could
result in lower credit ratings on securities issued by the Company s off-balance sheet securitization trusts as a result of the uncertainty with respect to the ability of rating agencies to continue to rely on the FDIC s safe harbor rule
regarding the isolation of securitized assets in the event of a sponsoring bank s receivership or conservatorship, which in turn could adversely impact the Company s ability to utilize securitizations as a component of its funding
strategy; outcomes and costs associated with litigation and compliance and regulatory matters; and competitive pressures in all of the Company s major businesses. A further description of these and other risks and uncertainties can be found in
the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and the Company s other reports filed with the SEC.         
    65    

Table of Contents  

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER
FINANCIAL REPORTING       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       
  
    MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON        INTERNAL CONTROL OVER        FINANCIAL REPORTING           The management of the Company
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.      The Company s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP in the United
States of America, and includes those policies and procedures that:       

Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of
the Company;          

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and
that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and          

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that
could have a material effect on the financial statements.               Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      The Company s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. In making this assessment, the Company s
management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework.        Based on management s assessment and those criteria, we conclude that, as of December 31, 2009, the Company s internal control
over financial reporting is effective.      PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Company s independent registered public accounting
firm, has issued an attestation report appearing on the following page on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009.         
    66    

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  
     AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY           
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT        REGISTERED PUBLIC        ACCOUNTING FIRM       THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS OF AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY:      In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and shareholders  equity present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of American Express Company and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based
on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements,
for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as
we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      

New York, New York      February 25, 2010         
    67    

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
  AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         

68    

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         

(a)  
  Represents income from continuing operations or net income, as applicable, less (i) accelerated preferred dividend accretion of $212 million for the year ended
December 31, 2009 due to the repurchase of $3.39 billion of preferred shares issued as part of the Capital Purchase Program (CPP), (ii) preferred share dividends and related accretion of $94 million for the year ended December 31,
2009, and (iii) earnings allocated to participating share awards and other items of $22 million, $15 million and $26 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.        See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
    69    

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
    
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
    70    

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
    
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
    71    

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         

    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
    72    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
  AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       NOTE 1      SUMMARY OF
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES      THE COMPANY      American Express is a global service company that provides customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. The Company s principal products
and services are charge and credit payment card products and travel-related services offered to consumers and businesses around the world. The Company s various products and services are sold globally to diverse customer groups, including
consumers, small businesses, middle-market companies, and large corporations. These products and services are sold through various channels, including direct mail, on-line applications, targeted direct and third-party sales forces and direct
response advertising.      PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION      The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). All significant intercompany transactions are eliminated. The
Company has performed an evaluation of subsequent events through February 25, 2010, which is the date the financial statements were issued.      The Company consolidates all voting interest entities in which the Company holds a controlling financial interest through which the Company is able to exercise control over those entities  operating
and financial decisions. Entities in which the Company s voting interest does not provide the Company with control, but allows the Company to exert significant influence over their financial and operating decisions are accounted for under the
equity method. All other investments in equity securities, to the extent that they are not considered marketable securities, are accounted for under the cost method.      Investments with variable interest entities (VIEs) are limited. The Company consolidates any VIEs for which it is considered to be the primary beneficiary. The determination of whether an entity is a VIE
is based on the amount and characteristics of the entity s equity. An enterprise is required to consolidate a VIE when it has a variable interest for which it is deemed to be the primary beneficiary, that is, it will absorb a majority of the
VIE s expected losses or receive a majority of the VIE s expected residual returns.      Certain reclassifications of
prior period amounts have been made to conform to the current presentation. These reclassifications did not have an impact on the Company s results of operations.       
     FOREIGN CURRENCY      Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars based upon exchange rates prevailing at the end of each year. The resulting translation adjustments, along with any related qualifying hedge and tax
effects, are included in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, a component of shareholders  equity. Translation adjustments, including qualifying hedge and tax effects, are reclassified to earnings upon the sale or substantial
liquidation of investments in foreign operations. Revenues and expenses are translated at the average month-end exchange rates during the year. Gains and losses related to transactions in a currency other than the functional currency, including
operations outside the U.S. where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, are reported net, in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income, in other non-interest revenue, interest income, interest expense, or other, net expense,
depending on the nature of the activity. Net foreign currency transaction gains amounted to approximately $205 million, $15 million and $27 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Refer to Note 19 for further discussion of certain items
that impacted these gains in 2009.      AMOUNTS BASED ON ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS      Accounting estimates are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements. These estimates are based, in part, on management s assumptions
concerning future events. Among the more significant assumptions are those that relate to reserves for cardmember losses relating to loans and charge card receivables, reserves for Membership Rewards cost, fair value measurements, goodwill and
income taxes. These accounting estimates reflect the best judgment of management, but actual results could differ.      TOTAL
REVENUES NET OF INTEREST EXPENSE      Discount Revenue      Discount revenue represents fees charged to merchants with which the Company, or its franchise partners, has entered into card acceptance agreements for facilitating transactions between the merchants and
the Company s cardmembers. The discount generally is deducted from the payment to the merchant and recorded as discount revenue at the time the charge is captured.      Net Card Fees      Card fees are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over
the 12-month card membership period, net of deferred direct card acquisition costs and a reserve for projected membership cancellations. Charge card fees are recognized in net card fees in the Consolidated Statements of Income and the unamortized
net card fee balance is reported in other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets (refer to Note 11). Loan product fees are considered an enhancement to the
        
    73    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
yield on the product, and are recognized in interest and fees on loans in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The unamortized net card fee balance for lending products is reported net in
cardmember loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets (refer to Note 5).      Travel Commissions and Fees      The Company earns travel commissions and fees by charging clients transaction or management fees for selling and arranging travel and travel management
services. Client transaction fee revenue is recognized at the time the client books the travel arrangements. Travel management services revenue is recognized over the contractual term of the agreement. The Company s travel suppliers (for
example, airlines, hotels, car rental companies) pay commissions and fees on tickets issued, sales and other services based on contractual agreements. Commissions and fees from travel suppliers are generally recognized at the time a ticket is
purchased or over the term of the contract. Commissions and fees that are based on actual usage that is unknown at time of purchase (for example, hotel and car rentals) are recognized when cash is received.      Other Commissions and Fees      Other
commissions and fees include foreign currency conversion fees, delinquency fees, service fees and other card related assessments, which are recognized primarily in the period in which they are charged to the cardmember. Also included are fees
related to the Company s Membership Rewards program, which are deferred and recognized over the period covered by the fee. The unamortized Membership Rewards fee balance is included in other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets (refer
to Note 11).      Contra-revenue      The Company regularly makes payments through contractual arrangements with merchants, Commercial Card clients and certain other customers, collectively the  customers . Payments to customers are generally classified as
contra-revenue unless a specifically identifiable benefit (e.g. goods or services) is received by the Company in consideration for that payment and the fair value of such benefit is determinable and measurable. If no such benefit is identified, then
the entire payment is classified as contra-revenue, and included within total non-interest revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Income in the line item where the related transaction revenues are recorded (e.g. discount revenue, travel
commissions and fees, and other commissions and fees). If such a benefit is identified, then the payment is classified as expense up to the estimated fair value of the benefit.      Interest Income      Interest on loans owned is assessed using the average daily
balance method. Interest is recognized based upon the loan principal amount outstanding in accordance with the terms of the applicable account agreement until the outstanding balance is paid or written-off.      Interest and dividends on investment securities primarily relates to the Company s performing fixed-income securities. Interest income
is accrued as earned using the effective interest method, which adjusts the yield for security premiums and discounts, fees and other payments, so that a constant rate of return is recognized on the investment security s outstanding balance.
Amounts are recognized until such time as a security is in default or when it is likely that future interest payments will not be made as scheduled.      Interest on deposits with banks and other is recognized as earned, and primarily relates to the placement of cash in excess of near-term funding requirements in interest-bearing time deposits, overnight
sweep accounts, and other interest bearing demand and call accounts.      Interest Expense      Interest expense includes interest incurred primarily to fund cardmember loans, charge card product receivables, general corporate purposes, and liquidity
needs, and is recognized as incurred. Interest expense is divided principally into three categories (i) deposits, which primarily relates to interest expense on deposits taken from customers and institutions, (ii) short-term borrowings,
which primarily relates to interest expense on commercial paper, federal funds purchased, bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings, and (iii) long-term debt, which primarily relates to interest expense on the Company s long-term
financing.      BALANCE SHEET      Cash and Cash Equivalents      Cash and cash equivalents include cash and amounts due from banks, interest-bearing bank
balances, including securities purchased under resale agreements and other highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less.      Premises and Equipment      Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are carried at cost less accumulated
depreciation. Costs incurred during construction are capitalized and are depreciated once an asset is placed in service. Depreciation is generally computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of assets, which range from 3
to 8 years for equipment. Premises are depreciated based upon their estimated useful life at the acquisition date, which generally ranges from 40 to 60 years.      Leasehold improvements are depreciated using the straight-line method over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the economic life of the improvement, which ranges from 5 to 10 years.
The Company maintains operating leases worldwide for facilities and equipment. Rent
        
    74    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
expense for facility leases is recognized ratably over the lease term, and is calculated to include adjustments for rent concessions, rent escalations and leasehold improvement allowances. The
Company accounts for lease restoration obligations in accordance with applicable GAAP, which requires recognition of the fair value of restoration liabilities when incurred, and amortization of capitalized restoration costs over the lease term.
            Software development costs       The Company capitalizes certain costs associated with the acquisition or development of internal-use software. Once the software is ready for its intended
use, these costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the software s estimated useful life, generally 5 years.          SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES      The following table identifies the Company s other significant accounting policies, the Note and page where a detailed description of each policy can be found.           

Significant Accounting Policy    
      
     Note Number    
      
     Note Title    
      
   Page    
 
    Fair Value Measurements   
      
  Note 3  
      
  Fair Values of Financial Instruments  
      
  Page 77   
 
    Accounts Receivable   
      
  Note 4  
      
  Accounts Receivable  
      
  Page 80   
 
    Loans   
      
  Note 5  
      
  Loans  
      
  Page 82   
 
    Investment Securities   
      
  Note 6  
      
  Investment Securities  
      
  Page 84   
 
    Securitization Income, Net; and Asset Securitization   
      
  Note 7  
      
  Asset Securitizations  
      
  Page 87   
 
    Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets   
      
  Note 8  
      
  Other Assets  
      
  Page 91   
 
    Membership Rewards   
      
  Note 11  
      
  Other Liabilities  
      
  Page 97   
 
    Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities   
      
  Note 12  
      
  Derivative and Hedging Activities  
      
  Page 98   
 
    Income Taxes   
      
  Note 17  
      
  Income Taxes  
      
  Page 108   
 
    Other Non-Interest Revenues   
      
  Note 19  
      
  Details of Certain Consolidated Statements of Income  
      
  Page 110   
 
    Other, Net Expense   
      
  Note 19  
      
  Details of Certain Consolidated Statements of Income  
      
  Page 110   
 
    Stock-based Compensation   
      
  Note 20  
      
  Stock Plans  
      
  Page 111   
 
    Bank Holding Company   
      
  Note 23  
      
  Regulatory Matters and Capital Adequacy  
      
  Page 119   
 
    Reportable Operating Segments   
      
  Note 25  
      
  Reportable Operating Segments and Geographic Operations  
      
  Page 122          
    75    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS      The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) recently issued the following accounting standards, which are effective beginning January 1, 2010.

Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2009-16, Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860): Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets: An amendment for
accounting for transfers of financial assets will eliminate the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE), therefore requiring these entities to be evaluated under the accounting guidance for consolidation of VIEs. Other changes include
additional considerations when determining if sale accounting is appropriate, as well as enhanced disclosure requirements. The new standard is to be applied prospectively to transactions completed after the effective date.

ASU No. 2009-17, Consolidations (Topic 810): Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities: An
amendment for accounting by enterprises involved with VIEs eliminates the scope exception for QSPEs and requires an entity to reconsider its previous consolidation conclusions reached under the VIE consolidation model, including (i) whether an
entity is a VIE, (ii) whether the enterprise is the VIE s primary beneficiary, and (iii) the required financial statement disclosures. The new standard can be applied as of the effective date, with a cumulative-effect adjustment to
retained earnings recognized on that date, or retrospectively, with a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings recognized as of the beginning of the first year adjusted.         The Company has determined that it will be required to consolidate the American Express Credit Account Master Trust (the Lending Trust) as a result of
implementing these standards. This will result in approximately $29.0 billion of additional cardmember loans being recognized on the balance sheet of the Company effective January 1, 2010, along with $25.0 billion of long-term debt. This will
also result in the reduction of the Company s investment securities by $3.6 billion and other assets by $0.7 billion. The $29.0 billion of cardmember loans will require associated loan loss reserves of approximately $2.5 billion, which will be
charged directly against retained earnings. The adjustments described above will reduce shareholders  equity by approximately $1.8 billion on an after-tax basis. Refer to Note 7 for further discussion of the Lending Trust.      NOTE 2      ACQUISITIONS AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS      ACQUISITIONS      Revolution Money      On
January 15, 2010, the Company purchased Revolution Money, a provider of secure person-to-person payment services through an internet based platform, for approximately $300 million. The majority of the consideration paid is expected to be
recorded as goodwill, with the remainder to be allocated to finite-lived intangible assets and other miscellaneous assets and liabilities.      Corporate Payment Services      On March 28, 2008, the Company purchased Corporate Payment Services (CPS), General Electric
Company s commercial card and corporate purchasing business unit. The Company acquired $2.2 billion in assets and assumed $63 million in liabilities. The total cash consideration of $2.3 billion paid by the Company consisted of the contractual
purchase price of approximately $1.1 billion plus the repayment of CPS  $1.2 billion in outstanding debt as of the acquisition date.      DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS      On September 18, 2007, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its international banking
subsidiary, American Express Bank Ltd. (AEB) to Standard Chartered PLC (Standard Chartered) and to sell American Express International Deposit Company (AEIDC) through a put/call agreement to Standard Chartered 18 months after the close of the AEB
sale. The sale of AEB was completed on February 29, 2008. In the third quarter of 2008, AEIDC qualified to be reported as a discontinued operation. The sale of AEIDC was completed on September 10, 2009.      For all periods presented, all of the operating results, assets and liabilities, and cash flows of AEB (except for certain components of AEB
that were not sold) and AEIDC have been removed from the Corporate   Other segment and are presented separately in discontinued operations in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. The Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements have been adjusted to exclude discontinued operations unless otherwise noted.         
    76    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 NOTE 3      FAIR VALUES      As permitted under GAAP, the Company adopted new fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in two phases.
The first phase, effective for the Company January 1, 2008, establishes requirements for fair value measurements of financial assets and liabilities, and other recurring fair value measurements reported or disclosed at fair value. The second
phase, effective for the Company January 1, 2009, establishes requirements for all other assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.      Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date, and is based on the Company s principal or most advantageous market for the specific asset or liability.      GAAP established a three-level hierarchy of inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value, defined as follows:       

Level 1   inputs that are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.          

Level 2   inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly,
for substantially the full term of the
asset or liability, including:          

-  
  Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets         

-  
  Quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active         

-  
  Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability         

-  
  Inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means         

Level 3   inputs that are unobservable and reflect the Company s own assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in
pricing the asset or liability based on the best information available in the circumstances (e.g. internally derived assumptions surrounding the timing and amount of expected cash flows).         As summarized in the table below, the Company has financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. For the year ended
December 31, 2009, the Company did not have any significant assets or liabilities that were measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in periods subsequent to initial recognition.          The following table provides a summary of the estimated fair values for the
Company s financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis by GAAP s valuation hierarchy (as described above), as of December 31:           

(a)  
  Excludes retained subordinated securities and interest-only strip.     

(b)  
  GAAP permits the netting of derivative assets and derivative liabilities when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists between the Company and its
derivative counterparty. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, $33 million and $39 million, respectively, of derivative assets and liabilities have been offset and presented net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(c)  
  The Company s defined benefit pension plan (the Plan) assets are included in the determination of the Plan s net funded status, which is reported in other
liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Plan assets are also measured at fair value on an annual basis, applying inputs in the fair value hierarchy as described above. Refer to Note 21 for further details.           
    77    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 The table below presents a reconciliation of all assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant
unobservable inputs (Level 3) during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, including realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in earnings and accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income:           

(a)  
  Represents cost basis of securitized loans.     

(b)  
  Included in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income.     

(c)  
  Included in securitization income, net.            VALUATION TECHNIQUES USED IN MEASURING      FAIR VALUE      GAAP requires disclosure of the estimated fair value of all financial instruments. A financial instrument
is defined as cash, evidence of an ownership in an entity, or a contract between two entities to deliver cash or another financial instrument or to exchange other financial instruments. The disclosure requirements for the fair value of financial
instruments exclude leases, equity method investments, affiliate investments, pension and benefit obligations, insurance contracts and all non-financial instruments.      For the financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, summarized in the valuation hierarchy table above, the Company applies the following valuation techniques to measure
fair value:      Investment Securities (Excluding Retained Subordinated Securities and the Interest-only Strip)       

When available, quoted market prices in active markets are used to determine fair value. Such investment securities are classified within Level 1 of
the fair value hierarchy.          

When quoted prices in an active market are not available, the fair values for the Company s investment securities are obtained primarily from
pricing services engaged by the Company, and the Company receives one price for each security. The fair values provided by the pricing services are estimated by using pricing models, where the inputs to those models are based on observable market
inputs. The inputs to the valuation techniques applied by the pricing services vary depending on the type of security being priced but are typically benchmark yields, benchmark security prices, credit spreads, prepayment speeds, reported trades and
broker-dealer quotes, all with reasonable levels of
transparency. The pricing services did not apply any adjustments to the pricing models used. In addition, the Company did not apply any adjustments to prices received from the pricing services.
The Company classifies the prices obtained from the pricing services within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because the underlying inputs are directly observable from active markets or recent trades of similar securities in inactive markets.
However, the pricing models used do entail a certain amount of subjectivity and therefore differing judgments in how the underlying inputs are modeled could result in different estimates of fair value.         The Company has reaffirmed its understanding of the valuation techniques used by its pricing services. In addition, the Company corroborates the prices
provided by its pricing services to test their reasonableness by comparing their prices to valuations from different pricing sources as well as comparing prices to the sale prices received from sold securities. Refer to Note 6 for additional fair
value information.      Retained Subordinated Securities      The Company determines the fair value of its retained subordinated securities using discounted cash flow models. The discount rate used is based on an interest rate curve that is observable in the
marketplace plus an unobservable credit spread commensurate with the risk of these securities and similar financial instruments. The Company classifies such securities in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy because the applicable credit spreads are
not observable due to the illiquidity in the market with respect to these securities and similar financial instruments. Refer to Note 7 for additional fair value information.         
    78    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   Interest-only Strip      The fair value of the interest-only strip is the present value of estimated future positive excess spread expected to be generated by the securitized loans over the estimated remaining life of those
loans. Management utilizes certain estimates and assumptions to determine the fair value of the interest-only strip asset, including estimates for finance charge yield, credit losses, London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) (which determines future
certificate interest costs), monthly payment rate and discount rate. On a quarterly basis, the Company compares the assumptions it uses in calculating the fair value of its interest-only strip to observable market data when available, and to
historical trends. The interest-only strip is classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy due to the significance of the unobservable inputs used in valuing this asset. Refer to Note 7 for additional fair value information.      Derivative Financial Instruments      The fair value of the Company s derivative financial instruments, which could be assets or liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, is estimated by using either a third-party valuation service that uses proprietary pricing
models, or by using internal pricing models, neither of which contain a high level of subjectivity as the valuation techniques used do not require significant judgment and inputs to those models are readily observable from actively quoted markets.
In each case, the valuation models used are consistently applied and reflect the contractual terms of the derivatives, including the period of maturity, and market-based parameters such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity indices or
prices, and volatility.      Credit valuation adjustments are necessary when the market parameters (for example, a benchmark curve)
used to value derivatives are not indicative of the credit quality of the Company or its counterparties. The Company considers the counterparty credit risk by applying an observable forecasted default rate to the current exposure. Refer to Note 12
for additional fair value information.            The following table
discloses the estimated fair values for the Company s financial assets and financial liabilities not carried at fair value as of December 31:           
    The fair values of these financial instruments are estimates based upon market conditions and perceived risks as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and require management judgment. These figures may not be indicative of their future fair
values. The fair value of the Company cannot be estimated by aggregating the amounts presented.      The following methods were
used to determine estimated fair values:      FINANCIAL ASSETS FOR WHICH CARRYING VALUES EQUAL OR APPROXIMATE FAIR VALUE
     Financial assets for which carrying values equal or approximate fair value include cash and cash equivalents, cardmember receivables, accrued
interest and certain other assets. For these assets, the carrying values approximate fair value because they are short-term in duration or variable rate in nature.         
    79    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   FINANCIAL ASSETS CARRIED AT OTHER THAN FAIR VALUE      Loans      Loans are recorded at
historical cost, less reserves, on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In estimating the fair value for the Company s loans, the principal market is assumed to be the securitization market, and the Company uses the hypothetical securitization
price to determine the fair value of the portfolio. The securitization price is estimated from the assumed proceeds of the hypothetical securitization in the current market, adjusted for securitization uncertainties such as market conditions and
liquidity.      FINANCIAL LIABILITIES FOR WHICH CARRYING VALUES EQUAL OR APPROXIMATE FAIR VALUE      Financial liabilities for which carrying values equal or approximate fair value include accrued interest, customer deposits (excluding certificates of
deposit, which are described further below), Travelers Cheques outstanding, short-term borrowings and certain other liabilities for which the carrying values approximate fair value because they are short-term in duration, variable rate in nature, or
have no defined maturity.      FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CARRIED AT OTHER THAN FAIR VALUE      Certificates of Deposit      Certificates of deposit (CDs) are recorded at their historical issuance cost on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Fair value is estimated using a discounted cash flow methodology based on the Company s current borrowing rates for
similar types of CDs.      Long-term Debt      Long-term debt is recorded at historical issuance cost on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Fair value is estimated using either quoted market prices or discounted cash flows based on the Company s
current borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing.            NOTE 4      ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE      CARDMEMBER RECEIVABLES      Cardmember receivables represent amounts due from charge
card customers. These receivables are recorded at the time a cardmember enters into a point-of-sale transaction with a merchant. Cardmember receivable balances are presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets net of reserves for losses, discussed
below, and includes principal and any related accrued fees.      RESERVES FOR LOSSES   CARDMEMBER RECEIVABLES      Reserves for losses relating to cardmember receivables represent management s best estimate of the losses inherent in the Company s outstanding
portfolio of receivables. Management s evaluation process requires certain estimates and judgments. Reserves for these losses are primarily based upon models that analyze portfolio performance and reflect management s judgment regarding
overall reserve adequacy. The analytic models take into account several factors, including average losses and recoveries over an appropriate historical period. Management considers whether to adjust the analytic models for specific factors such as
increased risk in certain portfolios, impact of risk management initiatives on portfolio performance and concentration of credit risk based on factors such as tenure, industry or geographic regions. In addition, management adjusts the reserves for
losses for other external environmental factors such as leading economic and market indicators, and the legal and regulatory environment. Generally, due to the short-term nature of cardmember receivables, the impact of the other external
environmental factors on the inherent losses within the cardmember receivable portfolio is not significant. As part of this evaluation process, management also considers various reserve coverage metrics, such as reserves as a percentage of past-due
amounts, reserves as a percentage of cardmember receivables and net write-off coverage.      Cardmember receivables balances are
written off when management deems amounts to be uncollectible and is generally determined by the number of days past due. Cardmember receivables within the U.S. Card Services (USCS) segment are generally written off when 180 days past due and
cardmember receivables within the International Card Services (ICS) and Global Commercial Services (GCS) segments are generally written off when 360 days past billing. Receivables in bankruptcy or owed by deceased individuals are written off upon
notification. Recoveries are recognized on a cash basis.      Prior to the fourth quarter of 2008, cardmember receivables in the
USCS segment were written off when 360 days past billing. During 2008, consistent with applicable bank regulatory guidance, the Company modified its write-off methodology to write off cardmember receivables in the USCS segment when 180 days past
due. Net cardmember
        
    80    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
receivables write-offs in 2008 included approximately $341 million resulting from this change in write-off methodology.      The impact of this change to the provision for charge card losses was not material.      Accounts receivable as of December 31 consisted of:           

(a)  
  Includes receivables primarily related to the Company s business partners and International Currency Card portfolios.     

(c)  
  Other receivables primarily represent amounts due from the Company s travel customers, third party issuing partners, accrued interest on investments, receivables
acquired in connection with the purchase of CPS, Company cash held in an off-balance sheet securitization trust for daily settlement requirements and other receivables due to the Company in the ordinary course of business.     
        The following table presents changes in the cardmember receivables reserve
for losses for years ended December 31:           

(a)  
  For cardmember receivables, represents provision for losses and write-offs consisting of principal (resulting from authorized and unauthorized transactions) and fee
components, less recoveries of $349 million, $187 million and $203 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.     

(b)  
  For December 31, 2008, these amounts primarily include adjustments related to the reclassification of waived fee reserves to a contra-cardmember receivable. This
amount, for all periods, includes foreign currency translation adjustments.        Refer to Note 5 for discussion on pledged
cardmember receivables as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. Also refer to Note 5 for impaired cardmember receivables as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.         
    81    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   NOTE 5      LOANS      CARDMEMBER LOANS      Cardmember loans represent amounts due from lending product customers. These loans are recorded at the time a cardmember enters into a point-of-sale
transaction with a merchant or when a charge card customer enters into an extended payment arrangement. Cardmember loans are presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets net of reserves for cardmember losses, unamortized net card fees and include
accrued interest receivable and fees as of the balance sheet date. The Company s policy is to generally cease accruing for interest receivable on a cardmember loan at the time when the account is written off.      RESERVES FOR LOSSES   CARDMEMBER LOANS      Reserves for losses relating to cardmember loans represent management s best estimate of the losses inherent in the Company s outstanding portfolio of loans. Management s evaluation process
requires certain estimates and judgments. Reserves for these losses are primarily based upon models that analyze portfolio performance and reflect management s judgment regarding overall reserve adequacy. The analytic models take into account
several factors, including average losses and recoveries over an appropriate historical period. Management considers whether to adjust the analytic models for specific factors such as increased risk in certain portfolios, impact of risk management
initiatives on portfolio performance and concentration of credit risk based on factors such as tenure, industry or geographic regions. In addition, management adjusts the reserves for losses for other external environmental factors including leading
economic and market indicators such as the unemployment rate, GDP, home price indices, non-farm payrolls, personal consumption expenditures index, consumer confidence index, purchasing manager s index, bankruptcy filings and the legal and
regulatory environment. As part of this evaluation process, management also considers various reserve coverage metrics, such as reserves as a percentage of past-due amounts, reserves as a percentage of cardmember loans and net write-off coverage.
     Cardmember loan balances are written off when management deems amounts to be uncollectible and is generally determined by the
number of days past due (at 180 days past due). Cardmember loans in bankruptcy or owed by deceased individuals are written off upon notification. Recoveries are recognized on a cash basis.            Loans as of December 31 consisted of:           

(b)  
  Other loans primarily represent small business installment loans, a store card portfolio whose billed business is not processed on the Company s network and small
business loans associated with the CPS acquisition. Other loans at December 31, 2008, included a loan to an affiliate in discontinued operations.        The following table presents changes in the cardmember loans reserve for losses for years ended December 31:           

(a)  
  Represents loss provisions for cardmember loans consisting of principal (resulting from authorized transactions), interest and fee reserves components.

(b)  
  Primarily represents adjustments to cardmember loans resulting from unauthorized transactions. For December 31, 2008 and 2007, this amount also includes waived
fees.     

(d)  
    For December 31, 2009, the amount for cardmember loans primarily includes $160 million of reserves that were removed in connection with
securitizations during the period. The offset is in the allocated cost of the associated retained subordinated
           
    82    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         

securities. For December 31, 2008, these amounts include reclassification of waived fee reserves to contra-cardmember loans. This amount, for all periods, includes foreign currency
translation adjustments.         PLEDGED LOANS AND RECEIVABLES      Certain cardmember loans and receivables totaling approximately $16.3 billion are pledged by the Company to its securitization Trusts (refer to Note 7). Upon
adoption of new GAAP governing transfers of financial assets as of January 1, 2010, and the resulting consolidation of the Lending Trust (refer to Note 1), approximately $29.0 billion of additional cardmember loans will be recognized on the
balance sheet of the Company. While the $29.0 billion of additional cardmember loans were sold by the Company s bank subsidiaries to the Lending Trust, such loans are deemed to be pledged by the Company to the Company s Lending Trust.
     IMPAIRED LOANS AND RECEIVABLES      Individually  impaired  loans and receivables are defined by GAAP as larger balance or smaller balance homogeneous restructured loans and receivables for which it is probable that the lender
will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the original contractual terms of the loan and receivable agreement. The Company may modify cardmember loans and receivables and such modifications may include reducing the interest
rate/delinquency fees on the loans and receivables and/or placing the cardmember on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months. If the cardmember does not comply with the modified terms, then the loan or receivable agreement reverts back to its
original terms. Impaired loans and receivables include long-term modification programs or Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDR), wherein the terms of a loan or receivable have been modified for cardmembers that are experiencing financial difficulties
and a long-term concession (more than 12 months) has been granted to the borrower. TDRs totaled $114 million and $71 million of cardmember loans and receivables outstanding as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Reserves for losses for
TDRs is determined by the difference between cash flows expected to be received from the cardmember discounted at the original contractual interest rates and the carrying value of the cardmember balance.      The Company s policy is generally to accrue interest through the date of charge-off (i.e. 180 days past due). Loans amounting to $299
million and $927 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were past due 90 days or more and still accruing interest. These amounts include $46 million and $69 million of cardmember loans that are also included in the Short Term
Modification Programs discussed above. In addition, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, loans of $494 million and $14 million, respectively, were not accruing interest. These amounts primarily include certain cardmember loans placed with outside
collection agencies.      OTHER LOANS AND RECEIVABLES WITH SHORT-TERM MODIFICATIONS      In addition to the TDRs discussed above, the Company has instituted other modification programs that include short-term (12 months or less) interest rate and
fee reductions to cardmembers experiencing financial difficulty ( Short Term Modification Programs ). As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately $701 million and $497 million, respectively, in cardmember loans and receivables have
been modified under these Short Term Modification Programs. These amounts include $46 million and $69 million, respectively, of cardmember loans that are also included in loans past due 90 days or more still accruing interest discussed above. The
short-term modifications to these cardmember loans and receivables had no incremental impact on the Company s reserve for losses.         
    83    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 NOTE 6      INVESTMENT SECURITIES      Investment securities include debt and equity securities and are classified as available-for-sale. The
Company s investment securities, principally debt securities, are carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with unrealized gains (losses) recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, net of income tax provisions
(benefits). Realized gains and losses are recognized in results of operations upon disposition of the securities using the specific identification method on a trade date basis. Refer to Note 3 for a description of the Company s methodology for
determining the fair value of its investment securities.          The following is
a summary of investment securities as of December 31:           

(a)  
  Represents mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae.     

(b)  
  Consists of investments in retained subordinated securities from the Company s cardmember loan securitization program.     

(c)  
  Represents the Company s investment in Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC).     

(d)  
  The December 31, 2009 balance includes $1.1 billion (cost basis) of corporate debt obligations issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) that
are guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).     

(e)  
  Other is primarily comprised of investments in various mutual funds.            OTHER-THAN-TEMPORARY IMPAIRMENT      Realized losses are recognized when management determines that a decline in value is other-than-temporary. Such determination requires judgment regarding the amount and timing of recovery. The Company reviews and evaluates its investments
at least quarterly and more often, as market conditions may require, to identify investments that have indications of other-than-temporary impairments. The determination of other-than-temporary impairment is a subjective process, requiring the use
of judgments and assumptions. It is reasonably possible that a change in estimate will occur in the near term relating to other-than- temporary impairment. Accordingly, the Company considers several factors when evaluating debt securities for an
other-than-temporary impairment including the determination of the extent to which the decline in fair value of the security is due to increased default risk for the specific issuer or market interest rate risk. With respect to increased default
risk, the Company assesses the collectibility of principal and interest payments by monitoring issuers  credit ratings, related changes to those ratings, specific credit events associated with the individual issuers as well as the credit
ratings of a financial guarantor, where applicable, and the extent to which amortized cost exceeds fair value and the duration and size of that difference. With respect to market interest rate risk, including benchmark interest rates and credit
spreads, the Company assesses whether it has the intent to sell the securities, and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will not be required to sell the securities before recovery of any unrealized losses.         
    84    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   The following table provides information about the Company s investment securities with gross
unrealized losses and the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position as of December 31:           
    The
following table summarizes the unrealized losses of temporary impairments by ratio of fair value to amortized cost as of December 31:           
       
    85    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   The gross unrealized losses on state and municipal securities and all other debt securities are
attributable to a number of reasons such as issuer specific credit spreads and changes in market interest rates.      In assessing
default risk on these securities, excluding the Company s retained subordinated securities, the Company has qualitatively considered the key factors identified above and determined that it expects to collect all of the contractual cash flows
due on the securities. In assessing default risk on the retained subordinated securities, the Company has analyzed the projected cash flows of the American Express Credit Account Master Trust (the Lending Trust) and expects to collect all of the
contractual cash flows due on the securities.      Overall, for the investment securities in gross unrealized loss positions
identified above (a) the Company does not intend to sell the securities, (b) it is more likely than not that the Company will not be required to sell the securities before recovery of the unrealized losses, and (c) the Company expects
that the contractual principal and interest will be received on the securities.      SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION      Gross realized gains and losses on sales of investment securities, included in other non-interest revenues, are as follows:           

(a)  
  Primarily represents the gain from the sale of 50 percent of the Company s investment in ICBC.              Contractual maturities of investment securities, excluding equity securities and
other securities (primarily mutual funds with no stated maturity), as of December 31, 2009, are as follows:       
    The Company s individual investments in the unrated classes of its retained subordinated securities contain multiple maturity dates over periods ranging from 2010 through 2018. Accordingly, in the table above, the Company has
classified such investments based on the weighted-average maturity. In addition, the expected payments on state and municipal obligations and mortgage-backed securities may not coincide with their contractual maturities because borrowers have the
right to call or prepay certain obligations.         
    86    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 NOTE 7      ASSET SECURITIZATIONS      The Company periodically securitizes cardmember receivables and loans arising from its card business
through the transfer of those assets to a trust. The trust then issues securities to third-party investors, collateralized by the transferred assets. Securitization transactions are accounted for as either sales or secured borrowings, based on the
structure of the transaction and the current GAAP requirements. Refer to Note 1 for a description of the changes in GAAP governing the accounting for transfers of financial assets, which will result in all securitization transactions being accounted
for as secured borrowings by the Company effective January 1, 2010.      Based on GAAP in effect at December 31, 2009, in
order for a securitization of financial assets to be accounted for as a sale, the transferor must surrender control over those financial assets to the extent that the transferor receives consideration other than beneficial interests in the
transferred assets.      Cardmember loans are transferred to the American Express Credit Account Master Trust, the Lending Trust,
which meets the criteria of a qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE), and such transactions qualify as accounting sales through year-end, 2009. Accordingly, when loans were sold through securitizations, the Company removed the loans from its
Consolidated Balance Sheets and recognized a gain or loss on sale and retained interests in the securitizations.      Cardmember
receivables are transferred to the American Express Issuance Trust, the Charge Trust, which is not a QSPE. Securitizations of cardmember receivables are accounted for as secured borrowings.      OFF-BALANCE SHEET SECURITIZATIONS      Servicing Portfolio      In consideration for the transfer of the current cardmember loans, as well as the future cash flows
related to the cardmember account, the Company, through its subsidiaries, receives an undivided, pro rata interest in the trust referred to as seller s interest, which is equal to the balance of all cardmember loans ($36.2 billion and $40.5
billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) transferred to the Lending Trust plus the associated accrued interest receivable ($918 million and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) less the investors 
portion of those assets (securitized cardmember loans). Seller s interest is reported as cardmember loans on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Any accrued interest related to the investors  portion of securitized cardmember
loans is reported as other assets on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets.      The Company retains servicing
responsibilities for the transferred cardmember loans through its subsidiary, American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. (TRS), and earns a related fee. No servicing asset or liability is recognized at the time of a securitization
because the Company receives adequate compensation relative to current market servicing fees.      The following table illustrates the activity in
the Lending Trust (including the securitized cardmember loans and seller s interest) for the years ended December 31:       
    The Company announced in the second quarter of 2009 that certain actions affecting outstanding series of securities issued by the Lending Trust were completed in order to adjust the credit enhancement structure of substantially all of the
outstanding series of securities previously issued by the Lending Trust. These actions were to address the concerns of rating agencies and the decline in the trust excess spread due to the performance of the underlying credit card receivables in the
Lending Trust. The actions, which are permitted by the transaction documents governing the Lending Trust, consisted of the following:       

1.  
  Issuance of two new series of investor certificates (collectively, the  Series D Certificates ) equaling approximately $1.5 billion in aggregate. The Series D
Certificates were acquired by the Company in exchange for a portion of the sellers  interest in the Lending Trust. The D Certificates, which were issued at a market interest rate, are subordinated to all other investor certificates and
therefore provide additional credit enhancement to all outstanding series. These certificates have various maturities, including a final maturity of 2018.         
  
    87    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         

2.  
  Designation of a percentage of new principal receivables arising from accounts in the Lending Trust as  Discount Option Receivables  (as defined in the
Lending Trust documentation). As permitted under the terms of the transaction documents governing the Lending Trust, collections on Discount Option Receivables may be applied as finance charge collections, which increased the yield on the assets in
the Lending Trust by approximately 400-650 basis points beginning with the July 2009 monthly reporting period. The designation of Discount Option Receivables is scheduled to continue through 2010.        The actions described above did not have a material impact on the Company s results of operations.      Securitization Income      The
following table summarizes the activity related to securitized loans reported in securitization income, net for the years ended December 31:       

(a)  
  Excess spread, net is the net cash flow from interest and fee collections allocated to the investors  interests after deducting the interest paid on investor
certificates, credit losses, contractual servicing fees, other expenses, and the changes in the fair value of the interest-only strip. This amount excludes issuer rate fee collections, which are a portion of monthly discount revenue that is earned
and collected by the Company on new transactions by cardmembers that have their loans sold into the Lending Trust. These cash flows are available to pay monthly Lending Trust expenses. The issuer rate is reported in discount revenue in the
Company s Consolidated Statements of Income. In periods when the excess spread, net in the Lending Trust becomes negative, and the issuer rate fee collections are utilized to pay Lending Trust expenses, the Company recognizes an expense in
securitization income, net in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income.     
    At the time of a cardmember loan securitization, the Company records a gain (loss) on sale, which is calculated as the difference between the proceeds from
the sale and the book basis of the cardmember loans sold. The book basis is determined by allocating the carrying amount of the sold cardmember loans, net of applicable credit reserves, between the cardmember loans sold and the interests retained
based on their relative fair values. Such fair values are based on market prices at the date of transfer for the sold cardmember loans and on the estimated present value of future cash flows for retained interests. Gains (losses) on sale from
securitizations are reported in securitization income, net in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income. The income component resulting from the release of credit reserves upon sale of cardmember loans is reported as a reduction of
provision for losses from cardmember loans. The removal of credit reserves in connection with retained subordinated securities is offset in the allocated cost of the associated retained subordinated securities.      Retained Interests in Securitized Assets and Fair Value Measurement      The Company retains subordinated interests in the securitized cardmember loans. These interests include one or more A-rated, BBB-rated and unrated investments in tranches of the securitization
(subordinated securities) and an interest-only strip. The following table presents retained interests for the years ended December 31:       

(a)  
  The subordinated securities are accounted for at fair value as available-for-sale investment securities and are reported in investments on the Company s
Consolidated Balance Sheets with unrealized gains (losses) recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income.     

(b)  
  The interest-only strip is accounted for at fair value and is reported in other assets on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets with changes in fair value
recorded in securitization income, net in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income.        Refer to Note 3 for a
description of the Company s methodology for determining the fair value of retained subordinated interests and interest-only strips and related fair value disclosures.         
    88    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 Changes in the estimates and assumptions used may have a significant impact on the Company s valuation of the retained interests. The key
economic assumptions used in measuring the interest-only strip asset at the time of issuance as well as at December 31, 2009, and the sensitivity of the fair value to immediate 10 percent and 20 percent adverse changes in these assumptions are
as follows (rates are per annum):       

(a)  
  The impact on fair value of a 20 percent adverse change is approximately two times the impact of a 10 percent adverse change identified above.     

(b)  
  The fair value of the interest-only strip is $20 million as of December 31, 2009. Therefore, a 10 percent adverse change in the assumption would result in the fair
value of the interest-only strip written down to zero.        The key assumptions and the sensitivity of the current year s fair
value of the retained subordinated securities to immediate 10 percent and 20 percent adverse changes in these key assumptions are as follows:       
    This sensitivity analysis does not represent management s expectations of adverse changes in these assumptions but is provided as a hypothetical scenario to assess the sensitivity of the fair value of the retained subordinated
interests to changes in key inputs. Management cannot extrapolate changes in fair value based on a 10 percent or 20 percent change in all key assumptions simultaneously in part because the relationship of the change in one assumption on the fair
value of the retained interest is calculated independently from any change in another assumption. Changes in one factor may cause changes in another, which could magnify or offset the sensitivities.      Other Disclosures      The table below
summarizes cash flows received from the Lending Trust for the years ended December 31:       

(a)  
  Net of issuance expenses.        The following table
presents quantitative information about delinquencies, net credit losses, and components of securitized cardmember loans as of December 31:       
     
    ON-BALANCE SHEET SECURITIZATIONS      The Company s securitizations of cardmember receivables are accounted for as secured borrowings. The Charge Trust is
        
    89    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
considered a variable interest entity and is consolidated by American Express Receivables Financing Corporation V, LLC, its primary beneficiary, which is in turn consolidated by the Company.
     The cardmember receivables securitized through this entity are not accounted for as sold and continue to be reported as owned
assets on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The related securities issued to third-party investors are reported as long-term debt on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets.      The following table summarizes the total assets and liabilities held by the Charge Trust as of December 31:       
    These receivables are available only for payment of the debt or other obligations issued or arising in the securitization transactions. For these assets, the carrying values approximate fair value because these are short-term in duration.
The long-term debt is payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets. The fair value of these liabilities was $5.0 billion and $4.4 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.      LENDING TRUST AND CHARGE TRUST TRIGGERS      Under the respective terms of the Lending Trust and the Charge Trust agreements, the occurrence of certain events could result in payment of trust expenses, establishment of reserve funds, or in a worst-case scenario, early amortization of
investor certificates.      The following table below presents key metrics reported by each trust as of December 31, 2009:

(a)  
  The excess spread rate, net including issuer rate collections in the Lending Trust is the sum of the net cash flows of the (i) excess spread, net and
(ii) issuer rate, as a percentage of the outstanding investors  certificates. Excess spread, net is the net cash flows from interest and fee collections allocated to the investors  interests after deducting the interest paid on
investors  certificates, credit losses, contractual servicing fees and other expenses. The deductions may be a greater amount than the collections, resulting in negative spread losses. Excess spread, net is reported by the Company in
securitization income, net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See above for the disclosure of excess spread, net.     

(b)  
  The excess spread rate, net in the Charge Trust is the net cash flows from the discounted portion of principal collections allocated to the investors  interests
after deducting the interest paid on investors  notes, credit losses, contractual servicing fees and other expenses, as a percentage of the outstanding investors  notes.     

(c)  
  If the three-month average excess spread rate, net including issuer rate collections falls below the trigger level of 5 percent or 4 percent for the Lending Trust and
Charge Trust, respectively, the affected Trust is required to fund a cash account in increasing amounts ($3 million to $1.7 billion for the Lending Trust and $11 million to $170 million for the Charge Trust) depending on the severity by which the
excess spread rate, net falls below the trigger level.        In the event of an early amortization of the Lending Trust, the investor
certificates would be required to be repaid over an approximate four month period, based on the estimated average life of the securitized loans. Although the repayment of the investor certificates is non-recourse to the Company, the Company would
need an alternate source of funding for the lending receivables assets.      In the event of an early amortization of the Charge
Trust, the underlying investor notes issued by the Charge Trust are required to be repaid over an approximate one month period, based on the estimated average life of the securitized receivable.         
    90    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 NOTE 8      OTHER ASSETS      The following is a summary of other assets as of December 31:       

(b)  
  Includes restricted cash of $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2009, which is held for certain asset-backed securitization maturities that will occur in the first
quarter of 2010.     

(c)  
  Includes prepaid miles and reward points acquired from airline and other partners of approximately $1.3 billion and $950 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2009
and 2008. Of these amounts, approximately $889 million and $900 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, represented miles purchased from Delta that are generally subject to certain restrictions and will be expensed as used in
the future.        GOODWILL      Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost of an acquired company over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The Company assigns goodwill to its reporting units for the
purpose of impairment testing. A reporting unit is defined as an operating segment, or a business one level below an operating segment for which complete, discrete financial information is available that management regularly reviews. The Company
evaluates goodwill for impairment annually as of June 30 and between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that more likely than not reduce the fair value of reporting units below their carrying amounts. The goodwill impairment
test utilizes a two-step approach. The first step identifies whether there is potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to the carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its
carrying amount, the second step of the impairment test is required to measure the amount of any impairment loss. Goodwill was not impaired as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.      Goodwill impairment testing involves management judgment, requiring an assessment of whether the carrying value of the reporting unit can be
supported by the fair value of the individual reporting unit using widely accepted valuation techniques, such as the market approach (earnings multiples or transaction multiples) or income approach (discounted cash flow methods). The fair values of
the reporting units were determined using a combination of valuation techniques consistent with the income approach and the market approach.      When preparing discounted cash flow models under the income approach, the Company uses internal forecasts to estimate future cash flows expected to be generated by the reporting units. Actual results may
differ from forecasted results. The Company uses the expected cost of equity financing, estimated using a capital asset pricing model, to discount future cash flows for each reporting unit. The Company believes the discount rates used appropriately
reflect the risks and uncertainties in the financial markets generally and specifically in the Company s internally developed forecasts. Further, to assess the reasonableness of the valuations derived from the discounted cash flow models, the
Company also analyzes market based multiples for similar industries of the reporting unit, where available.          The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill reported in the Company s reportable operating segments were as follows. During 2009 and 2008, there were no accumulated goodwill impairment losses.

(a)  
  Includes approximately $818 million related to the acquisition of General Electric Company s commercial card and corporate purchasing business.
          
    91    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS      Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives of 1 to 22 years. The Company reviews intangible assets for impairment quarterly and whenever events and circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be
recoverable. In addition, on an annual basis, the Company performs an impairment evaluation of all intangible assets by assessing the recoverability of the asset values based on the cash flows generated by the relevant assets or asset groups. An
impairment is recognized if the carrying amount is not recoverable and exceeds the asset s fair value.          The components of other intangible assets were as follows:           

(a)  
  Includes approximately $265 million related to a customer intangible payment made in connection with the renegotiated contract with Delta Air Lines.
       Amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $140 million, $83 million and $47 million,
respectively. Intangible assets acquired in 2009 and 2008 are being amortized, on average, over 5 years and 8 years, respectively.      Estimated
amortization expense for other intangible assets over the next five years is as follows:           
        OTHER      The Company has $168 million
and $141 million in affordable housing partnership interests as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, included in other assets in the table above. The Company is a limited partner and typically has a less than 50 percent interest in the
affordable housing partnerships. These partnership interests are accounted for in accordance with GAAP governing equity method investments and joint ventures.         
    92    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   NOTE 9      CUSTOMER DEPOSITS      As of December 31, customer deposits were categorized as
interest-bearing or non-interest-bearing deposits as follows:           
    The customer deposits are aggregated by deposit type offered by the Company as of December 31 as follows:           
          The scheduled maturities of all certificates of deposit as of December 31, 2009 are as follows:           
    As of December 31, certificates of deposit in denominations of $100,000 or more were as follows:           
       
    93    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   NOTE 10      DEBT      SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS      The Company s short-term borrowings outstanding, defined as borrowings with original maturities of less than one year, were as follows as of
December 31:           

(a)  
  For floating rate debt issuances, the stated and effective interest rates are based on the floating rates in effect as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
These rates may not be indicative of future interest rates.     

(b)  
  Effective interest rates are only presented if swaps are in place to hedge the underlying debt.     

(c)  
  December 31, 2008 balance includes $4.5 billion of commercial paper purchased by the Federal Reserve Bank s Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) through the
Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF). As of December 31, 2009, no commercial paper purchased by the SPV was outstanding.     

(d)  
  Includes interest-bearing overdrafts with banks of $277 million and $382 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, balances include
interest bearing amounts due to merchants in accordance with merchant service agreements, as well as other short-term borrowings.           
    94    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   LONG-TERM DEBT      The Company s long-term debt outstanding, defined as debt with original maturities of one year or greater, as of December 31 was as follows:           

(a)  
  The outstanding balances reflect the impact of fair value hedge accounting whereby certain fixed rate notes have been swapped to floating rate through the use of
interest rate swaps and are marked to market, as are the associated swaps, which are reported as derivative assets or liabilities. In 2009 and 2008, the impact on long-term debt due to fair value hedge accounting was $0.6 billion and $1.0 billion,
respectively. Refer to Note 12 for more details on the Company s treatment of fair value hedges.     

(b)  
  For floating rate debt issuances, the stated and effective interest rates are based on the floating rates in effect as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
These rates may not be indicative of future interest rates.     

(c)  
  Effective interest rates are only presented when swaps are in place to hedge the underlying debt.     

(d)  
  The maturity date will automatically be extended to September 1, 2066, except in the case of either (i) a prior redemption or (ii) a default. See further
discussion below.     
       
    95    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 As of December 31, 2009, the Parent Company had $750 million principal outstanding of Subordinated Debentures that accrue interest at an
annual rate of 6.80 percent until September 1, 2016, and at an annual rate of three-month LIBOR plus 2.23 percent thereafter. At the Company s option, the Subordinated Debentures are redeemable for cash after September 1, 2016 at 100
percent of the principal amount plus any accrued but unpaid interest. If the Company fails to achieve specified performance measures, it will be required to issue its common shares and apply the net proceeds to make interest payments on the
Subordinated Debentures. No dividends on the Company s common or preferred shares could be paid until such interest payments are made. The Company would fail to meet these specific performance measures if (i) the Company s tangible
common equity is less than 4 percent of total adjusted assets for the most recent quarter or (ii) if the trailing two quarters  consolidated net income is equal to or less than zero and tangible common equity as of the trigger
determination date, and as of the end of the quarter end six months prior, has in each case declined by 10 percent or more from the tangible common equity as of the end of the quarter 18 months prior to the trigger determination date. The Company
met the specified performance measures in 2009.      As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company was not in violation of any
of its debt covenants.          Aggregate annual maturities on long-term debt
obligations (based on final maturity dates) were as follows as of December 31, 2009:           
        As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company maintained total bank lines of credit of $12.2 billion and $11.2 billion, respectively. Of the total
credit lines, $9.0 billion and $8.7 billion were unutilized, and for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, the Company paid $6.8 million and $6.0 million in fees to maintain these lines. $8.2 billion and $7.9 billion of
these unutilized amounts supported commercial paper borrowings as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.      The
availability of these credit lines is subject to the Company s compliance with certain financial covenants, including the maintenance by the Company of consolidated tangible net worth of at least $4.1 billion, the maintenance by American
Express Credit Corporation (Credco) of a 1.25 ratio of combined earnings and fixed charges to fixed charges, and the compliance by American Express Centurion Bank (Centurion Bank) and American Express Bank, FSB (FSB) with applicable regulatory
capital adequacy guidelines. As of December 31, 2009, the Company s consolidated tangible net worth was approximately $11.6 billion, Credco s ratio of combined earnings and fixed charges to fixed charges was 1.59 and Centurion Bank
and FSB each exceeded their regulatory capital adequacy guidelines.      The committed bank credit facilities do not contain
material adverse change clauses and the facilities may not be terminated should there be a change in the Company s credit rating.      The Company paid total interest primarily related to short- and long-term debt, corresponding interest rate swaps and customer deposits of $2.3 billion, $3.5 billion and $3.7 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.         
    96    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 NOTE 11      OTHER LIABILITIES      The following is a summary of other liabilities as of December 31:       

(a)  
  Employee-related liabilities include employee benefit plan obligations and incentive compensation.     

(b)  
  Rebate accruals include payments to third-party card issuing partners and cash-back reward costs.     

(c)  
  Other includes accruals for general operating expenses, advertising and promotion, derivatives, restructuring and reengineering reserves, and minority interest in
subsidiaries.        Membership Rewards      The Membership Rewards program allows enrolled cardmembers to earn points that can be redeemed for a broad range of rewards, including travel, entertainment, retail certificates, and merchandise. The
Company establishes balance sheet liabilities which represent the estimated cost of points earned to date that are ultimately expected to be redeemed. These liabilities reflect management s best estimate of future redemption costs. An ultimate
redemption rate and weighted average cost per point are key factors used to approximate the Membership Reward liability. Management uses models to estimate ultimate redemption rates based on historical redemption data, card product type, year of
program enrollment, enrollment tenure and card spend levels. The weighted-average cost per point is determined using actual redemptions during the previous 12 months, adjusted as appropriate for recent changes in redemption costs.      The provision for the cost of Membership Rewards points is included in marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services. The Company
continually evaluates its reserve methodology and assumptions based on developments in redemption patterns, cost per point redeemed, contract changes, and other factors.      DEFERRED CHARGE CARD FEES      The carrying amount of deferred charge card and other
fees, net of direct acquisition costs and reserves for membership cancellations as of December 31 were as follows:       

(a)  
  Includes deferred fees for Membership Reward program participants.           
    97    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 NOTE 12      DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES      The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage exposure to various market
risks. Market risk is the risk to earnings or value resulting from movements in market prices. The Company s market risk exposure is primarily generated by:       

Interest rate risk in its card and insurance and travelers cheque businesses, and its investment portfolios; and          

Foreign exchange risk in its international operations.         General principles and the overall framework for managing market risk across the Company are defined in the Market Risk Policy, which is the responsibility of the Asset-Liability Committee (ALCO). Market
risk limits and escalation triggers in that policy are approved by the ALCO and by the Enterprise-wide Risk Management Committee (ERMC). Market risk is centrally managed by the Market Risk Committee, which reports into the ALCO and is chaired by the
Chief Market Risk Officer of the Company. Market risk management is also guided by policies covering the use of derivative financial instruments, funding and liquidity and investments. Derivative financial instruments derive their value from an
underlying variable or multiple variables, including interest rate, foreign exchange, and equity indices or prices. These instruments enable end users to increase, reduce or alter exposure to various market risks and, for that reason, are an
integral component of the Company s market risk management.      The Company s market exposures are in large part
by-products of the delivery of its products and services. Interest rate risk arises through the funding of cardmember receivables and fixed-rate loans with variable-rate borrowings as well as through the risk to net interest margin from changes in
the relationship between benchmark rates such as Prime and LIBOR.      Interest rate exposure within the Company s charge card
and fixed-rate lending products is managed by varying the proportion of total funding provided by short-term and variable-rate debt and deposits compared to fixed-rate debt and deposits. In addition, interest rate swaps are used from time to time to
effectively convert fixed-rate debt to variable-rate or to convert variable-rate debt to fixed rate. The Company may change the mix between variable-rate and fixed-rate funding based on changes in business volumes and mix, among other factors. The
majority of its cardmember loans, which are linked to a benchmark rate such as Prime that can reprice monthly, are funded with variable-rate funding, the majority of which are linked to LIBOR.      Foreign exchange risk is generated by cardmember cross-currency charges, foreign currency balance sheet exposures, translation of foreign
subsidiary equity, and foreign currency earnings in international units. The Company s foreign exchange risk is managed primarily by entering into agreements to buy and sell currencies on a spot basis or by hedging this market exposure to the
extent it is economically justified through various means, including the use of derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward, options, and cross-currency swap contracts, which can help  lock in  the value of the
Company s exposure to specific currencies. The Company does not engage in derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.      Derivative financial instruments may contain counterparty credit risk. The Company manages this risk by considering the current exposure, which is the replacement cost of contracts on the measurement date, as well as estimating the maximum
potential value of the contracts over the next 12 months, considering such factors as the volatility of the underlying or reference index. To mitigate derivative credit risk, counterparties are required to be pre-approved and rated as investment
grade. Counterparty risk exposures are monitored by the Company s Institutional Risk Management Committee (IRMC). The IRMC formally reviews large institutional exposures to ensure compliance with the Company s ERMC guidelines and
procedures and determines the risk mitigation actions, when necessary. Additionally, to mitigate counterparty credit risk the Company may, on occasion, enter into master netting agreements.      As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the counterparty credit risk associated with the Company s derivative financial instruments was
not significant. In relation to the Company s credit risk, under the terms of its derivative financial instruments, the Company is not required to either immediately settle any outstanding liability balances, or post collateral upon the
occurrence of a specified credit risk-related event.         
    98    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 The Company s derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The accounting for changes in
fair value depends on the instruments  intended use and the resulting hedge designation, if any, as discussed below. Refer to Note 3 for a description of the Company s methodology for determining the fair value of its derivative
financial instruments. The following table summarizes the total gross fair value, excluding interest accruals, of derivative product assets and liabilities as of December 31:           

(a)  
  As of December 31, 2009, foreign exchange contracts also include foreign currency derivatives embedded in certain operating agreements.     

(b)  
  Represents an equity-linked derivative embedded in one of the Company s investment securities.     

(c)  
  GAAP permits the netting of derivative assets and derivative liabilities when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists between the Company and its
derivative counterparty. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, $33 million and $39 million, respectively, of derivative assets and liabilities have been offset and presented net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.            DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS THAT QUALIFY FOR HEDGE ACCOUNTING
     Derivative financial instruments executed for hedge accounting purposes are documented and designated as such when the Company enters into the
contracts. In accordance with its risk management policies, the Company structures its hedges with very similar terms to the hedged items. The Company formally assesses, at inception of the hedge accounting relationship and on a quarterly basis,
whether derivatives designated as hedges are highly effective in offsetting the fair value or cash flows of hedged items. These assessments usually are made through the application of the regression analysis method. If it is determined that a
derivative is not highly effective as a hedge, the Company will discontinue the application of hedge accounting.      FAIR VALUE
HEDGES      A fair value hedge involves a derivative designated to hedge the Company s exposure to future changes in the fair value of an
asset or a liability, or an identified portion thereof that is attributable to a particular risk. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk associated with its fixed-rate long-term debt. The Company uses interest rate swaps to convert certain
fixed-rate long-term debt to floating-rate at the time of issuance. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company hedged $15.1 billion and $12.4 billion, respectively, of its fixed-rate debt to floating-rate debt using interest rate swaps.
     To the extent the fair value hedge is effective, the gain or loss on the hedging instrument offsets the loss or gain on the
hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. Any difference between the changes in the fair value of the derivative and the hedged item is referred to as hedge ineffectiveness and is recorded in earnings as a component of other, net expenses. Hedge
ineffectiveness may be caused by differences between the debt s interest coupon and the benchmark rate, which is in turn primarily due to credit spreads at inception of the hedging relationship that are not reflected in the valuation of the
interest rate swap. Furthermore, hedge ineffectiveness may be caused by changes in the relationship between 3-month LIBOR and 1-month LIBOR rates, as these so-called basis spreads may impact the valuation of the interest rate swap without causing an
offsetting impact in the value of the hedged debt. If a fair value hedge is de-designated or no longer considered to be effective, changes in fair value of the         
    99    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
derivative continue to be recorded through earnings but the hedged asset or liability is no longer adjusted for changes in fair value. The existing basis adjustment of the hedged asset or
liability is then amortized or accreted as an adjustment to yield over the remaining life of that asset or liability.          The following table summarizes the impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of fair value hedges associated with the Company s fixed-rate long-term debt described above for the years ended
December 31:       
        CASH FLOW HEDGES      A cash flow hedge
involves a derivative financial instrument designated to hedge the Company s exposure to variable future cash flows attributable to a particular risk of an existing recognized asset or liability, or a forecasted transaction. The Company hedges
existing long-term variable-rate debt, the rollover of short-term borrowings and the anticipated forecasted issuance of additional funding through the use of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. These instruments
effectively convert floating-rate debt to fixed-rate debt for the duration of the swap. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company hedged $1.6 billion and $4.7 billion, respectively, of its floating debt using interest rate swaps.
     For derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivatives are recorded in
accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income and reclassified into earnings when the hedged cash flows are recognized in earnings. The amount that is reclassified into earnings is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income with the hedged
instrument or transaction impact, primarily in interest expense. Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the derivatives is reported as a component of other, net expenses. If a cash flow hedge is de-designated or terminated prior to maturity,
the amount previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income is recognized into earnings over the period that the hedged item impacts earnings. If a hedge relationship is discontinued because it is probable that the forecasted
transaction will not occur according to the original strategy, any related amounts previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income are recognized into earnings immediately.      In the normal course of business, as the hedged cash flows are recognized into earnings, the Company expects to reclassify $32 million of net
pretax losses on derivative instruments from accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income into earnings during the next 12 months.      NET INVESTMENT HEDGES      A net investment hedge is used to hedge future changes in currency exposure of a net investment in a
foreign operation. The Company primarily designates foreign currency derivatives, typically foreign exchange forwards, and on occasion foreign currency denominated debt, as hedges of net investments in certain foreign operations. These instruments
reduce exposure to changes in currency exchange rates on the Company s investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries. The effective portion of the gain or loss on net investment hedges are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income as
part of the cumulative translation adjustment. Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on net investment hedges is recognized in other, net expenses during the period of change.         
    100    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   The following table summarizes the impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of cash flow hedges
and net investment hedges for the years ended December 31:           

Derivative impact on statement of income (loss) gain  

Derivative ineffectiveness   (loss)
gain   
 
     (Millions)    
      
  Location   Reclassified
from OCI into Income  
      
  Amount   Reclassified from OCI into Income  

Location   Reclassified from OCI into Income  
      
  Amount   
 
    Derivative relationship   

2009   

2008  

2009   

2008   
 
    Cash flow hedges (a)(b) :   

Interest rate contracts   
      
  Interest expense  
      
   $   
   (115   
   )    
     
  $  
  (247  
  )   
     
  Other, net expenses  
      
   $   

$  

Net investment hedges (b) :   

Foreign exchange contracts   
      
  Other, net expenses  
      
   $   

$  

Other, net expenses  
      
   $   
   (1   
   )    
     
  $  
  3        

(a)  
  As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, there was no impact on the Consolidated Statements of Income due to forecasted transactions no longer probable to occur.

(b)  
  The effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivatives is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income (OCI) and is presented in Note 15.
           DERIVATIVES NOT DESIGNATED AS HEDGES
     The Company has derivative financial instruments that act as economic hedges and are not designated for hedge accounting purposes. Foreign
currency transactions and non-U.S. dollar cash flow exposures from time to time may be partially or fully economically hedged through foreign currency contracts, primarily foreign exchange forwards, options, and cross-currency swaps. These hedges
generally mature within one year. Foreign currency contracts involve the purchase and sale of a designated currency at an agreed upon rate for settlement on a specified date. The changes in the fair value of the derivatives effectively offset the
related foreign exchange gains or losses on the underlying balance sheet exposures. From time to time, the Company may enter into interest rate swaps to specifically manage funding costs related to its proprietary card business.      The Company has certain operating agreements whose payments may be linked to a market rate or price, primarily foreign currency rates. The
payment components of these agreements may meet the definition of an embedded derivative, which is assessed to determine if it requires separate accounting and reporting. If so, the embedded derivative is accounted for separately and is classified
as a foreign exchange contract based on its primary risk exposure. In addition, the Company also holds an investment security containing an embedded equity-linked derivative.      For derivative financial instruments that are not designated as hedges, changes in fair value are reported in current period earnings.
         The following table summarizes the impact on the Consolidated Financial
Statements of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges for the years ended December 31:       

(Millions)    
      
    Income Statement
classification of gain (loss) on     derivatives not designated as hedges   
      
  Amount recognized   

Derivative relationship   

2009   

2008  

Derivatives not designated as hedges   

Interest rate contracts   
      
  Other, net expenses  
      
   $   
   17   

$  
  (33  
  )   
 
    Foreign exchange contracts (a)    
      
  Other non-interest revenues  

(1   
   )   

Interest and dividends on investment securities  

4   

13  

Interest expense on short-term borrowings  

5   

(7  
  )    

Interest expense on long-term debt and other  

35   

22  

Other, net expenses  

(5   
   )   

(38  
  )   
 
    Equity-linked contract   
      
  Other non-interest revenues  

1   

Total   

$   
   56   

$  
  (43  
  )        

(a)  
  For the period ended December 31, 2009, foreign exchange contracts include embedded foreign currency derivatives. Gains (Losses) on embedded derivatives are
included in other, net expenses.           
    101    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   NOTE 13      GUARANTEES      The Company provides cardmember protection plans that cover losses
associated with purchased products, as well as certain other guarantees in the ordinary course of business which are within the scope of GAAP governing the accounting for guarantees. For the Company, guarantees primarily consist of card and travel
protection programs, including:       

Credit Card Registry   cancels and requests replacement of lost or stolen cards, and provides for fraud liability coverage;

Return Protection   refunds the price of eligible purchases made with the card where the merchant will not accept the return for up to 90 days
from the date of purchase;          

Account Protection   provides account protection in the event that a cardmember is unable to make payments on the account due to unforeseen
hardship; and,          

Merchant Protection   protects cardmembers primarily against non-delivery of goods and services, usually in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation
of a merchant. In the event that a dispute is resolved in the cardmember s favor, the Company will credit the cardmember account for the amount of the purchase and will seek recovery from the merchant. If the Company is unable to collect the
amount from the merchant, it will bear the loss for the amount credited to the cardmember. The Company mitigates this risk by withholding settlement from the merchant or obtaining deposits and other guarantees from merchants considered higher risk
due to various factors. The amounts being held by the Company are not significant when compared to the maximum potential amount of future payments under this guarantee.               In relation to its maximum amount of undiscounted future payments as seen in the table that follows, to date the Company has
not experienced any significant losses related to guarantees. The Company s initial recognition of guarantees is at fair value, which has been determined in accordance with GAAP governing fair value measurement. In addition, the Company
establishes reserves when an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.      The
following table provides information related to such guarantees as of December 31:       

(a)  
  Represents the notional amounts that could be lost under the guarantees and indemnifications if there were a total default by the guaranteed parties. The Merchant
Protection guarantee is calculated using management s best estimate of maximum exposure based on all eligible claims as measured against annual billed business volumes.     

(b)  
  Included as part of other liabilities on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(c)  
  Includes Credit Card Registry, Return Protection, Account Protection and Merchant Protection, which the Company offers directly to cardmembers.

(d)  
  Other primarily includes guarantees related to the Company s business dispositions, real estate, and tax, as well as contingent consideration obligations, each of
which are individually smaller indemnifications.        Refer to Note 26 for a discussion of additional guarantees of the Company as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008.         
    102    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   NOTE 14      COMMON AND PREFERRED SHARES AND WARRANTS      As of December 31, 2009, the
Company has 100 million common shares remaining under share repurchase authorizations. Such authorizations do not have an expiration date, and at present, there is no intention to modify or otherwise rescind the current authorizations.
     Common shares are generally retired by the Company upon repurchase (except for 5.0 million, 0.4 million and
0.5 million shares held as treasury shares at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively); retired common shares and treasury shares are excluded from the shares outstanding in the table below. The Treasury shares, with a cost basis of
$235 million, $21 million and $29 million as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, are included as a reduction to additional paid-in capital in shareholders  equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.      The following table shows authorized shares and provides a reconciliation of common shares issued and outstanding:       

(a)  
  Of the common shares authorized but unissued as of December 31, 2009, approximately 124 million shares were reserved for issuance under employee stock and
employee benefit plans.              The Board of Directors is
authorized to permit the Company to issue up to 20 million preferred shares at a par value of $1.66 2/3 without further shareholder approval.      On January 9, 2009, under the United States Department of the Treasury (Treasury Department) Capital Purchase Program (CPP), the Company issued to the Treasury Department as consideration for
aggregate proceeds of $3.39 billion: (1) 3.39 million shares of Fixed Rate (5 percent) Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Shares Series A (the Preferred Shares), and (2) a ten-year warrant (the Warrant) for the
Treasury Department to purchase up to 24 million common shares at an exercise price of $20.95 per share. Upon issuance, $3.16 billion of the proceeds were allocated to the Preferred Shares, and $232 million of the proceeds were
allocated to the Warrant based on their relative fair values at the date of issuance.      As a pre-condition of the repurchase of
the Preferred Shares, the Treasury Department and the Company s Banking Regulator required that the Company raise capital in the public markets. As a result, the Company issued $3.0 billion of non-guaranteed senior debt on May 18, 2009 and
approximately 22 million common shares at $25.25 per share in June 2009.      On June 17, 2009, the Company repurchased
the Preferred Shares at their face value of $3.39 billion. Because the $3.39 billion cash paid exceeded the $3.18 billion amortized carrying amount of the Preferred Shares, the $212 million excess represented an in-substance
Preferred Share dividend that reduced earnings per share (EPS) attributable to common shareholders by $0.18 for the year ended December 31, 2009. Refer to Note 18.      On July 29, 2009, the Company repurchased the Warrant for $340 million. The Warrant repurchase resulted in reductions of cash,
retained earnings and additional paid-in-capital on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Warrant repurchase had no impact on the Consolidated Income Statement and EPS for the year ended December 31, 2009. There were no preferred
shares or warrants issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2009.         
    103    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   NOTE 15      CHANGES IN ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME      Accumulated other
comprehensive (loss) income (OCI) is a balance sheet item in the Shareholders  Equity section of the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. It is comprised of items that have not been recognized in earnings but may be recognized in
earnings in the future when certain events occur. Changes in each component of OCI for the three years ended December 31, were as follows:       
       
    104    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         

(a)  
  The following table shows the tax impact for the three years ended December 31, for the changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income:

(b)  
  In connection with the Company s adoption of hybrid financial instrument accounting requirements, as of January 1, 2007, the Company recognized a gain of $80
million ($50 million after-tax) related to the fair value of the interest-only strip, which was recorded in other comprehensive (loss) income in previous periods. Changes in the fair value of the interest-only strip subsequent to the adoption of
this standard are reflected in securitization income, net.     

(c)  
  Relates to the change in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income prior to the dispositions of AEB and AEIDC.     

(d)  
  Includes a $190 million other comprehensive loss, recorded in the third quarter of 2009, representing the correction of an error related to the accounting in prior
periods for cumulative translation adjustments associated with a net investment in foreign subsidiaries. (Refer to Note 19 for further details).           
    105    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 NOTE 16      RESTRUCTURING CHARGES      During 2009, the Company recorded $185 million of restructuring charges, net of adjustments of
previously accrued amounts due to revisions of prior estimates. The 2009 activity primarily relates to the $199 million of restructuring charges the Company recorded in the second quarter to further reduce its operating costs by downsizing and
reorganizing certain operations. These restructuring activities were for the elimination of approximately 4,000 positions or about 6 percent of the Company s total worldwide workforce and occurred across all business units, markets and staff
groups. Additional restructuring charges of $38 million taken in the third and fourth quarters of 2009 relate principally to the reorganization of certain senior leadership positions, as well as the exit of a business in the Global
Network   Merchant Services (GNMS) segment. The Company also recorded adjustments of $(52) million during 2009 that primarily relate to revisions of prior estimates for higher employee redeployments to other positions within the Company,
business changes and modifications to existing initiatives. These modifications do not constitute a significant change in the original restructuring plan from an overall Company perspective.      During 2008, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $434 million, net of adjustments of previously accrued amounts due to revisions of
prior estimates. While the Company s restructuring activity in the first and third quarters of 2008 primarily related to exiting certain international banking businesses, the Company recorded $410 million of restructuring charges in the fourth
quarter of 2008 in order to further reduce the Company s cost structure. This restructuring was for the elimination of approximately 7,000 positions or approximately 10 percent of its total worldwide workforce. These reductions primarily
occurred across business units, markets and staff groups focusing on management and other positions that do not interact directly with customers, and related to reorganizing or automating certain internal processes; outsourcing certain operations to
third parties; and discontinuing or relocating business activities to other locations. During 2007, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $49 million, net of adjustments of previously accrued amounts due to revisions of prior estimates,
primarily related to the reorganizations within the Company s business travel, operations, finance, and technology areas.      Restructuring charges related to severance obligations are included in salaries and employee benefits and discontinued operations in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income, while charges pertaining to other exit costs are
included in occupancy and equipment, professional services, other, net expenses and discontinued operations.          The following table summarizes the Company s restructuring reserves activity for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:       

(a)  
  Accounted for in accordance with the GAAP governing the accounting for nonretirement postemployment benefits and for costs associated with exit or disposal activities.

(b)  
  Other primarily includes facility exit, asset impairment and contract termination costs.     

(c)  
  Adjustments primarily relate to higher than anticipated redeployments of displaced employees to other positions within the Company.     

(d)  
  Includes $17 million related to discontinued operations.     

(e)  
  Adjustments of $52 million were recorded in the Company s reportable operating segments as follows: $6 million in USCS, $28 million in ICS, $(15) million in GCS,
$3 million in GNMS, and $30 million in Corporate   Other. These adjustments primarily relate to higher employee redeployments to other positions within the Company, business changes and modifications to existing initiatives.

(f)  
  Consists primarily of foreign exchange impacts offset by asset impairments directly related to restructuring activity.           
    106    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         

(g)  
  The majority of cash payments related to the remaining restructuring liabilities are expected to be completed in 2010, with the exception of certain smaller amounts
related to contractual long-term severance arrangements which are expected to be completed in 2012, and certain lease obligations which will continue until their expiration in 2018.        The following table summarizes the Company s restructuring charges, net of adjustments, by reportable segment for the year ended December 31, 2009,
and the cumulative amounts relating to the restructuring programs that were in progress during 2009 and initiated at various dates between 2006 and 2009.       

(a)  
  The Corporate   Other segment includes certain 2009 and 2008 severance and other charges of $6 million and $133 million, respectively, related to Company-wide
support functions which were not allocated to the Company s operating segments, as these were corporate initiatives and are consistent with how such charges were reported internally.     

(b)  
  As of December 31, 2009, the total expenses to be incurred for previously approved restructuring activities that were in progress are not expected to be materially
different than the cumulative expenses incurred to date for these programs.           
    107    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   NOTE 17      INCOME TAXES      The components of income tax expense included in the Consolidated
Statements of Income were as follows:       
    A
reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent to the Company s actual income tax rate for the years ended December 31 on continuing operations was as follows:       

(a)  
  Relates to the resolution of tax matters in various jurisdictions.              The Company records a deferred income tax (benefit) provision when there are differences between assets and
liabilities measured for financial reporting and for income tax return purposes. These temporary differences result in taxable or deductible amounts in future years and are measured using the tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such
differences are expected to reverse. The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December 31 are reflected in the following table:       
    A valuation allowance is established when management determines that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the benefit of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowances as of December 31, 2009
and 2008 are associated with non-U.S. operations and relate to all of the Company s net operating losses and other deferred tax assets.      Accumulated earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries, which totaled approximately $6.6 billion as of December 31, 2009, are intended to be permanently reinvested outside the United States. The
Company does not provide for federal income taxes on foreign earnings intended to be permanently reinvested outside the United States. Accordingly, federal taxes, which would have aggregated approximately $1.8 billion as of December 31,
2009, have not been provided on those earnings.      Net income taxes paid by the Company (including amounts related to
discontinued operations) during 2009, 2008 and 2007, were approximately $0.4 billion, $2.0 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. These amounts include estimated tax payments and cash settlements relating to prior tax years.         
    108    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   The Company, its wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries, and certain non-U.S. subsidiaries file
a consolidated federal income tax return. The Company is subject to the income tax laws of the United States, its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates. These tax laws are complex, and the
manner in which they apply to the taxpayer s facts is sometimes open to interpretation. Given these inherent complexities, the Company must make judgments in assessing the likelihood that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the
taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the tax position. A tax position is recognized only when, based on management s judgment regarding the application of income tax laws, it is more likely than not that the tax position will be
sustained upon examination. The amount of benefit recognized for financial reporting purposes is based on management s best judgment of the most likely outcome resulting from examination given the facts, circumstances and information available
at the reporting date. The Company adjusts the level of unrecognized tax benefits when there is new information available to assess the likelihood of the outcome.      The Company is under continuous examination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and tax authorities in other countries and states in which the Company has significant business operations. The tax years
under examination and open for examination vary by jurisdiction. In June 2008, the IRS completed its field examination of the Company s federal tax returns for the years 1997 through 2002. In July 2009, the IRS completed its field
examination of the Company s federal tax returns for the years 2003 and 2004. However, all of these years continue to remain open as a consequence of certain issues under appeal. The Company is currently under examination by the IRS for the
years 2005 through 2007.      The following table presents changes in the unrecognized tax benefits:       
          Included in the $1.1 billion, $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, are
approximately $480 million, $452 million and $597 million, respectively that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective tax rate in a future period. These benefits primarily relate to the Company s gross permanent benefits and
corresponding foreign tax credits and federal tax effects.     The Company believes it is reasonably possible that the unrecognized
tax benefits could decrease within the next 12 months by as much as $580 million principally as a result of potential resolutions of prior years  tax items with various taxing authorities. The prior years  tax items include
unrecognized tax benefits relating to the timing of recognition of certain gross income, the deductibility of certain expenses or losses, and the attribution of taxable income to a particular jurisdiction or jurisdictions. Of the $580 million of
unrecognized tax benefits, approximately $318 million are temporary differences that, if recognized, would only impact the effective rate due to net interest assessments and state tax rate differentials. With respect to the remaining decrease of
$262 million, it is not possible to quantify the impact that the decrease could have on the effective tax rate and net income due to the inherent complexities and the number of tax years open for examination in multiple
jurisdictions. Resolution of the prior years  items that comprise this remaining amount could have an impact on the effective tax rate and on net income, either favorably (principally as a result of settlements that are less than the
liability for unrecognized tax benefits) or unfavorably (if such settlements exceed the liability for unrecognized tax benefits).      Interest and penalties relating to unrecognized tax benefits are reported in income tax provision. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company recognized approximately $1 million, $60 million and $17 million,
respectively, of interest and penalties. The Company has approximately $282 million and $285 million accrued for the payment of interest and penalties as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.         
    109    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   NOTE 18      EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE      The computations of basic and diluted EPS for the years
ended December 31 were as follows:           

(a)  
  Includes the accelerated preferred dividend accretion of $212 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to the repurchase of $3.39 billion of
preferred shares on June 17, 2009 issued as part of the CPP. Also includes $74 million of preferred dividends paid and $20 million of preferred dividend accretion during 2009.     

(b)  
  For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the dilutive effect of unexercised stock options excludes 71 million, 45 million and 8 million
options, respectively, from the computation of EPS because inclusion of the options would have been anti-dilutive.     

(c)  
  Effective January 1, 2009, guidance for determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities requires that
restricted stock awards be included in the computation of basic and diluted EPS pursuant to the two-class method. Accordingly, the Company has retrospectively adjusted EPS for 2008 and 2007.        The Subordinated Debentures, discussed in Note 10, would affect the EPS computation only in the unlikely event the Company fails to achieve specified
performance measures related to the Company s tangible common equity and consolidated net income. In that circumstance the Company would reflect the additional common shares in the EPS computation.      NOTE 19      DETAILS
OF CERTAIN CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME LINES      The following is a detail of other commissions and fees for the years ended
December 31:           
    The following is a detail of other revenues for the years ended December 31:           
    Other revenues includes insurance premiums earned from cardmember travel and other insurance programs, publishing revenues, revenues arising from contracts with Global Network Services (GNS) partners including royalties and signing fees,
and other miscellaneous revenue and fees.         
    110    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   The following is a detail of marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services for the years ended
December 31:           
    Marketing and promotion expense includes advertising costs, which are expensed in the year in which the advertising first takes place. Cardmember rewards expense includes the costs of rewards programs (including Membership Rewards,
discussed in Note 11). Cardmember services expense includes protection plans and complimentary services provided to cardmembers.      The following
is a detail of other, net expense for the years ended December 31:           

(a)  
  Includes (i) a $135 million benefit recorded in the third quarter of 2009 representing the correction of an error related to the accounting for cumulative
translation adjustments associated with a net investment in foreign subsidiaries (the impact of the incorrect accounting was not material to any of the quarterly or annual periods in which it occurred and resulted in a $60 million overstatement of
pretax income in the second quarter of 2009, a $135 million understatement of pretax income in the fourth quarter of 2008 and minimal amounts for all other periods affected dating back to the third quarter of 2007 when the incorrect accounting
originated), (ii) a $45 million benefit recorded in the third quarter of 2009 resulting from the change in fair value of certain forward exchange contracts, and (iii) lower travel and entertainment and other expenses due to the
Company s reengineering activities. Also includes a $59 million benefit recorded in the second quarter of 2009 representing the correction of an error related to prior periods from the completion of certain account reconciliations. Based on the
items described above, the aggregate impact from the correction of errors in accounting for the 12 months ended December 31, 2009 resulted in a $254 million overstatement of pretax income.        Other, net expense includes general operating expenses, gains (losses) on sale of assets or businesses not classified as discontinued operations, and
litigation and insurance costs or settlements.            NOTE 20      STOCK PLANS      STOCK OPTION AND AWARD PROGRAMS      Under the 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan and
previously under the 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan (the Plans), awards may be granted to employees and other key individuals who perform services for the Company and its participating subsidiaries. These awards may be in the form of stock
options, restricted stock awards or units (RSAs), portfolio grants (PGs), and similar awards designed to meet the requirements of non-U.S. jurisdictions.      For the Company s Plans, there were a total of 37 million, 45 million and 52 million common shares unissued and available for grant as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, as authorized by the Company s Board of Directors and shareholders.      The Company granted stock option awards
to its Chief Executive Officer (CEO) in November 2007 and January 2008 that have performance-based and market-based conditions. These option awards are separately described below and are excluded from the information and tables presented in the
following paragraphs.      A summary of stock option and RSA activity as of December 31, 2009, and changes during the year are
presented below:           
     
    The Company recognizes the cost of employee stock awards granted in exchange for employee services based on the
grant-date fair value of the award, net of expected forfeitures. Those costs are recognized ratably over the vesting period.         
    111    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   STOCK OPTIONS      Each stock option has an exercise price equal to the market price of the Company s common stock on the date of grant and a contractual term of 10 years from the date of grant. Stock options generally
vest 25 percent per year beginning with the first anniversary of the grant date.      The weighted-average remaining
contractual life and the aggregate intrinsic value (the amount by which the fair value of the Company s stock exceeds the exercise price of the option) of the stock options outstanding, exercisable, and vested and expected to vest as of
December 31, 2009 were as follows:           
    The intrinsic value for options exercised during 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $11 million, $79 million and $463 million, respectively (based upon the fair value of the Company s stock price at the date of exercise). Cash received from the
exercise of stock options in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $83 million, $176 million and $852 million, respectively. The tax benefit realized from income tax deductions from stock option exercises, which was recorded in additional paid-in capital, in
2009, 2008 and 2007 was $2 million, $21 million and $158 million, respectively.      The fair value of each option is estimated on
the date of grant using a Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model. The following weighted-average assumptions are used for grants issued in 2009, 2008 and 2007, the majority of which were granted in the beginning of each year:           
    The expected volatility is based on weighted historical and implied volatilities of the Company s common stock price. The expected life of the options is based on historical data.            STOCK OPTIONS WITH PERFORMANCE-BASED AND MARKET-BASED CONDITIONS
     On November 30, 2007 and January 31, 2008, the Company s CEO was granted in the aggregate 2,750,000 of non-qualified stock
option awards with performance-based and market-based conditions. The exercise prices per share are $58.98 and $49.13, respectively. Both awards have a contractual term of 10 years and a vesting period of 6 years.      Performance-based Conditions      Awards for 2,062,500 options have performance-based conditions with an aggregate grant date fair value of approximately $33.8 million using a Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model. Compensation expense for these awards will be
recognized over the vesting period when it is determined it is probable that the performance metrics will be achieved. No compensation expense for these awards was recorded in 2009, 2008 or 2007.      Market-based Conditions      Awards
for 687,500 options have market-based conditions with an aggregate grant date fair value of approximately $10.5 million using a Monte Carlo valuation model. The expected volatility is based on historical returns of the Company s common stock
price and the S P 500 Index. The expected life of the options is based on historical data. Compensation expense for the fair value of these awards is recognized ratably over the vesting period irrespective of the probability of the market metric
being achieved. Total compensation expense recorded in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $2.4 million, $2.4 million and $0.1 million, respectively.      RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS      RSAs are valued based on the stock price on the date of grant and vest generally 25 percent per year,
beginning with the first anniversary of the grant date. RSA holders receive non-forfeitable dividends or dividend equivalents. The total fair value of shares vested during 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $44 million, $134 million and $203 million,
respectively (based upon the Company s stock price at the vesting date).      The weighted-average grant date fair value of
RSAs granted in 2009, 2008 and 2007, is $18.04, $48.29 and $57.89, respectively.      PORTFOLIO GRANTS      In 2009, the Company awarded cash-settled PGs to Executive Officers that earn value based on the Company s financial performance and the Company s
total shareholder return versus the S P 500 Index. Awards in 2009 for all other PG recipients earn value based on the Company s performance against financial and corporate objectives. The 2009 awards vest fifty percent each year over two
one-year performance periods. All PGs awarded in 2008 and 2007 earn value based on the Company s financial performance and the Company s
        
    112    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   
total shareholder return versus the S P 500 Index and cliff vest after a three-year performance period. PG payouts are subject to CBC approval.      The PGs are classified as liabilities and, therefore, the fair value is determined at the date of grant and remeasured quarterly as part of
compensation expense over the performance period. Cash paid upon vesting of PGs was $43 million, $59 million and $55 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      SUMMARY OF STOCK PLAN EXPENSE      The components of the Company s stock-based
compensation expense (net of cancellations) are as follows:           

(a)  
  As of December 31, 2009, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested RSAs and options was $260 million and $74 million, respectively. The
unrecognized cost for RSAs and options will be recognized ratably over the remaining vesting period. The weighted-average remaining vesting period for RSAs and options is 2.44 years and 2.01 years, respectively.     
    NOTE 21      RETIREMENT PLANS      The Company sponsors defined benefit pension plans, defined
contribution plans, and other postretirement benefit plans for its employees. The following table provides a summary of the total cost related to these plans as of December 31:           
    The expenses in the above table are recorded in salaries and employee benefits in the Consolidated Statements of Income.            DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS      The
Company s significant defined benefit pension plans cover certain employees in the United States and United Kingdom. Most employees outside the United States and United Kingdom are covered by local retirement plans, some of which are funded,
while other employees receive payments at the time of retirement or termination under applicable labor laws or agreements. The Company complies with the minimum funding requirements in all countries.      The Company sponsors the U.S. American Express Retirement Plan (the Plan) for eligible employees in the United States. The Plan is a
noncontributory defined benefit plan and a tax-qualified retirement plan subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA). Effective July 1, 2007, the Plan was closed to new entrants and existing participants
no longer accrue future benefits. The Company funds retirement costs through a trust and complies with the applicable minimum funding requirements specified by ERISA, as revised under the Pension Protection Act (PPA), effective October 1, 2008.
The funded status of the Plan on an ERISA basis as of October 1, 2009 (applicable plan year) is 106 percent. The PPA calculation assumptions are specific to ERISA and differ from the calculation of the net funded status for GAAP purposes (see
Net Funded Status as of December 31, 2009 in the table below).      The Plan is a cash balance plan and employees 
accrued benefits are based on notional account balances, which are maintained for each individual. Employees  balances are credited daily with interest at a fixed-rate that is updated each January 1 and is based on the average of the daily
five-year U.S. Treasury Note yields for the previous October 1 through November 30. The interest rate varies from a minimum of 5 percent to a maximum equal to the lesser of (i) 10 percent or (ii) the applicable interest rate set
forth in the Plan. Employees and their beneficiaries have the option to receive annuity payments upon retirement or a lump-sum payout at vested termination, death, disability or retirement.      The Company also sponsors an unfunded non-qualified Supplemental Retirement Plan (the SRP) for employees compensated above a certain level to
supplement their pension benefits that are limited by the Internal Revenue Code. The SRP was also amended as of July 1, 2007, and its terms generally parallel those of the Plan, except that the definition of compensation and payment options
differ.      For each plan, the net funded status is defined by GAAP governing retirement benefits as the difference between the
fair value of plan assets and the respective plan s projected benefit obligation. The projected benefit obligation represents a liability based on the plan participants  service-to-date and their expected future compensation at their
projected retirement date. Changes in the funded status are recorded as unamortized gains and losses, which are recognized in other comprehensive income, net of tax, in the periods in which they occur along with prior service cost.         
    113    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   As of December 31, 2009, the net funded status related to the defined benefit pension plans was
underfunded by $406 million, as shown in the following table:       Net Funded Status            
    The net funded status amounts at December 31, 2009 and 2008 are recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in other liabilities.      Plan Assets and Obligations      The following tables provide a reconciliation of
changes in the fair value of plan assets and projected benefit obligations for all defined benefit pension plans:       Reconciliation of Change
in Fair Value of Plan Assets            
     Reconciliation of Change in Projected Benefit Obligation            
          Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss      The following table provides the amounts comprising accumulated other comprehensive loss, which are not yet recognized as components of net periodic pension benefit cost as of December 31:           
    The estimated portion of the net actuarial loss and net prior service cost that is expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic pension benefit cost in 2010 is $22 million and nil, respectively.      The following table lists the amounts recognized in other comprehensive loss in 2009:           

(Millions)    
      
   2009   

Net actuarial loss:   

Reclassified to earnings from equity (a)    
      
   $   
   (29   
   )     
 
    Losses in current year (b)    

34   

Net actuarial loss, pretax   
      
   $   
   5   

(a)  
  Amortization of actuarial losses and recognition of losses related to lump sum settlements.     

(b)  
  Deferral of actuarial losses and curtailment gains.        Benefit Obligations      The accumulated benefit obligation in a defined benefit pension plan is the present value of
benefits earned to date by plan participants computed based on current compensation levels as contrasted to the projected benefit obligation, which is the present value of benefits earned to date by plan participants based on their expected future
compensation at their projected retirement date.      The accumulated and projected benefit obligations for all defined benefit pension plans are
as follows:           
    The accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligation that exceeds the fair value of plan assets are as follows:           
       
    114    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   The projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for pension plans with projected benefit
obligation that exceeds the fair value of plan assets are as follows:           
    Net Periodic Pension Benefit Cost      The components of the net periodic pension benefit cost for all defined benefit
pension plans as of December 31 are as follows:           

(a)  
  Current value of benefits earned by employees during the period.     

(b)  
  Estimated interest incurred on the outstanding projected benefit obligation during the period.     

(c)  
  Expected return on the market related value of plan assets.     

(d)  
  Costs that result from plan amendments, which are amortized over the expected future service period of the employees impacted.     

(e)  
  Amortization of the accumulated losses which exceed 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market related value of plan assets.

(f)  
  Recognition of the actuarial losses resulting from lump sum settlements of the benefit obligation.     

(g)  
  Gains resulting from a reduction in the benefit obligation due to a decrease in the expected years of future service of current plan participants.
       Assumptions      The weighted-average assumptions used to determine defined benefit pension obligations were:           
          The weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic pension benefit costs were:           
    The Company assumes a long-term rate of return on assets on a weighted-average basis. In developing this assumption, management evaluates historical returns on plan assets as well as benchmark information including projections of asset
class returns and long-term inflation.      The discount rate assumptions for the Company s significant defined benefit plans
are determined using a model consisting of bond portfolios that match the cash flows of the plan s projected benefit payments based on the plan participants  service to date and their expected future compensation. Use of the rate produced
by this model generates a projected benefit obligation that equals the current market value of a portfolio of high-quality zero-coupon bonds whose maturity dates and amounts match the timing and amount of expected future benefit payments.
     Asset Allocation and Fair Value      The Benefit Plans Investment Committee (BPIC) is appointed by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Company s Board of Directors and has the responsibility of reviewing and approving the
investment policies related to plan assets for the Company s defined benefit pension plans; evaluating the performance of the investments in accordance with the investment policy; reviewing the investment objectives, risk, characteristics,
expenses and historical performance; and selecting and evaluating the investment managers. The BPIC typically meets quarterly to review the performance of the various investment managers and service providers as well as other investment related
matters. The Company s significant defined benefit pension plans have investment policies, which prescribe targets for the amount of assets that can be invested in a security class in order to mitigate the detrimental impact of adverse or
unexpected results with respect to any individual security class on the overall portfolio. The portfolios are diversified by asset type, risk characteristics and concentration of investments.      Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted new GAAP fair value disclosure requirements for defined benefit pension plan assets (the
new expanded disclosures are not applicable for plan assets at December 31, 2008 when the asset allocation was 48 percent equity securities, 43 percent fixed income securities, and 9 percent other investments). Refer to Note 3 for a discussion
related to valuation techniques used to measure fair value, including a description of the three-level fair value hierarchy of inputs.         
    115    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   The following table summarizes the target allocation and categorization of all defined benefit pension
plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis by GAAP s valuation hierarchy as of December 31, 2009.           

(a)  
  A significant portion of international investments are in U.K. companies and U.K. government and agency securities.     

(b)  
  Measured at reported net asset value in accordance with GAAP adopted in 2009.        The fair value measurement of all defined benefit pension plan assets using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) changed during 2009 due to the following:           
       
    116    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   Benefit Payments      The Company s defined benefit pension plans expect to make benefit payments to retirees as follows:           
    In addition, the Company expects to contribute $64 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2010.      DEFINED
CONTRIBUTION RETIREMENT PLANS      The Company sponsors defined contribution retirement plans, the principal plan being the Retirement Savings Plan
(RSP), a 401(k) savings plan with a profit sharing component. The RSP is a tax-qualified retirement plan subject to ERISA and covers most employees in the U. S. Under the terms of the RSP, employees have the option of investing up to 10 percent of
their contributions in the American Express Company Stock Fund, which invests primarily in the Company s common stock, through accumulated payroll deductions. Employees are restricted from transferring balances into this fund if the balance has
reached 10 percent of the employee s total account balance. The RSP held 13 million shares of American Express Common Stock at both December 31, 2009 and 2008, beneficially for employees. Effective July 1, 2007, the Company
matches employee contributions to the plan up to a maximum of 5 percent of total pay. Additional annual conversion contributions of up to 8 percent of total pay are provided into the RSP for eligible employees who were hired before April 1,
2007. The Company also sponsors an RSP SRP, which is an unfunded non-qualified plan for employees whose RSP benefits are limited by the Internal Revenue Code and its terms generally parallel those of the RSP, except that the definition of
compensation and payment options differ.      The total expense for all defined contribution retirement plans globally was $118
million, $211 million and $173 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in defined contribution expense in 2009 primarily reflects the Company s temporary suspension of the employer match conversion contributions (reinstated
prospectively in January 2010).      OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS      The Company sponsors unfunded other postretirement benefit plans that provide health care and life insurance to certain retired U.S. employees.   
        Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss      The following table provides the amounts comprising accumulated other comprehensive loss which are not yet recognized as components of net periodic benefit
cost as of December 31:           
    The estimated portion of the net actuarial loss above that is expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost in 2010 is $2 million.      The following table lists the amounts recognized in other comprehensive loss in 2009:           

(Millions)    
      
   2009   

Net actuarial loss:   

Reclassified to earnings from equity   
      
   $   
   (2   
   )     
 
    Losses in current year   

15   

Net actuarial loss   

13   

Net prior service cost:   

Reclassified to earnings from equity   

2   

Net prior service cost   

2   

Total, pretax   
      
   $   
   15   
             Benefit Obligations      The projected benefit obligation represents a liability based upon estimated future medical and
other benefits to be provided to retirees.      The following table provides a reconciliation of the changes in the projected benefit obligation:
      Reconciliation of Change in Projected Benefit Obligation            
    The plans are unfunded and the obligations as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 are recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in other liabilities.         
    117    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   Net Periodic Benefit Cost      GAAP provides for the delayed recognition of the net actuarial loss and the net prior service credit remaining in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).      The components of the net periodic benefit cost for all other postretirement benefit plans as of December 31 are as follows:       
    ASSUMPTIONS      The weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations were:       
    The weighted-average discount rate used to determine net periodic benefit cost was 6.0 percent, 6.1 percent and 5.7 percent in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      The discount rate assumption for the Company s unfunded other postretirement benefit plans is determined by using a model consisting of bond portfolios that match the cash flows of the plan s
projected benefit payments. Use of the rate produced by this model generates a projected benefit obligation that equals the current market value of a portfolio of high-quality zero-coupon bonds whose maturity dates and amounts match the timing and
amount of expected future benefit payments.      A one percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following
effects:       
          Benefit Payments      The
Company s other postretirement benefit plans expect to make benefit payments as follows:           
    In addition, the Company expects to contribute $24 million to its other postretirement benefit plans in 2010.      NOTE 22      SIGNIFICANT CREDIT CONCENTRATIONS      Concentrations of credit risk exist when changes in economic, industry or geographic factors similarly affect groups of counterparties whose aggregate credit exposure is material in relation to American
Express  total credit exposure. The Company s customers operate in diverse industries, economic sectors and geographic regions.      The
following table details the Company s maximum credit exposure by category, including the credit exposure associated with derivative financial instruments, as of December 31:       

(a)  
  Individuals primarily include cardmember loans and receivables.     

(b)  
  Financial institutions primarily include debt obligations of banks, broker-dealers, insurance companies and savings and loan associations.     

(c)  
  U.S. Government and agencies represent debt obligations of the U.S. Government and its agencies, states and municipalities, and government sponsored entities.

(d)  
  All other primarily includes cardmember receivables from other corporate institutions.     

(e)  
  Certain distinctions between categories require management judgment.     

(f)  
  Because charge card products have no preset spending limit, the associated credit limit on cardmember receivables is not quantifiable. Therefore, the quantified unused
line-of-credit amounts only include the approximate credit line available on cardmember loans (including both for on-balance sheet loans and loans previously securitized).           
    118    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 As of December 31, 2009, the Company s most significant concentration of credit risk was with individuals, including cardmember
receivables and loans. These amounts are generally advanced on an unsecured basis. However, the Company reviews each potential customer s credit application and evaluates the applicant s financial history and ability and willingness to
repay. The Company also considers credit performance by customer tenure, industry, and geographic location in managing credit exposure. The following table details the Company s cardmember loans and receivables exposure (including unused
lines-of-credit on cardmember loans) in the United States and International, as of December 31:           

(a)  
  Represents cardmember loans to individuals as well as receivables from individuals and corporate institutions as discussed in footnotes (a) and (d) from the
previous table.        EXPOSURE TO AIRLINE INDUSTRY      The Company has multiple co-brand relationships and rewards partners, of which airlines are one of the most important and valuable. The Company s largest airline co-brand is Delta Air Lines (Delta)
and this relationship includes exclusive co-brand credit card partnerships and other arrangements, including Membership Rewards, merchant acceptance and travel. American Express  Delta SkyMiles Credit Card co-brand portfolio accounts for
approximately 5 percent of the Company s worldwide billed business and less than 15 percent of worldwide cardmember lending receivables. Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of prepaid miles acquired
from Delta.      Over the last couple of years, there were a significant number of airline bankruptcies and liquidations, driven in
part by volatile fuel costs and weakening economies around the world. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant revenue declines when a particular airline scales back or ceases operations due to a bankruptcy or other financial
challenges because volumes generated by that airline are typically shifted to other participants in the industry that accept the Company s card products. The Company s exposure to business and credit risk in the airline industry is
primarily through business arrangements where the Company has remitted payment to the airline for a cardmember purchase of tickets that have not yet been used or  flown . The Company mitigates this risk by delaying payment to the airlines
with deteriorating financial situations, thereby increasing cash withheld to protect the Company in the event the airline is liquidated. To date, the Company has not experienced significant losses from airlines that have ceased operations.
     NOTE 23      REGULATORY MATTERS AND CAPITAL ADEQUACY      The Company is regulated by the Federal Reserve and is subject to the Federal
Reserve s requirements for risk-based capital and leverage ratios. The Company s two U.S. Bank operating subsidiaries, Centurion Bank and FSB (collectively, the  Banks ), are subject to similar regulatory capital requirements of
the FDIC and the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS).      The Federal Reserve s guidelines for capital adequacy define two
categories of risk-based capital: Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital (as defined in the regulations). Under the risk-based capital guidelines of the Federal Reserve, the Company is required to maintain minimum ratios of Tier 1 and Total (Tier 1 plus Tier 2)
capital to risk weighted assets, as well as a minimum leverage ratio (Tier 1 capital to average adjusted on-balance sheet assets).      Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional, discretionary actions by regulators, that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the Company s and the Banks 
financial statements.      As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company and its Banks were well-capitalized and met all
capital requirements to which each was subject. Management is not aware of any events subsequent to December 31, 2009 that would materially, adversely affect the Company s and the Banks  2009 capital ratios, including the impact of
the adoption of changes in GAAP governing the accounting for transfers of financial assets effective January 1, 2010, as discussed in Note 1. While the adoption of these new accounting standards is expected to result in a reduction of the
Company s capital ratios, such ratios are expected to be above applicable well-capitalized levels.         
    119    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 The following table presents the regulatory capital ratios for the Company and the Banks at December 31, 2009 and 2008:       

(a)  
  FSB leverage ratio represents Tier 1 core capital ratio, calculated similarly to Tier 1 leverage ratio.     

(b)  
  Since January 2009, FSB has committed to maintain a Total capital ratio of no less than 15 percent. During 2009, enhancements were made to the American Express Credit
Account Master Trust used to securitize credit card receivables issued by both the FSB and Centurion Bank. As a result of these enhancements, the Banks began holding capital against their off balance sheet trust assets. The Company infused $1.4
billion and $475 million of additional capital into FSB and Centurion Bank, respectively, during 2009 and in connection with the foregoing increased capital commitment for FSB and the impact of the trust enhancements for both FSB and Centurion Bank.

(c)  
  As defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), OTS and FDIC.     

(d)  
  Represents requirements for banking subsidiaries to be considered  well capitalized  pursuant to regulations issued under the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement Act. There is no  well capitalized  definition for the Tier 1 leverage ratio for a bank holding company.            RESTRICTED NET ASSETS OF SUBSIDIARIES      Certain of the Company s subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the transfer of net assets under debt agreements and regulatory requirements. These restrictions have not had any effect on the Company s shareholder dividend
policy and management does not anticipate any impact in the future. Procedures exist to transfer net assets between the Company and its subsidiaries, while ensuring compliance with the various contractual and regulatory constraints. At
December 31, 2009, the aggregate amount of net assets of subsidiaries that are restricted to be transferred to American Express  Parent Company (Parent Company) was approximately $9.5 billion.      BANK HOLDING COMPANY DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS      The Company is limited in its ability to pay dividends by its regulators who could prohibit a dividend that would be considered an unsafe or unsound banking practice. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies
should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of net income attributable to common shareholders over the past year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization s current and expected future capital
needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. Moreover, bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that undermine a company s ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries.      BANKS  DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS      In the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, Centurion Bank paid dividends from retained earnings to its parent of $650 million and $700 million, respectively, which were eliminated in the Company s consolidation. No dividends
were paid in 2009. In the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, FSB paid dividends from retained earnings to its parent of $150 million and $150 million, respectively, which were eliminated in the Company s consolidation. No dividends
were paid in 2009. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Banks could pay, in the aggregate, $1.3 billion and $0.6 billion, respectively, in dividends to their bank holding companies without the prior approval of their respective banking
regulators. In determining the dividends, the Banks must also consider its effect on applicable risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements, as well as policy statements of the federal regulatory agencies.               
    120    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 NOTE 24      COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES      The Company and its subsidiaries are involved in a number of legal and arbitration proceedings,
including class actions, concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of their respective business activities. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to each of these actions and intends to defend them vigorously. In the
course of its business, the Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to governmental examinations, information gathering requests, subpoenas, inquiries, and investigations. The Company believes it is not a party to, nor are any of its
properties the subject of, any pending legal, arbitration, regulatory, tax or investigative proceedings that would have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial condition or liquidity. However, it is possible that the
outcome of any such proceedings could have a material impact on results of operations in any particular reporting period as the proceedings are resolved.      VISA AND MASTERCARD SETTLEMENTS      As previously disclosed the Company reached
settlement agreements with Visa and MasterCard. Under the terms of the settlement agreements, the Company will receive aggregate maximum payments of $4.05 billion. The settlement with Visa comprised an initial payment of $1.13 billion ($700 million
after-tax) that was recorded as a gain in 2007. Having met quarterly performance criteria, the Company recognized $280 million ($172 million after-tax) from Visa in 2009 and 2008, and $600 million ($372 million after-tax) and $300 million ($186
million after-tax) from MasterCard in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The remaining Visa and MasterCard quarterly payments, subject to the Company achieving certain quarterly performance criteria, continue through the fourth and second quarters of
2011, respectively, and are included in other, net expenses within the Corporate   Other segment.      The Company also
has contingent obligations to make payments under contractual agreements entered into as part of the ongoing operation of the Company s business, primarily with co-brand partners. The contingent obligations under such arrangements were
approximately $6.0 billion as of December 31, 2009.      The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under
noncancelable and cancelable agreements. The total rental expense amounted to $362 million in 2009 including lease termination penalties of $36 million. Rent expense was $337 million and $300 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of
December 31, 2009, the minimum aggregate rental commitment under all noncancelable operating leases (net of subleases of $5 million) was:           
    As of December 31, 2009, the Company s future minimum lease payments under capital leases or other similar arrangements is approximately $12 million per annum from 2010 through 2013, $14 million in 2014 and $40 million thereafter.
Refer to Note 22 for a discussion of the Company s customer commitments, related to unused lines-of-credit, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.         
    121    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   NOTE 25      REPORTABLE OPERATING SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC OPERATIONS      REPORTABLE OPERATING SEGMENTS      The Company is a leading global payments and travel company that is principally engaged in
businesses comprising four reportable operating segments: U.S. Card Services (USCS), International Card Services (ICS), Global Commercial Services (GCS) and Global Network   Merchant Services (GNMS).      The Company considers a combination of factors when evaluating the composition of its reportable operating segments, including the results
reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, economic characteristics, products and services offered, classes of customers, product distribution channels, geographic considerations (primarily U.S. versus international), and regulatory environment
considerations. Based on these factors, the Company has the following four reportable operating segments:   

USCS issues a wide range of card products and services to consumers and small businesses in the United States, and provides consumer travel services to
cardmembers and other consumers.          

ICS issues proprietary consumer and small business cards outside the United States.          

GCS offers global corporate payment and travel-related products and services to large and mid-sized companies.          

GNMS segment operates a global general-purpose charge and credit card network, which includes both proprietary cards and cards issued under network
partnership agreements. It also manages merchant services globally, which includes signing merchants to accept cards as well as processing and settling card transactions for those merchants. This segment also offers merchants point-of-sale products,
servicing and settlements and marketing programs.         Corporate functions and auxiliary businesses, including the Company s
publishing business, the Global Prepaid business, as well as other company operations are included in Corporate   Other.         
    122    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   The following table presents certain selected financial information as of December 31, 2009, 2008
and 2007 and for each of the years then ended.           

(a)  
  Corporate   Other includes adjustments and eliminations for intersegment activity.     

(b)  
  The Company changed the manner by which it assesses the performance of its reportable operating segments to exclude the impact of its excess liquidity funding levels.
Accordingly, beginning in 2009, the debt and cash and investment balances associated with the Company s excess liquidity funding and the related net negative interest spread are no longer included within the reportable operating segment results
(primarily USCS and GCS segments) and are reported in the Corporate   Other segment. The segment results for the prior years have not been revised for this change. The impact on segment income from continuing operations was an increase to
USCS, ICS, and GCS of $101 million, $1 million and $41 million, respectively, and a decrease to Corporate   Other of $143 million for the year ending December 31, 2009. The impact on reportable operating segment asset and liability
balances for this change was a decrease to USCS and GCS of $19 billion and $7 billion, respectively, and an increase to Corporate   Other of $26 billion as of December 31, 2009.           
    123    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
  
 Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense      The Company allocates discount revenue and certain other revenues among segments using a transfer pricing methodology. Segments earn discount revenue based on the volume of merchant business generated by
cardmembers. Within the USCS, ICS and GCS segments, discount revenue reflects the issuer component of the overall discount rate; within the GNMS segment, discount revenue reflects the network and merchant component of the overall discount rate.
Total interest income and net card fees are directly attributable to the segment in which they are reported.      Provisions for
Losses      The provisions for losses are directly attributable to the segment in which they are reported.      Expenses      Marketing, promotion,
rewards and cardmember services expenses are reflected in each segment based on actual expenses incurred, with the exception of brand advertising, which is reflected in the GNMS segment. Rewards and cardmember services expenses are reflected in each
segment based on actual expenses incurred within each segment. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses reflect expenses, such as professional services, occupancy and equipment, and communications, incurred directly within each
segment. In addition, expenses related to the Company s support services, such as technology costs, are allocated to each segment based on support service activities directly attributable to the segment. Other overhead expenses, such as staff
group support functions, are allocated from Corporate   Other to the other segments based on each segment s relative level of pretax income, with the exception of certain fourth quarter 2008 severance and other related charges of $133
million from the Company s fourth quarter restructuring initiatives for staff group support functions. This presentation is consistent with how such charges were reported internally. See further discussion in Note 16 regarding this corporate
initiative. Financing requirements are managed on a consolidated basis. Funding costs are allocated based on segment funding requirements.      Capital      Each business segment is allocated capital based on established business model operating requirements, risk
measures, and regulatory capital requirements. Business model operating requirements include capital needed to support operations and specific balance sheet items. The risk measures include considerations for credit, market, and operational risk.
     Income Taxes      Income tax provision (benefit) is allocated to each business segment based on the effective tax rates applicable to various businesses that make up the segment.          GEOGRAPHIC OPERATIONS      The following table presents the Company s total revenues net of interest expense and pretax income in different geographic regions:               
    The data in the above table is, in part, based upon internal allocations, which necessarily involve management s judgment.         
    124    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   NOTE 26      PARENT COMPANY      Parent Company   Condensed Statements of
Income           
          Parent Company   Condensed Balance Sheets           
    SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE      The Parent Company guarantees up to $104 million of indebtedness under lines of credit that
subsidiaries have with various banks. As of December 31, 2009, $17 million in lines of credit have been drawn down.         
    125    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   Parent Company   Condensed Statements of Cash Flows           
       
    126    

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         
   NOTE 27      QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)       

(a)  
  Diluted EPS from discontinued operations was greater than basic EPS from discontinued operations due to the impact of rounded fractional amounts.

(b)  
  The results for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 include a $180 million benefit related to (i) the accounting for a net investment in foreign subsidiaries
and (ii) the change in the fair value of certain forward exchange contracts. The results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 include a $59 million benefit related to the completion of certain account reconciliations. Refer to
Note 19 for further discussion of these items.     
       
    127    

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
      AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY         

(a)  
  In 2007, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its international banking subsidiary, AEB, and its subsidiary that issues investment certificates to AEB s
customers, AEIDC, to Standard Chartered subject to certain regulatory approvals. The results, assets, and liabilities of AEB (except for certain components of the business which were not sold) are presented as discontinued operations. Additionally,
the spin-off of Ameriprise and certain dispositions were completed in 2006 and 2005, and the results of these operations are presented as discontinued operations. Refer to Note 2 for additional information on discontinued operations.

(b)  
  Return on average equity is calculated by dividing one year period of net income by one year average of total shareholders  equity.     

(c)  
  Effective January 1, 2009, guidance for determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities requires that
restricted stock awards be included in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method. Accordingly, the Company has retrospectively adjusted EPS for all prior periods presented. Refer to Note 18 to the
Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.     

(d)  
  The market price per share beginning with the fourth quarter of 2005 reflects the spin-off of Ameriprise as of September 30, 2005. The opening share price on the
first trading day after the spin-off was $50.75.     

(e)  
  Amounts include employees from discontinued operations.           
    128    

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 4
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

Subsidiaries of the Company 

Exhibit 21        SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT       Unless otherwise
indicated, all of the voting securities of these subsidiaries are directly or indirectly owned by the registrant. Where the name of the subsidiary is indented, the voting securities of such subsidiary are owned directly by the company under which
its name is indented.       

Name    
      
     Country Name     
 
    American Express Company   
      
  (USA) New York   

56th Street AXP Campus LLC   
      
  (USA) Arizona   

American Express Austria Bank GmbH   
      
  Austria   

American Express Bank LLC   
      
  Russian Federation   

American Express Bank Ltd. S.A.   
      
  Argentina   

American Express Banking Corp.   
      
  (USA) New York   

American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.   
      
  (USA) New York   

American Express Bank (Mexico) S.A Institucion de Banca Multiple   
      
  Mexico   

American Express Bank Services, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   

American Express Bank FSB   
      
  United States    

American Express Receivables Financing Corporation IV LLC   
      
  (USA) Delaware   

American Express Business Loan Corporation   
      
  (USA) Utah   

American Express Centurion Bank   
      
  (USA) Utah   

American Express Receivables Financing Corporation III LLC   
      
  (USA) Delaware   

American Express Company (Mexico) S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   

American Express Insurance Services, Agente de Seguros, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   

American Express Servicios Profesionales, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   

American Express Credit Corporation   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

American Express Capital Australia   
      
  Australia   

American Express Credit Mexico, LLC   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

Fideicomiso Empresarial American Express No.232033   
      
  Mexico   

American Express Euro Funding Limited Partnership   
      
  United Kingdom   

American Express Overseas Credit Corporation Limited   
      
  Jersey   

AEOCC Management Company Limited   
      
  Jersey   

American Express Overseas Credit Corporation N.V.   
      
  Netherlands Antilles   

AE Hungary Holdings Limited Liability Company   
      
  Hungary   

American Express Canada Credit Corporation   
      
  Canada   

American Express Canada Finance Limited   
      
  Canada   

American Express Sterling Funding Limited Partnership   
      
  United Kingdom   

American Express Funding (Luxembourg) S.a.r.l   
      
  Luxembourg   

Credco Receivables Corp.   
      
  (USA) Delaware    
       
   1   

Name    
      
     Country Name     

American Express Dutch Capital, LLC   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

American Express Europe Limited   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

Sceptre Nominees Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   

American Express Global Financial Services, Inc.   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

American Express Holdings Netherlands CV   
      
  Netherlands   

American Express Insurance Agency of Puerto Rico, Inc.   
      
  Puerto Rico   

American Express International (NZ), Inc.   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

American Express Limited   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

Alpha Card SCRL   
      
  Belgium   

Alpha Card Merchant Services SCRL   
      
  Belgium   

BCC Corporate NV/SA   
      
  Belgium   

American Express (Malaysia) SDN. BHD.   
      
  Malaysia   

American Express (Thai) Co. Ltd   
      
  Thailand   

American Express Brasil Assessoria Empresarial Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   

American Express International (B) SDN.BHD   
      
  Brunei Darussalam   

American Express International Holdings, LLC   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

American Express Argentina S.A.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    American Express Holdings (France) SAS   
      
  France   

American Express France SAS   
      
  France   

American Express Carte France SA   
      
  France   

American Express Change SAS   
      
  France   

American Express Paris SAS   
      
  France   

American Express Services SA   
      
  France   

American Express Voyages SAS   
      
  France   

American Express Management   
      
  France   

American Express France Finance SNC   
      
  France   

South Pacific Credit Card Limited   
      
  New Zealand   

Centurion Finance Limited   
      
  New Zealand   

American Express International, Inc.   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

AE Exposure Management Limited   
      
  Jersey   

American Express (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   

American Express Asia Network Consulting (Beijing) Limited Company   
      
  China   

American Express Australia Limited   
      
  Australia   

American Express Company AS   
      
  Norway   

American Express Corporate Travel SA   
      
  Belgium   

American Express Denmark A/S   
      
  Denmark   

American Express Group Services Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
       
   2   

Name    
      
     Country Name     

American Express Holding AB   
      
  Sweden   

American Express Business Travel A/S   
      
  Denmark   

American Express Business Travel AB   
      
  Sweden   

American Express Business Travel AS   
      
  Norway   

Forsakringsaktiebolaget Viator   
      
  Sweden   

American Express Holdings Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   

American Express Insurance Services Europe Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   

American Express Services Europe Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   

American Express Hungary Financial Services Closed Company Limited by Shares   
      
  Hungary   

American Express Hungary Travel Services Ltd.   
      
  Hungary   

American Express International (Taiwan), Inc.   
      
  Taiwan, Province of China   

American Express International SA   
      
  Greece   

Key Tours SA   
      
  Greece   

American Express Japan Co., Ltd   
      
  Japan   

American Express Locazioni Finanziarie s.r.l   
      
  Italy   

American Express Payment Services Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   

American Express Poland S.A.   
      
  Poland   

American Express Reiseb ro GmbH   
      
  Austria   

American Express Services India Limited   
      
  India   

American Express spol. s.r.o.   
      
  Czech Republic   

American Express Swiss Holdings GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   

Swisscard AECS AG   
      
  Switzerland   

American Express Travel (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   

American Express Travel Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   

CITS American Express Air Services Ltd   
      
  China   

CITS American Express Southern Air Services Ltd   
      
  China   

CITS American Express Travel Services Ltd   
      
  China   

Farrington American Express Travel Services Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   

American Express Travel Holdings (M) Company SDN. BHD.   
      
  Malaysia   

Mayflower American Express Travel Services SDN. BHD.   
      
  Malaysia   

American Express Travel Services Vostok, LLC   
      
  Russian Federation   

ZAO  American Express International Services    
      
  Russian Federation   

American Express Wholesale Currency Services Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   

Amex Broker Assicurativo s.r.l.   
      
  Italy   

Amex General Insurance Agency, Inc.   
      
  Taiwan, Province of China   
       
   3   

Name    
      
     Country Name     

Amex Life Insurance Marketing, Inc.   
      
  Taiwan, Province of China   

Amex Travel Holding (Japan) Ltd.   
      
  Japan   

American Express Nippon Travel Agency, Inc.   
      
  Japan   

Interactive Transaction Solutions Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   

Interactive Transactions Solutions SAS   
      
  France   

Sociedad Internacional de Servicios de Panama S.A.   
      
  Panama   

TransUnion Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   

American Express Service (Thailand) Company Limited   
      
  Thailand   

TRS Card International, Inc.   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

American Express de Espana, S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)   
      
  Spain   

American Express E.F.C., S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)   
      
  Spain   

American Express Foreign Exchange, S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)   
      
  Spain   

American Express Viajes, S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)   
      
  Spain   

American Express Barcelo Viajes SL   
      
  Spain   

Amex Asesores de Seguros, S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)   
      
  Spain   

American Express Marketing   Development Corp.   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

American Express Prepaid Card Management Corporation   
      
  (USA) Arizona    

American Express Publishing Corporation   
      
  (USA) New York   

American Express Receivables Financing Corporation II   
      
  (USA) Delaware   

American Express Receivables Financing Corporation V LLC   
      
  (USA) Delaware   

Amex (Middle East) B.S.C. (c)   
      
  Bahrain   

Amex Al Omania LLC   
      
  Oman   

Amex Egypt LLC   
      
  Egypt   

ASAL (American Express Saudi Arabia Ltd)   
      
  Bahrain   

Amex Bank of Canada   
      
  Canada   

Amex Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   

Amex Card Services Company   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

Asesor as e Inversiones American Express Chile Limitada   
      
  Chile   

Amex Inmobiliaria Limitada   
      
  Chile   

Bansamex, S.A.   
      
  Spain   

Cardmember Financial Services Limited   
      
  Jersey   

Cavendish Holdings, Inc.   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

Drillamex, Inc.   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

FRC West Property. LLC   
      
  (USA) Arizona   
       
   4   

Name    
      
     Country Name     

Harbor Payments, Inc.   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

Fiware Holdings, Inc.   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

Harbor Payments Corporation   
      
  (USA) Georgia   

Southern Africa Travellers Cheque Company (Pty) Ltd   
      
  South Africa   

Swiss Bankers Prepaid Services AG   
      
  Switzerland   

Travel Impressions, Ltd.   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

Travellers Cheque Associates Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   

AMEX Assurance Company   
      
  (USA) Illinois   

Amexco Insurance Company   
      
  (USA) Vermont   

National Express Company, Inc.   
      
  (USA) New York   

The Balcor Company Holdings, Inc.   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

The Balcor Company   
      
  (USA) Delaware    

Rexport, Inc.   
      
  (USA) Delaware           
   5   

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

Exhibit 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-8 No. 2-46918, No. 2-59230, No. 2-64285, No. 2-73954, No. 2-89680, No. 33-01771, No. 33-02980, No. 33-28721,
No. 33-33552, No. 33-36442, No. 33-48629, No. 33-62124, No. 33-65008, No. 33-53801, No. 333-12683, No. 333-41779, No. 333-52699, No. 333-73111, No. 333-38238, No. 333-98479; and
No. 333-142710; Form S-3 No. 2-89469, No. 33-43268, No. 33-50997, No. 333-32525, No. 333-45445, No. 333-47085, No. 333-55761, No. 333-51828, No. 333-113768, No. 333-117835,
No. 333-138032 and 333-162791) of American Express Company of our report dated February 25, 2010, relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the 2009
Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.       

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF KENNETH I. CHENAULT, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Certification of Kenneth I. Chenault, Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.1         CERTIFICATION        I, Kenneth I. Chenault, certify that:
     1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of American Express Company;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;      (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and         
   -1-   

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date: February 25, 2010  

/s/ Kenneth I. Chenault    

Kenneth I. Chenault   

Chief Executive Officer          
   -2-   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF DANIEL T. HENRY, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Certification of Daniel T. Henry, Chief Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.2         CERTIFICATION        I, Daniel T. Henry, certify
that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of American Express Company;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;      (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and         
   -1-   

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date: February 25, 2010  

/s/ Daniel T. Henry    

Daniel T. Henry   

Chief Financial Officer          
   -2-   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO AND CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT

Certification of CEO and CFO Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 

EXHIBIT 32.1        Certification Pursuant to        18 U.S.C.
Section 1350,        as Adopted Pursuant to        Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       In connection
with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of American Express Company (the  Company ) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), Kenneth I.
Chenault, as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and Daniel T. Henry, as Chief Financial Officer of the Company, each hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, that:      (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934; and      (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition
and results of operations of the Company.       

/s/ Kenneth I. Chenault    
 
  Name:  
     
  Kenneth I. Chenault   
 
  Title:  
     
  Chief Executive Officer   
 
  Date:  
     
  February 25, 2010   

/s/ Daniel T. Henry    
 
  Name:  
     
  Daniel T. Henry   
 
  Title:  
     
  Chief Financial Officer   
 
  Date:  
     
  February 25, 2010       The foregoing certification is
being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and is not being  filed  as part of the Form 10-K or as a separate disclosure document for purposes
of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), or otherwise subject to liability under that section. This certification shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act except to the extent that this Exhibit 32.1 is expressly and specifically incorporated by reference in any such filing.      A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its
staff upon request.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 axp-20091231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 axp-20091231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 axp-20091231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 12
 axp-20091231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 axp-20091231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 axp-20091231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

