<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110228_10-K_edgar_data_4962_0000950123-11-019072_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>36969563</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1091307</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>7275421</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2536436</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>9097249</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>16021011</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>158</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>18</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-11-019072.hdr.sgml : 20110228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110225213838
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-11-019072
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		23
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AMERICAN EXPRESS CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000004962
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FINANCE SERVICES [6199]
		IRS NUMBER:				134922250
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07657
		FILM NUMBER:		11642929

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		200 VESEY STREET
		STREET 2:		50TH FLOOR
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10285
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2126402000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		200 VESEY STREET
		STREET 2:		50TH FLOOR
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10285

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Ww2RY0dLqvVf0bV4dN8XkYGm3SJ7qYkx+8oOEAoORv4+WYTEcedkPteTAesWrkEE
 D8085CRN8v7x11Kq69ByGg==

 0000950123-11-019072.txt : 20110228

10-K
 1
 y87970e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
      Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission File
     No. 1-7657  

American Express
    Company  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

New York 
       (State or other jurisdiction
    of 
    incorporation or organization)  

13-4922250 
       (I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)  

World Financial Center 
    200 Vesey Street 
    New York, New York 
       (Address of principal
    executive offices)  

10285 
       (Zip
    Code)   

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:
     (212) 640-2000  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common Shares (par value $0.20 per Share) 

New York Stock Exchange 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject
    to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of
     Regulation S-T 
    (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding
    12 months (or for shorter period that the registrant was
    required to submit and post such
    files).  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act.

Large
    accelerated
    filer    
      
           Accelerated
    filer    

Non-accelerated
    filer    
      
           Smaller
    reporting
    company    

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act).  Yes         No   

As of June 30, 2010, the aggregate market value of the
    registrant s voting shares held by non-affiliates of the
    registrant was approximately $47.6 billion based on the
    closing sale price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.

As of February 22, 2011, there were
    1,202,409,106 common shares of the registrant outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Parts I, II and IV: Portions of Registrant s 2010
    Annual Report to Shareholders.

Part III: Portions of Registrant s Proxy Statement to
    be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in
    connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
    May 2, 2011.

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

Form 10-K   

Item Number  

i

Table of Contents   

PART I*  

ITEM 1.    

BUSINESS  

INTRODUCTION  

Overview  

American Express Company, together with its consolidated
    subsidiaries ( American Express,  the
     Company,   we,   us  or
     our ), is a global service company that provides
    customers with access to products, insights and experiences that
    enrich lives and build business success. Our principal products
    and services are charge and credit payment card products and
    travel-related services offered to consumers and businesses
    around the world. We were founded in 1850 as a joint stock
    association. We were incorporated in 1965 as a New York
    corporation. American Express Company and its principal
    operating subsidiary, American Express Travel Related Services
    Company, Inc. ( TRS ), are bank holding companies
    under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the  BHC
    Act ), subject to the supervision and examination by the
    Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the
     Federal Reserve ).

Our headquarters are located in New York, New York in lower
    Manhattan. We also have offices in other locations in North
    America, as well as throughout the world.

We are principally engaged in businesses comprising four
    reportable operating segments: U.S. Card Services,
    International Card Services, Global Commercial Services, and
    Global Network   Merchant Services, all of which we
    describe below. Corporate functions and auxiliary businesses,
    including the Company s Enterprise Growth Group, publishing
    business, as well as other company operations, are included in
    Corporate   Other.

Securities
    Exchange Act Reports and Additional Information  

We maintain an Investor Relations Web site on the Internet at
     http://ir.americanexpress.com. 
    We make available free of charge, on or through this Web site,
    our annual, quarterly and current reports and any amendments to
    those reports as soon as reasonably practicable following the
    time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the
    Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). To access
    these materials, just click on the  SEC Filings  link
    under the caption  Financial Information/Filings  on
    our Investor Relations homepage.

You can also access our Investor Relations Web site through our
    main Web site at www.americanexpress.com by clicking on the
     About American Express  link, which is located at the
    bottom of our homepage. Information contained on our Investor
    Relations Web site and our main Web site is not incorporated by
    reference into this report or any other report filed with or
    furnished to the SEC.

2010
    Highlights  

Compared with 2009, we delivered:

*Some of the statements in
    this report constitute forward-looking statements. You can
    identify forward-looking statements by words such as
     believe,   expect,   anticipate, 
     optimistic,   intend,   plan, 
     aim,   will,   may, 
     should,   could,   would, 
     likely,   estimate,   predict, 
     potential,   continue  or other similar
    expressions. We discuss certain factors that affect our business
    and operations and that may cause our actual results to differ
    materially from these forward-looking statements under
     Item 1A. Risk Factors  below. You are cautioned not
    to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements,
    which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We
    undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any
    forward-looking statements.

1

Table of Contents   

The Company s results for 2010 reflected strong spending
    growth and improved credit performance. Throughout the year
    cardmember spending volumes grew both in the United States and
    internationally, and across all of the Company s
    businesses. Cardmember spending levels in 2010 reached record
    levels at the end of the year. Improving credit trends
    contributed to the reduction in loan and receivable write-offs
    and the reduction of loss reserve levels over the course of 2010
    when compared to 2009. It is expected that the
     year-over-year 
    benefits from improving credit trends will decrease over the
    course of 2011. While the Company invested at historically high
    levels in 2010, it intends to maintain the flexibility to scale
    back on investments as business conditions change and the
    benefits realized from improving credit trends lessen.

Despite improvement in parts of the economic environment,
    challenges clearly remain for the Company, both in the United
    States and in many other key regions. These challenges include
    weak job creation, volatile consumer confidence, consumer
    behavior, an uncertain housing market, and the regulatory and
    legislative environment, including the uncertain impact of the
    Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of
    2009 (the  CARD Act ), of the recently enacted
    Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
    ( Dodd-Frank ) and of the proceeding against the
    Company recently brought by the Department of Justice
    ( DOJ ) and certain state attorneys general alleging a
    violation of the U.S. antitrust laws. In addition, as
    previously discussed, the Company will stop receiving quarterly
    litigation payments from MasterCard International, Inc.
    ( MasterCard ) and Visa Inc. ( Visa ) at the
    end of the second and fourth quarters of 2011, respectively, and
     year-over-year 
    comparisons will be more difficult to maintain in light of the
    strong 2010 results.

In 2011, the Company will be particularly focused on several
    initiatives designed to help us accomplish our long-term growth
    goals: providing greater value to merchants; adding more women,
    minorities and younger adults to our customer base; accelerating
    our growth outside the U.S.; making significant progress in the
    Enterprise Growth Group; and increasing our share of online
    spending across all products while transforming our
    customers  digital experience.

We also continue to seek more ways to turn existing capabilities
    and relationships into new fee services. In the past eighteen
    months, we launched or expanded several key initiatives,
    including Business Insights, which provides analytics and
    consulting services to help merchants attract more customers and
    increase sales, and AcceptPay, which simplifies the invoicing
    and payment process for small businesses. Overall, we set an
    aggressive goal to generate $3 billion in annual fee-based
    revenues for the Company by the end of 2014.

For a complete discussion of our 2010 financial results,
    including financial information regarding each of our reportable
    operating segments, see pages 20-120 of our 2010 Annual
    Report to Shareholders, which are incorporated herein by
    reference. For a discussion of our principal sources of revenue,
    see pages 72-73 of the 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Products
    and Services  

The Company s range of products and services includes:

charge and credit card products

expense management products and services

consumer and business travel services

stored value products such as Travelers Cheques and other
    prepaid products

network services

merchant acquisition and processing,
     point-of-sale, 
    servicing and settlement, and marketing and information products
    and services for merchants; and

2

Table of Contents   

fee services, including market and trend analyses and related
    consulting services, fraud prevention services, and the design
    of customized customer loyalty and rewards programs.

The Company s products and services are sold globally to
    diverse customer groups, including consumers, small businesses,
    mid-sized companies and large corporations. These products and
    services are sold through various channels, including direct
    mail, on-line applications, targeted direct and third-party
    sales forces, and direct response advertising.

The Company s products and services generate the following
    types of revenue for the Company:

Discount revenue, the Company s largest revenue source,
    which represents fees charged to merchants when cardmembers use
    their cards to purchase goods and services on the Company s
    network;

Net card fees, which represent revenue earned for annual charge
    card memberships;

Travel commissions and fees, which are earned by charging a
    transaction or management fee for airline or other
    travel-related transactions;

Other commissions and fees, which are earned on foreign exchange
    conversions and card-related fees and assessments;

Other revenue, which represents insurance premiums earned from
    cardmember travel and other insurance programs, revenues arising
    from contracts with Global Network Services  partners
    (including royalties and signing fees), publishing revenues and
    other miscellaneous revenue and fees; and

Interest and fees on loans, which principally represents
    interest income earned on outstanding balances, and card fees
    related to the cardmember loans portfolio.

Our general-purpose card network, card-issuing and
    merchant-acquiring and processing businesses are global in
    scope. We are a world leader in providing charge and credit
    cards to consumers, small businesses and corporations. These
    cards include cards issued by American Express as well as cards
    issued by third-party banks and other institutions that are
    accepted on the American Express network (collectively,
     Cards ). Our Cards permit our cardmembers
    ( Cardmembers ) to charge purchases of goods and
    services in most countries around the world at the millions of
    merchants that accept Cards bearing our logo. At
    December 31, 2010, we had total worldwide
     Cards-in-force 
    of 91.0 million (including Cards issued by third parties).
    In 2010, our worldwide billed business (spending on American
    Express   

    Cards, including Cards issued by third parties) was
    $713 billion.

The Company has also recently created an Enterprise Growth Group
    to focus on generating alternative sources of revenue on a
    global basis, both organically and through acquisitions, in
    areas such as online and mobile payments and fee-based services.
    For a discussion concerning our Enterprise Growth Group, please
    see  Corporate   Other  below.

Our business as a whole has not experienced significant seasonal
    fluctuations, although travel sales generally tend to be highest
    in the second and fourth quarters. Travelers Cheque sales and
    Travelers Cheques outstanding tend to be greatest each year in
    the summer months, peaking in the third quarter. American
    Express   

    Gift Card sales are highest in the months of November and
    December; and Card billed business tends to be moderately higher
    in the fourth quarter than in other quarters.

Spend-Centric
    Model is Competitive Advantage  

Despite the continuing challenges of the current economic
    environment, we believe our  spend-centric  business
    model (which focuses on generating revenues primarily by driving
    spending on our Cards and secondarily by finance charges and
    fees) continues to give us significant competitive advantages.
    Average spending on our Cards, which is substantially higher on
    a per-card basis for us versus our competitors, represents
    greater value to merchants in the form of loyal customers and
    higher sales. This enables us to earn premium discount rates and
    thereby invest in greater value-added services for merchants and
    Cardmembers. As a result of the higher revenues generated from
    higher spending Cardmembers, we have the flexibility to invest
    in more attractive rewards and other incentives to Cardmembers,
    and targeted marketing and other

3

Table of Contents   

programs and investments for merchants, all of which in turn
    create incentives for Cardmembers to spend more on their Cards.
    The significant investments we make in rewards and other
    compelling value propositions for Cardmembers drive Card usage
    at merchants and encourage Cardmember loyalty. This business
    model, along with our closed-loop network, in which we are both
    the Card issuer and, in most instances, the merchant acquirer,
    gives us a competitive advantage that we seek to leverage to
    provide more value to Cardmembers, merchants and our
    Card-issuing partners.

The
    American Express Brand  

Our brand and its attributes trust, security, integrity,
    quality and customer service are key assets of the Company.
    We continue to focus on our brand by educating employees about
    these attributes and by incorporating them into our programs,
    products and services. Our brand has consistently been rated one
    of the most valuable brands in the world in published studies,
    and we believe it provides us with a significant competitive
    advantage.

We believe our brand and its attributes are critical to our
    success, and we invest heavily in managing, marketing and
    promoting it. In addition, we place significant importance on
    trademarks, service marks and patents, and diligently protect
    our intellectual property rights around the world.

GLOBAL
    NETWORK   MERCHANT SERVICES  

The Global Network   Merchant Services
    ( GNMS ) segment operates a global general-purpose
    charge and credit card network for both proprietary Cards and
    Cards issued under the global network services business. It also
    manages merchant services globally, which includes signing
    merchants to accept Cards as well as processing and settling
    Card transactions for those merchants. This segment also offers
    merchants
     point-of-sale, 
    servicing and settlement, fraud prevention services, and
    marketing and information products and services.

Cards bearing our logo are issued by our principal operating
    subsidiary, TRS, by the Company s U.S. bank
    subsidiaries, American Express Centurion Bank ( Centurion
    Bank ) and American Express Bank, FSB ( AEBFSB ),
    and by other operating and bank subsidiaries outside the United
    States. They are accepted at all merchant locations worldwide
    that accept American Express-branded Cards. In addition,
    depending on the product, Cards bearing our logo are generally
    accepted at ATM locations worldwide that accept Cards. TRS and
    its subsidiaries, including Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, issue the
    majority of Cards on our network.

Our Global Network Services ( GNS ) business
    establishes and maintains relationships with banks and other
    institutions around the world that issue Cards and, in certain
    countries, acquire local merchants on the American Express
    network. GNS is key to our strategy of broadening the Cardmember
    and merchant base for our network worldwide.

Our Global Merchant Services ( GMS ) business provides
    us with access to rich transaction data through our closed-loop
    network, which encompasses relationships with both the
    Cardmember and the merchant. This capability helps us acquire
    new merchants, deepen relationships with existing merchants,
    process transactions, and provide targeted marketing, analytical
    and other value-added services to merchants in our network. In
    addition, it allows us to analyze trends and spending patterns
    among various segments of our customer base.

Global
    Network Services  

We continue to pursue a strategy, through our GNS business, of
    inviting U.S. and foreign banks and other institutions to
    issue Cards and acquire merchants on the American Express
    network. By leveraging our global infrastructure and the appeal
    of the American Express brand, we broaden our Cardmember and
    merchant base for our network worldwide. The GNS business has
    established 129 card-issuing
     and/or 
    merchant-acquiring arrangements with banks and other
    institutions in 131 countries.

4

Table of Contents   

In 2010, GNS signed four new partners to issue Cards
     and/or 
    acquire merchants on the American Express network. Additionally,
    GNS partners launched approximately 77 new products during 2010,
    bringing the total number of American Express-branded GNS
    partner products to approximately 1,000.

GNS focuses on partnering with qualified third-party banks and
    other financial institutions that choose to issue Cards accepted
    on our global network
     and/or 
    acquire merchants on our network. Although we customize our
    network arrangements to the particular country and each
    partner s requirements, as well as to our strategic plans
    in that marketplace, all GNS arrangements are designed to help
    issuers develop products for their highest-spending and most
    affluent customers and to support the value of American Express
    Card acceptance to merchants. We choose to partner with
    institutions that share a core set of attributes compatible with
    the American Express brand, such as commitment to high quality
    standards and strong marketing expertise, and we require
    adherence to our product, brand and service standards.**

As discussed below, while GNS has added significant partners in
    2010, a core strategy of GNS is to build and invest in deeper
    and more meaningful relationships with its existing partners.

With approximately 1,000 different Card products launched on our
    network so far by our partners, GNS is an increasingly important
    business that is strengthening our brand visibility around the
    world, driving more transaction volume onto our merchant network
    and increasing the number of merchants accepting the American
    Express Card. GNS enables us to expand our network s global
    presence generally without assuming additional Cardmember credit
    risk or having to invest a large amount of resources, as our GNS
    partners already have established attractive customer bases they
    can target with American Express-branded products, and are
    responsible for managing the credit risk associated with the
    Cards they issue. Since 1999,
     Cards-in-force 
    issued by GNS partners have grown at a compound annual growth
    rate of 24%, and totaled over 29 million Cards at the end
    of 2010. Outside the United States, 75% of new Cards issued in
    2010 were Cards issued by GNS partners. Spending on GNS Cards
    has grown at a compound annual rate of 25% since 1999.
     Year-over-year 
    spending growth on these Cards in 2010 was 28%, with total
    spending equal to $92 billion.

In assessing whether a given country should be proprietary, GNS,
    or some combination thereof, we consider a wide range of
    country-specific factors including the stability and
    attractiveness of returns, the size of the affluent segment, the
    strength of available marketing and credit data, the size of
    co-brand opportunities and how best can we create strong
    merchant value.

GNS
    Arrangements  

Although the structures and details of each of the GNS
    arrangements vary, all of them generate revenues for us from the
    Card transaction volumes they drive on the American Express
    network. Gross revenues we receive per dollar spent on a Card
    issued by a GNS partner are generally lower than those from our
    proprietary Card-issuing business. However, because the GNS
    partner is responsible for most of the operating costs and risk
    of its Card-issuing business, our operating expenses and credit
    losses are generally lower than those in our proprietary
    Card-issuing business. The GNS business model generates an
    attractive earnings stream and risk profile that requires a
    lower level of capital support. The return on equity in our GNS
    business can thus be significantly higher than that of our
    proprietary Card-issuing business. In addition, since the
    majority of GNS costs are fixed, the GNS business is highly
    scalable. GNS partners benefit from their association with the
    American Express brand and their ability to gain attractive
    revenue streams and expand and differentiate their product
    offerings with innovative marketing programs.

Our GNS arrangements fall into the following three main
    categories: Independent Operator Arrangements, Network Card
    License Arrangements and Joint Venture Arrangements.

** The use of the term
     partner  or  partnering  does not mean or
    imply a formal legal partnership, and is not meant in any way to
    alter the terms of American Express  relationship with
    third-party issuers and merchant acquirers.

5

Table of Contents   

Independent
    Operator Arrangements  

The first type of GNS arrangement is known as an independent
    operator ( IO ) arrangement. As of the end of 2010, we
    had 64 of these arrangements around the world. We pursue these
    arrangements to expand the presence of the American Express
    network in countries in which we do not offer a proprietary
    local currency Card. The partner s local presence and
    relationships help us enhance the impact of our brand in the
    country, reach merchant coverage goals more quickly, and operate
    at economic scale and cost levels that would be difficult for us
    to achieve on our own. Subject to meeting our standards, IO bank
    partners are licensed to issue local currency Cards in their
    countries, including the classic Green, Gold and Platinum
    American Express Cards. In addition, the majority of these
    partners serve as the merchant acquirer and processor for local
    merchants. American Express retains the relationship with
    multinational merchants. Our IO partners own the customer
    relationships and credit risk for the Cards they issue, and make
    the decisions about which customers will be issued Cards. GNS
    generates revenues in IO arrangements from Card licensing fees,
    royalties on Cardmember billings, foreign exchange conversion
    revenue, royalties on charge volume at merchants, share of
    discount revenue and, in some partnerships, royalties on net
    spread revenue or royalties on
     cards-in-force. 
    Our IO partners are responsible for transaction authorization,
    billing and pricing, Cardmember and merchant servicing, and
    funding Card receivables for their Cards and payables for their
    merchants.

We bear the credit risk arising from the IO partner s
    potential failure to meet its settlement obligations to us. We
    mitigate this risk by partnering with institutions that we
    believe are financially sound and will meet their obligations,
    and by monitoring their financial health, their compliance with
    the terms of their relationship with us and the political,
    economic and regulatory environment in which they operate. In
    addition, depending on an IO partner s credit rating and
    other indicators of financial health, we may require an IO
    partner to post a letter of credit, bank guarantee or other
    collateral to reduce this risk.

Examples of countries where we have entered into IO arrangements
    include Brazil, Russia, China, Indonesia, Turkey, Ecuador,
    Greece, South Korea, Pakistan, Croatia, Peru, Portugal and
    Vietnam. Through our IO partnerships, we believe we can
    accelerate growth in Cardmember spending,
     Cards-in-force 
    and merchant acceptance in these countries.

Network
    Card License Arrangements  

The second type of GNS arrangement is known as a network card
    license ( NCL ). At the end of 2010, we had 61 of
    these arrangements in place worldwide. We pursue these
    arrangements to increase our brand presence and gain share in
    countries in which we have a proprietary Card-issuing
     and/or 
    merchant acquiring business and, in a few cases, those in which
    we have IO partners. In an NCL arrangement, we grant the
    third-party financial institution a license to issue American
    Express-branded Cards. The NCL issuer owns the customer
    relationships for all Cards it issues, provides customer service
    to its Cardmembers, authorizes transactions, manages billing and
    credit, is responsible for marketing the Cards, and designs Card
    product features (including rewards and other incentives for
    Cardmembers), subject to meeting certain standards. We operate
    the merchant network, route and process Card transactions from
    the merchant s
     point-of-sale 
    through submission to the issuer, and settle with issuers. The
    NCL is the type of arrangement we have implemented with banks in
    the United States, United Kingdom, Australia and Japan.

GNS  revenues in NCL arrangements are driven by a variety
    of factors, including the level of Cardmember spending,
    royalties, currency conversions and licensing fees paid by the
    partner and fees charged to the Card issuer based on charge
    volume, and our provision of value-added services such as
    Cardmember insurance products and other Card features and
    benefits for the issuer s Cards. As indicated above, the
    NCL issuer bears the credit risk for the issued Cards, as well
    as the Card marketing and acquisition costs, Cardmember fraud
    risks and costs of rewards and other loyalty initiatives. We
    bear the risk arising from the NCL partner s potential
    failure to meet its settlement obligations to us. We mitigate
    this risk by partnering with institutions that we believe are
    financially sound and will meet their obligations, and by
    monitoring their financial health, their compliance with the
    terms of their relationship with us and the political, economic
    and regulatory environment in which they operate. In addition,
    depending on an NCL issuer s credit rating and

6

Table of Contents   

other indicators of financial health, we may require an NCL
    issuer to post a letter of credit, bank guarantee or other
    collateral to reduce this risk.

Examples of NCL arrangements include our relationships with Bank
    of America in the United States, Lloyds TSB Bank in the United
    Kingdom and Westpac Banking Corporation in Australia.

Joint
    Venture Arrangements  

The third type of GNS arrangement is a joint venture
    ( JV ) arrangement. We have utilized this type of
    arrangement in Switzerland and Belgium, as well as in other
    countries. In these countries, we join with a third-party to
    establish a separate business in which we have a significant
    ownership stake. The JV typically signs new merchants to the
    American Express network and issues local currency Cards that
    carry our logo. In a JV arrangement, the JV is responsible for
    the Cardmember credit risk and bears the operating and marketing
    costs. Unlike the other two types of GNS arrangements, we share
    management, risk, and profit and loss responsibility with our JV
    partners. Income is generated by discount revenues, card fees
    and net spread revenues. The economics of the JV are similar to
    those of our proprietary Card-issuing business, which we discuss
    under  U.S. Card Services,  and we receive a
    portion of the JV s income depending on, among other
    things, the level of our ownership interest. Our subsidiary,
    AEOCC Ltd., purchases card receivables from certain of the GNS
    JVs from time to time.

GNS
    Business Highlights  

Outside the United States we signed a number of agreements in
    2010 to enhance our presence in countries where we already do
    business and further expanded our global presence into new
    geographic areas.

Some of the highlights of our GNS business outside the United
    States in 2010 include:

Announcement of a new card partnership with Sberbank, a leading
    retail bank in Russia, for the issuance of American Express
    branded-cards in Russia

Expansion of our card-issuing partnership with China Merchants
    Bank through the launch of American Express consumer Cards that
    bear the Centurion image

Announcement of the launch of the Pantai American
    Express   

    Credit Card with Maybank in Malaysia, the first medical co-brand
    credit card with a leading healthcare service provider in
    Malaysia

Renewal by Credit Saison of its signature product line in Japan
    and introduction of four new Saison American Express Cards with
    the Centurion image

Launch of the Blue from American Express Card in Georgia, with
    our partner, Bank of Georgia

Launch of the Blue from American Express Card in Kazakhstan,
    with our partner, Kazkommertsbank

Launch of the American
    Express   

    Gold Card in Armenia, with our partner, ACBA Credit Agricole.

GNS continues to expand the airline co-brand products issued
    through GNS relationships, launching 8 new airline co-brands in
    2010 bringing the total to 52 airline co-brand products. Some of
    the key airline co-brand launches outside the United States in
    2010 include:

Hana SK Skypass American
    Express   

    Card and the Hana SK Skypass Corporate American
    Express   

    Card with HanaSK Card Co., Ltd. in Korea

Lotte Skypass from American Express with Lotte Bank in South
    Korea

Miles   More Brussels Airlines products with our
    partner Alpha Card in Belgium

AAdvantage from Bank of America Europe Card Services (MBNA) in
    the United Kingdom

Aeroflot Card from American Express with our partner Russian
    Standard Bank in Russia

La Tarjeta Distancia American
    Express   

    Platinum and Elite with Banco de Guayaquil in Ecuador.

7

Table of Contents   

Some of the highlights of our GNS business in the United States
    in 2010 include:

Announcement of a new partnership for Macy s and
    Bloomingdale s credit cards to be co-branded exclusively
    with American Express and issued by Citibank

Announcement of a new partnership with Regions Bank in the
    U.S. to launch the Regions
    Reserve  sm  

    American
    Express   

    Card, developed for Regions Bank s Private Banking clients
    and issued by Bank of America.

Global
    Merchant Services  

We operate a GMS business, which includes signing merchants to
    accept Cards, accepting and processing Card transactions, and
    settling with merchants that accept Cards for purchases made by
    Cardmembers with Cards ( Charges ). We also provide
    marketing information, and other programs and services to
    merchants, leveraging the capabilities provided by our
    investments in our closed-loop structure, as well as
     point-of-sale 
    products, servicing, and fraud prevention services.

Our objective is for Cardmembers to be able to use the Card
    wherever and however they desire, and to increase merchant
    coverage in key geographic areas and in selected new industries
    that have not traditionally accepted the Card. We add new
    merchants to our network through a number of sales channels: a
    proprietary sales force, third-party sales and service agents,
    strategic alliances with banks and processors, the Internet,
    telemarketing and inbound  Want to Honor  calls (i.e.,
    where merchants desiring to accept the Card contact us
    directly). As discussed in the  Global Network
    Services  section, our IO partners and JVs also add new
    local merchants to the American Express network.

During 2010, we continued expanding our integrated American
    Express
    OnePoint   

    solution for small- and medium-sized merchants in the United
    States. Under this program, third-party service agents provide
    payment processing services to merchants on our behalf for Card
    transactions, while we retain the acceptance contract with
    participating merchants, manage merchant pricing decisions and
    negotiations, and receive the same transactional information we
    always have received through our closed-loop network. This
    program simplifies card processing for small- and medium-sized
    merchants by providing them with a single source for statements,
    settlement and customer service. We are now following a similar
    strategy to our OnePoint solution in Spain through our
    arrangement with La Caixa, one of Spain s largest
    acquirers.

GMS continues to significantly expand the number of merchants
    that accept our Card products as well as the kinds of businesses
    that accept the Card. Over the last several years, we have
    focused our efforts on increasing the use of our Cards for
    everyday spending. In 1990, 64% of our U.S. billings came
    from the travel and entertainment sectors and 36% came from
    retail and other sectors. That proportion has now been more than
    reversed. In 2010, U.S. non-travel and entertainment
    billings represented approximately 71.5% of the U.S. billed
    business on American Express Cards. This shift resulted, in
    part, from the growth, over time, in the types of merchants that
    began to accept charge and credit cards in response to
    consumers  increased desire to use these cards for more of
    their purchases, our focus on expanding Card acceptance to meet
    Cardmembers  needs, and increased competition from our
    competitors for travel and entertainment sector spending.

During 2010, we continued our efforts to bring Card acceptance
    to industries where cash or checks are the predominant form of
    payment. For example, we have made headway in promoting Card
    acceptance in industries such as pharmaceuticals, construction,
    industrial supply, insurance and advertising. Card acceptance
    agreements signed in 2010 in the United States include:

Mercury Insurance Group, a leading insurance company

BDO USA, LLP, a leading professional services firm providing
    assurance, tax, financial advisory and consulting services

Applied Medical, a global medical device company that develops,
    manufactures and markets medical devices used in surgical
    procedures.

8

Table of Contents   

Internationally, among others, Card acceptance agreements were
    reached with:

Centro de Recaudaciones de Impuestos Municipales (CRIM), the tax
    collections governmental agency in Puerto Rico   the
    Caribbean

Municipio de Naucalpan in Mexico

AAMI, one of Australia s largest and highest profile
    general insurance companies

Ageas Insurance Solutions in the United Kingdom.

Additionally, we continued our drive to expand Card acceptance
    for retail and everyday spending categories outside the United
    States. For example, during 2010, we announced Card acceptance
    agreements with:

Seven Eleven, now accepting the Card in Mexico

Best Buy, now accepting the Card in the United Kingdom

Kaiser s Tengelmann AG, now an accepting supermarket
    merchant in Germany.

Globally, acceptance of general-purpose charge and credit cards
    continues to increase. As in prior years, during 2010, we
    continued to grow merchant acceptance of Cards around the world
    and to refine our approach to calculating merchant coverage in
    accordance with changes in the marketplace. Management estimates
    that, as of the end of 2010, our merchant network in the United
    States accommodated more than 90% of our Cardmembers 
    general-purpose charge and credit card spending, and our
    international merchant network as a whole accommodated
    approximately 80% of our Cardmembers  general-purpose
    charge and credit card spending. These percentages are based on
    comparing our Cardmembers  spending on our network
    currently with our estimate of what our Cardmembers would spend
    on our network if all merchants that accept general-purpose
    credit and charge cards accepted American Express Cards.

We earn  discount  revenue from fees charged to
    merchants for accepting Cards as payment for goods or services
    sold. The merchant discount is the fee charged to the merchant
    for accepting Cards and is generally expressed as a percentage
    of the amount charged on a Card. In some instances, an
    additional flat transaction fee is assessed. The merchant
    discount is generally deducted from the amount of the payment
    that the  merchant acquirer  (in most cases, including
    for all U.S. merchants, TRS or one of its subsidiaries)
    pays to a merchant for Charges submitted. A merchant acquirer is
    the entity that contracts for Card acceptance with the merchant,
    accepts transactions from the merchant, pays the merchant for
    these transactions and submits the transactions to the American
    Express network, which submits the transactions to the
    appropriate Card issuer. When a Cardmember presents the Card for
    payment, the merchant creates a record of charge for the
    transaction and submits it to the merchant acquirer for payment.
    To the extent that TRS or one of its subsidiaries is the
    merchant acquirer, the merchant discount is recorded by us as
    discount revenue at the time the transaction is received by us
    from the merchant.

Where we act as the merchant acquirer and the Card presented at
    a merchant is issued by a third-party bank or financial
    institution, such as in the case of our GNS partners, we will
    make financial settlement to the merchant and receive the
    discount revenue. In our role as the operator of the Card
    network, we will also receive financial settlement from the Card
    issuer, who receives an issuer rate (i.e., the individually
    negotiated amount that Card issuers receive for transactions
    charged on our network with Cards they issue, which is usually
    expressed as a percentage of the charged amount). The difference
    between the discount revenue (received by us in the form of the
    merchant discount) and the issuer rate received by the Card
    issuer generates a return to us. In cases where American Express
    is the Card issuer and the merchant acquirer is a third-party
    bank or financial institution (which can be the case in a
    country in which the IO is the local merchant acquirer), we
    receive an individually negotiated issuer rate in our settlement
    with the merchant acquirer, which is recorded by us as discount
    revenue. By contrast with networks such as Visa and MasterCard,
    there is no collectively set interchange rate on the American
    Express network.

9

Table of Contents   

The following diagrams depict the relationships among the
    parties in a
     point-of-sale 
    transaction effected on the American Express network where we
    act as both the Card issuer and merchant acquirer (the
     3-Party Model ) and under an NCL arrangement where
    third-party financial institutions act as Card issuers (the
     NCL Model ):

The merchant discount we charge reflects the value we deliver to
    the merchant and generally represents a premium over the rates
    charged for acceptance of many cards issued on other networks.
    We deliver greater value to merchants in a variety of ways,
    including through higher spending by our Cardmembers relative to
    users of cards issued on competing card networks, our product
    and network features and functionality, our marketing expertise
    and programs, information services, fraud prevention services,
    and other investments which enhance the merchant value
    propositions associated with acceptance of the Card.

The merchant discount varies, among other factors, with the
    industry in which the merchant does business, the
    merchant s Charge volume, the timing and method of payment
    to the merchant, the method of submission of Charges and, in
    certain instances, the geographic scope of the Card acceptance
    agreement signed with us (local or global) and the Charge amount.

In prior years, we experienced some reduction in our global
    weighted average merchant discount rate. The average discount
    rate was 2.55 percent and 2.54 percent for 2010 and
    2009, respectively. Over time, certain repricing initiatives,
    changes in the mix of business and volume-related pricing
    discounts and investments will likely result in some erosion of
    the average discount rate.

While most merchants that accept our Cards understand our
    merchant discount pricing in relation to the value provided, we
    do encounter a relatively small number of merchants that accept
    our Cards, but tell their customers that they prefer to accept
    another type of payment or otherwise seek to suppress use of the
    Card. Subject to local legal requirements (such as, by way of
    example, Dodd-Frank), we respond to this issue vigorously to
    ensure that our Cardmembers are able to use their Card where and
    when they want to and to protect the American Express brand. We
    have made progress limiting Card suppression by focusing on
    acquiring merchants where Cardmembers want to use the Card;
    continuing to enhance the value we provide to merchants through
    programs such as DailyWish and American Express Selects, which
    enable merchants of

10

Table of Contents   

any size to gain valuable exposure and additional sales by
    providing exclusive offers and experiences to American Express
    Cardmembers; developing and providing new and innovative
    business insights, marketing programs and fraud prevention tools
    using information available through our closed-loop network;
    providing better and earlier communication of our value
    proposition; and, when appropriate, exercising our right to
    terminate Card acceptance agreements with merchants who seek to
    suppress the use of our Card products. We have a client
    management organization which is dedicated to growing our
    merchant customers  business and finding ways to enhance
    effectiveness of our relationship with these key business
    partners. Most importantly, we recognize that it is the
    merchant s choice whether or not to accept American Express
    cards and that all merchants have numerous options given the
    intense competition from new and traditional forms of payment.
    Therefore, we dedicate substantial resources to delivering
    superior and differentiated value to attract and retain our
    merchant customers.

The laws of a number of states in the U.S. and certain
    countries outside the U.S. prohibit surcharging credit card
    purchases. American Express  Card acceptance agreements
    with merchants generally do not prohibit surcharging so long as
    it is permitted by law and a merchant does not discriminate
    against the Card by surcharging higher amounts on purchases with
    the Card than on purchases with other cards, or by imposing a
    surcharge only on Card purchases, but not on purchases made with
    other cards. American Express also does not prohibit merchants
    from offering discounts to customers who pay with cash, check or
    Automated Clearing House (i.e., inter-bank transfers or
     ACH ). In addition, American Express does not
    prohibit U.S. merchants from offering discounts or in-kind
    incentives to customers who pay with particular forms of payment
    in accordance with the provisions of Dodd-Frank, which was
    enacted in July 2010. For information concerning the proceeding
    against us recently brought by the DOJ and certain state
    attorneys general alleging violation of the U.S. antitrust
    laws with regard to certain provisions of our merchant
    agreements that are designed to protect our Cardmembers and our
    brand against discrimination at the point of sale, please see
     Corporate Matters  within  Legal
    Proceedings  beginning on page 91.

GMS is focused on understanding and addressing factors that
    influence merchant satisfaction, including developing and
    executing innovative programs that increase Card usage at
    merchants, using technology resources, enhancing operational
    efficiencies and merchants  ease of doing business with us,
    providing a suite of online servicing tools, making our United
    States operating procedures easily available to merchants on our
    Web site, applying our closed-loop capabilities and deep
    marketing expertise, and strengthening our relationships with
    merchants through an expanding roster of services that helps
    them meet their business goals.

We also offer our merchant customers a full range of
     point-of-sale 
    solutions, including integrated
     point-of-sale 
    terminals, software, online solutions, and direct links that
    allow merchants to accept American Express Cards (as well as
    credit and debit cards issued on other networks and checks).
    Virtually all proprietary
     point-of-sale 
    solutions support direct processing (i.e., direct connectivity)
    to American Express, which can lower a merchant s cost of
    Card acceptance and enhance payment efficiency.

In November 2010, we acquired Accertify Inc., a leading provider
    of solutions that help merchants combat fraudulent online and
    other card-not-present transactions. Launched in 2007, Accertify
    provides a hosted software application that offers an extra
    level of security for transactions over any of the major payment
    networks, including American Express, Visa, MasterCard, Discover
    and PayPal, or any other alternative payment method. Accertify
    also offers merchants the option to outsource their
     end-to-end 
    fraud management process. With the acquisition of Accertify,
    American Express is able to broaden its fraud prevention
    services to merchants for transactions that take place on all
    networks. Accertify s capabilities are incremental and
    complementary to American Express  fraud solutions already
    offered to merchants for transactions on the American Express
    network.

In November 2010, we also announced the launch of American
    Express
    SafeKey  sm  ,

    an online fraud prevention solution, which licenses Visa s
     3-D  Secure
    Protocol, a technology embraced by the payments industry as a
    global standard for payment authentication.

We continue to focus our commitment to driving global
    interoperability in payment card specifications, making it
    easier for merchants to accept our Cards, for Cardmembers to
    have a more seamless experience at

11

Table of Contents   

the point of sale, and for issuers who have more than one
    network relationship to have a standard across their card
    products.

We are an owner-member of EMVCo, the standards body that
    manages, maintains, and enhances specifications for chip-based
    payment cards and acceptance devices, including
     point-of-sale 
    terminals. Our participation in this company helps to drive
    secure and interoperable payments globally for transactions made
    with chip cards by aligning and progressing the EMV
    specifications. Further, as EMVCo s scope expands to
    include emerging payment technologies such as contactless cards
    and mobile phones, our participation will facilitate our
    products and specifications being universally compatible and
    ready for merchant acceptance.

We continue to focus our efforts in areas that make use and
    acceptance of the Card more convenient for merchants and
    Cardmembers. For instance, American Express offers a contactless
    payment feature embedded in certain cards, to provide a fast,
    easy-to-use alternative to cash, check, debit or other payment
    forms, particularly for making everyday purchases at merchants
    where speed and convenience is important. In the U.S., top
    quick-service restaurants, movie theaters, drug and convenience
    stores and major retail chains readily accept American Express
    contactless payments. Similarly, Automatic Bill Payment focuses
    on providing convenience by allowing merchants to bill
    Cardmembers on a regular basis for recurring charges approved by
    the Cardmember such as insurance premiums, newspaper
    subscriptions, health club memberships, commutation costs and
    telecommunication services. Additionally, to provide extra
    convenience and speed at the point of sale, low value
    transactions (under $25 in the U.S.) do not require a signature.

Wherever we manage both the acquiring relationship with
    merchants and the Card-issuing side of the business, there is a
     closed-loop,  which distinguishes our network from
    the bankcard networks, in that we have access to information at
    both ends of the Card transaction. We maintain direct
    relationships with both our Cardmembers and our merchants, and
    we handle all key aspects of those relationships.

Our relationships allow us to analyze information on Cardmember
    spending. This enables us to provide targeted marketing and
    other information services for merchants and special offers and
    services to Cardmembers through a variety of channels. Recently,
    we created a business within GMS called American
    Express   

    Business Insights, which offers products and services derived
    from our strong business model and closed loop network. Business
    Insights combines aggregated, non-personally identifiable data
    and trend analysis to provide specialized business planning and
    marketing expertise to our customers. At the same time, we
    protect the confidentiality of information on Cardmember
    spending, and comply with our privacy and firewall policies and
    applicable legal requirements.

We work closely with our Card-issuing and merchant-acquiring
    bank partners to maintain key elements of this closed-loop,
    which permits them to customize marketing efforts, deliver
    greater value to their Cardmembers and help us to direct
    increased business to merchants who accept the Card.

As the merchant acquirer, we have certain exposures that arise
    if a billing dispute between a Cardmember and a merchant is
    settled in favor of the Cardmember. Drivers of this liability
    are returns in the normal course of business, disputes over
    fraudulent charges, the quality or non-delivery of goods and
    services and billing errors. Typically, we offset the amount due
    to the Cardmember against payments for the merchant s
    current or future Charge submissions. We can realize losses when
    a merchant s offsetting Charge submissions cease, such as
    when the merchant decides to no longer accept the Card,
    commences a bankruptcy proceeding or goes out of business. We
    actively monitor our merchant base to assess the risk of this
    exposure. When appropriate, we will take action to reduce the
    net exposure to a given merchant by holding cash reserves funded
    through Charge payable holdbacks from a merchant, lengthening
    the time between when the merchant submits a Charge for payment
    and when we pay the merchant requiring the merchant to secure a
    letter of credit or a parent company guarantee, or implementing
    other appropriate risk management tools. We also establish
    reserves on our balance sheet for these contingencies in
    accordance with relevant accounting rules.

With the increase in electronic transmission of payment card
    transaction data over merchants 
     point-of-sale 
    systems, American Express and other card networks recognized the
    necessity for merchants and merchant processors to secure this
    data against accidental or intentional compromise using a
    standard protocol that applies to all card types. We and
    Discover Financial Services, JCB Co., Ltd., MasterCard Worldwide
    and

12

Table of Contents   

Visa formed PCI Security Standards Council, LLC ( PCI
    SSC ), an independent standards-setting organization. PCI
    SSC s role is to manage the Payment Card Industry
    ( PCI ) Data Security Standard, and more recently the
    PCI PIN Entry Device ( PED ) Security Requirements and
    the Payment Application Data Security Standard, which focus on
    improving payment card account security throughout the
    transaction process. By establishing PCI SSC, we and the other
    founders have developed common standards that are more
    accessible and efficient for participants in the payment card
    industry. All our merchants and service providers that store,
    process and transmit payment card data are required to comply
    with the PCI Data Security Standard. PCI SSC is dedicated to
    driving greater education, awareness and adoption of these
    security standards to ensure that all stakeholders involved in
    the payment process conduct their business responsibly.

In some markets outside the United States, particularly in Asia,
    third-party processors and some bankcard acquirers offer
    merchants the capability of converting credit card transactions
    from the local currency to the currency of the cardholder s
    residence (i.e., the cardholder s billing currency) at the
     point-of-sale, 
    and submitting the transaction in the cardholder s billing
    currency, thus bypassing the traditional foreign currency
    conversion process of the card network. This practice is known
    as  dynamic currency conversion.  If a merchant
    utilizes a dynamic currency conversion process, the merchant and
    processor share any fee assessed or spread earned for converting
    the transaction at the
     point-of-sale, 
    thus reducing or eliminating revenue for card issuers and card
    networks relating to the conversion of foreign charges to the
    cardholder s billing currency. This practice is still not
    widespread, and it remains uncertain whether its use will expand
    over time. Our policy generally requires merchants to submit
    Charges and be paid in the currency of the country in which the
    transaction occurs, and we convert the transaction to the
    Cardmember s billing currency.

Global
    Network   Merchant Services  
    Competition  

Our global card network, including our Global Merchant Services
    and Global Network Services businesses, competes in the global
    payments industry with other card networks, including, among
    others, Visa, MasterCard, Diners Club International (which was
    acquired by Discover Financial Services), and Discover
    (primarily in the United States). We are the third largest
    general-purpose charge and credit card network based on charge
    volume, behind Visa and MasterCard, which we believe are larger
    than we are in most countries. In addition, apart from such
    network services, a range of companies globally, including
    merchant acquirers and processors, carry out some activities
    similar to those performed by our GMS and GNS businesses. No
    single entity participates on a global basis in the full range
    of activities that are encompassed by our closed-loop business
    model.

The principal competitive factors that affect the network and
    merchant service businesses include:

the number of
     Cards-in-force 
    and amount of spending on these Cards

the quantity and quality of the establishments where the Cards
    can be used

the economic attractiveness to card issuers and merchants of
    participating in the network

the success of marketing and promotional campaigns

reputation and brand recognition

innovation and investment in systems, technology, product and
    service offerings, particularly in on-line commerce

the quality of customer service

the security of Cardmember and merchant information

the impact of existing litigation, legislation and government
    regulation

the cost of Card acceptance relative to the value provided.

Another aspect of network competition is the recent emergence
    and rapid growth of alternative payment mechanisms and systems,
    which include aggregators (such as PayPal), wireless payment
    technologies

13

Table of Contents   

(including using mobile telephone networks to carry out
    transactions), prepaid systems and systems linked to payment
    cards, and bank transfer models.

New technologies, together with the portability provided by
    smartphones and tablets and evolving consumer behavior with
    social networking, are rapidly changing the way people interact
    with each other and transact business all around the world. In
    this connection, traditional and non-traditional competitors
    such as mobile telecommunications companies are working to
    deliver digital and mobile payment services for both consumers
    and merchants. While we estimate that we have the largest share
    of online spending of any major card issuer and more global
    online billings volume than PayPal, the competition remains
    fierce for capturing online spend in the ever-increasing digital
    world.

To the extent alternative payment mechanisms and systems, such
    as aggregators, continue to successfully expand, discount
    revenues and our ability to access transaction data through our
    closed-loop network, and potentially other revenues could be
    negatively impacted. In the United States, alternative payment
    vehicles that seek to redirect customers to payment systems
    based on ACH continue to emerge and grow, and existing debit
    networks also continue to expand both on- and off-line and are
    making efforts to develop online PIN functionality, which could
    further reduce the relative use of charge and credit cards
    online. For a discussion concerning our involvement in the
    emerging payments area, please see  Enterprise Growth 
    beginning on page 34 below.

Some of our competitors have attempted to replicate our
    closed-loop functionality, such as Visa, with its Visa Incentive
    Network. Although it remains to be seen how effective Visa will
    be, efforts by Visa and other card networks and payment
    providers to replicate the closed-loop speak to its continued
    value and to the intensely competitive environment in which we
    operate.

Global
    Network   Merchant Services  
    Regulation  

Local regulations governing the issuance of charge and credit
    cards have not been a significant factor impacting GNS 
    arrangements with banks and qualifying financial institutions,
    because such banks and institutions generally are already
    authorized to issue general-purpose cards and, in the case of
    our IO arrangements, to operate merchant-acquiring businesses.
    Accordingly, our GNS partners have generally not had difficulty
    obtaining appropriate government authorization in the countries
    in which we have chosen to enter into GNS arrangements. As a
    service provider to regulated U.S. banks, our GNS business
    is subject to review by certain federal bank regulators,
    including the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance
    Corporation ( FDIC ), the Office of the Comptroller of
    the Currency ( OCC ) and the Office of Thrift
    Supervision ( OTS ).

As the operator of a general-purpose card network, we are also
    subject to certain provisions of the Currency and Foreign
    Transactions Reporting Act and the accompanying regulations
    issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury (collectively
    referred to as the  Bank Secrecy Act ), as amended by
    the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the  Patriot Act ). We
    conduct due diligence on our GNS partners to ensure that they
    have implemented and maintain sufficient anti-money laundering
    ( AML ) controls to prevent our network from being
    used for money laundering or terrorist financing purposes. As a
    result of American Express Company and TRS each being bank
    holding companies, our business is also subject to further
    regulation and regulatory oversight by the Federal Reserve. For
    additional information about our regulatory status, please see
     Supervision and Regulation   General 
    beginning on page 38 below.

In recent years, regulators in several countries outside the
    United States have focused on the fees involved in the operation
    of card networks, including interchange fees paid to card
    issuers and the fees merchants are charged to accept cards.
    Regulators in the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, Poland,
    Italy, Switzerland, Hungary, the European Union, Australia,
    Brazil, Mexico and Venezuela, among others, have conducted
    investigations that are either ongoing, concluded, or on appeal.

The interchange fee, which is the collectively set fee paid by
    the bankcard merchant acquirer to the card issuing bank in
     four party  payment networks, like Visa and
    MasterCard, is generally the largest component of the merchant
    service charge payable by merchants for bankcard debit and
    credit card acceptance in these

14

Table of Contents   

systems. By contrast, the American Express network does not have
    interchange fees. Although the regulators  focus has
    primarily been on Visa and MasterCard as the dominant card
    networks and their operations on a multilateral basis, antitrust
    actions and government regulation relating to merchant pricing
    could ultimately affect all networks. Lower interchange
     and/or 
    merchant discount revenue may lead card issuers to look for
    other sources of revenue from consumers such as higher annual
    card fees or interest charges, as well as to reduce costs by
    scaling back or eliminating rewards programs.

In the United States, Congress continued to focus on the
    interchange issue during 2010. Congress passed Dodd-Frank, which
    the President signed into law in July 2010. Dodd-Frank gives the
    Federal Reserve the authority to establish rules regarding
    interchange fees charged by payment card issuers for
    transactions in which a person uses a debit or general-use
    prepaid card, and to enforce a new statutory requirement that
    such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a
    transaction to the issuer, with specific allowances for the
    costs of fraud prevention, as well as to prohibit exclusive
    network routing restrictions for electronic debit transactions.
    American Express does not offer a debit card linked to a deposit
    account, but does issue various types of prepaid cards.
    Reloadable general-use prepaid cards, but not those marketed or
    labeled as gift cards or gift certificates, are exempt from the
    interchange fee limitations. In contrast to the interchange fee
    limitations, all prepaid cards would be subject to the exclusive
    network routing restrictions for electronic debit transactions.
    In December 2010, the Federal Reserve issued a Notice of
    Proposed Rulemaking requesting comments to implement the
    interchange fee limitations and exclusive network routing
    restrictions. The Federal Reserve has proposed two options for
    the interchange limitations and describes two interpretations of
    the statutory language on the exclusive network routing
    restrictions. Comments on the proposal were due by
    February 22, 2011. The Federal Reserve must issue final
    rules on the interchange limitations by April 2011, and those
    rules take effect on July 21, 2011. The Federal Reserve
    must issue final rules on the exclusive network routing
    restrictions by July 21, 2011. The statute does not specify
    when those rules must take effect. The proposed rules issued by
    the Federal Reserve have garnered attention from members of
    Congress, and the relevant congressional committees have held
    hearings to review the proposal. It is difficult to assess at
    this time the extent to which the final regulations, once
    issued, could adversely impact our revenues and profitability.

Additionally, Dodd-Frank prohibits payment card networks from
    restricting merchants from offering discounts or incentives to
    encourage customers to pay with particular forms of payment such
    as cash, check, credit or debit card, provided that such offers
    do not discriminate on the basis of the network or issuer.
    Further, to the extent required by federal law or applicable
    state law, the discount or incentive must be offered to all
    prospective buyers and must be clearly and conspicuously
    disclosed. Dodd-Frank also permits U.S. merchants to
    establish minimum purchase amounts of no more than $10 for
    credit card purchases, provided that the merchants do not
    discriminate between networks or issuers. Federal government
    agencies and institutions of higher learning are also permitted
    to establish maximum amounts for credit card purchases provided
    they do not discriminate between networks or issuers. As a
    result of these new laws, customers may be incentivized by
    merchants to move away from the use of charge and credit card
    products to other forms of payment, such as debit, which could
    adversely affect our revenues and profitability. During the last
    four years, a number of bills were proposed in individual state
    legislatures seeking to impose caps on credit card interchange
    fees or to prohibit credit card companies from charging a
    merchant discount on the sales tax portion of credit card
    purchases. Other proposals were aimed at increasing the
    transparency of card network rules for merchants. In addition, a
    number of bills were proposed to establish merchant liability
    for the costs of a data security breach of a merchant s
    system or require merchants to adopt technical safeguards to
    protect sensitive cardholder payment information. In 2010,
    Vermont enacted legislation that permits merchants to set a
    minimum dollar value of no more than $10 for acceptance of any
    form of payment; permits merchants to provide discounts or other
    benefits based on the form of payment (i.e., card, cash, check,
    debit card, stored-value card, charge card or credit card); and
    permits merchants to accept the cards of a payment system at one
    or more of its locations but not at others. This legislation may
    serve as a model for other states. In the event that additional
    legislative or regulatory activity to limit interchange or
    merchant fees continues or increases, or state data security
    legislation is adopted, our revenues and profitability could be
    adversely affected.

15

Table of Contents   

In certain countries where antitrust actions or regulations have
    led our competitors to lower their fees, we have made
    adjustments to our pricing to merchants to reflect local
    competitive trends. For example, reductions in bankcard
    interchange mandated by the Reserve Bank of Australia in 2003
    resulted in lower merchant discount rates for Visa and
    MasterCard acceptance. As a result of changes in the
    marketplace, we reduced our own merchant discount rates in
    Australia over time, although we have been able to increase
    billed business and the number of merchants accepting our Cards.
    In addition, under legislation enacted in Argentina, a merchant
    acquirer is required to charge the same merchant discount rate
    to all merchants in the same industry category, and merchant
    discount rates for credit cards cannot exceed 3%. The Central
    Bank of Venezuela has issued regulations regarding the maximum
    level of merchant discount rates by industry category. In
    December 2007, the European Commission ruled that
    MasterCard s multilateral interchange fees
    ( MIF ) for cross-border payment card transactions
    violate EC Treaty rules on restrictive business practices. The
    Commission s decision applies to cross-border consumer
    credit, charge and debit card transactions within the EU and to
    domestic transactions to which MasterCard has chosen to apply
    the cross-border MIF. The ruling does not prevent MasterCard and
    its member banks from adopting an alternative MIF arrangement
    that can be proven to comply with EU Competition rules. Although
    the Commission s investigation included commercial cards,
    it has reserved judgment for the time being on the legality of
    MasterCard s cross-border MIF for commercial card
    transactions. MasterCard lodged an appeal against the
    Commission s findings, which is pending. An interim
    settlement, pending the appeal, was agreed to in 2009 between
    the Commission and MasterCard, capping MIF at 30 basis
    points for consumer card transactions and 20 basis points
    for debit card transactions.

In 2002, the Commission granted an exemption to Visa regarding
    its MIFs for cross-border consumer card transactions within
    Europe. This exemption expired on December 31, 2007 and in
    March 2008 the Commission opened formal antitrust proceedings
    against Visa Europe Limited in relation to Visa s MIFs for
    such transactions. The Commission indicated that the MasterCard
    decision should  provide Visa with guidance for the way
    ahead,  although it stated that  every MIF must be
    examined on its own merits.  In 2010, the Commission
    accepted Visa Europe s pledge to cut its cross-border debit
    card MIF to 20 basis points for four years. The
    Commission s investigation into Visa Europe s credit
    and deferred debit card MIF for cross-border transactions
    remains ongoing.

Developments at the EU level may affect how the competition
    authorities in the Member States of the EU view domestic
    interchange and the progress of ongoing investigations. In 2007,
    for example, consistent with the Commission s findings of
    that year in its case against MasterCard, the competition
    regulator in Poland found insufficient basis for Visa and
    MasterCard interchange fees and ordered the associations and
    their members to stop their current interchange setting
    practices. However, the banks appealed that decision, and in
    November 2008 the decision was overturned. The Polish
    Competition Authority has appealed that ruling. More recently,
    the Office of Fair Trading in the United Kingdom indicated that
    it was delaying further consideration of its cases against
    MasterCard and Visa pending the outcome of the appeal of the
    European Commission s decision against MasterCard.

In 2010, national parliaments in Hungary and France enacted
    legislation to cap interchange fees or point of sale service
    charges without government sponsorship for these measures.
    Although in both cases the legislation has been either repealed
    or struck down on procedural grounds, it is possible there may
    be further attempts to enact regulation of merchant fees or
    interchange with direct or indirect impacts on American Express.

In August 2009, Visa and MasterCard settled an anti-trust case
    with the New Zealand regulatory authorities regarding whether
    the setting of interchange rates constituted price fixing and
    whether other scheme rules lessened competition. The settlement
    results in changes to the Visa and MasterCard scheme rules,
    which will set maximum interchange rates and also allow
    bilateral setting of lower interchange rates between issuers and
    acquirers, as well as remove the schemes  no surcharging
    rules. On April 17, 2010, each of the schemes released
    their maximum interchange rates. It is difficult to assess at
    this time the extent to which the changes to interchange could
    adversely impact our revenues and profitability in New Zealand.

Regulators have also considered network rules that prohibit
    merchants from surcharging card purchases. In Australia, we have
    seen selective, but increasing, merchant surcharging on our
    Cards in certain industries

16

Table of Contents   

and, in some cases, on a basis that is greater than that applied
    to cards issued on the bankcard networks. The member states of
    the European Economic Area have now implemented a relatively new
    legislative framework for electronic payment services, including
    cards, called the European Directive 2007/64/EC on payment
    services. This directive, commonly referred to as the Payment
    Services Directive, prescribes common rules for licensing and
    supervision of payment services providers, including card
    issuers and merchant acquirers, and for their conduct of
    business with customers. The objective of the Payment Services
    Directive is to facilitate the operation of a single internal
    payments market in the EU through harmonization of EU Member
    State laws governing payment services. One provision of the
    Payment Services Directive permits merchants to surcharge,
    subject to disclosure requirements, but also allows individual
    Member States to override this rule by prohibiting or limiting
    surcharging. To date, the member states of the European Economic
    Area are split on whether they prohibit or permit surcharging,
    with countries such as the United Kingdom (which for a number of
    years has permitted it for credit card purchases), the
    Netherlands and Spain permitting it, in some cases within
    limits, and other countries such as France, Italy and Sweden
    prohibiting it. All member states permit discounts. The Payment
    Services Directive complements another European initiative, the
    Single Euro Payments Area ( SEPA ), which is an
    industry-led initiative with support from EU institutions. Among
    other changes, SEPA involves the adoption of new, pan-European
    technical standards for cards and card transactions. All of the
    foregoing requires significant costs to implement and maintain.

The Canadian Competition Bureau has commenced an application
    against Visa and MasterCard under the price maintenance
    provisions of the Canadian Competition Act seeking a remedial
    order prohibiting Visa and MasterCard from entering into,
    enforcing or imposing terms that restrain merchants from certain
    business practices, including encouraging use of lower cost
    methods of payment and discouraging use of credit cards with
    higher card acceptance fees, declining acceptance of certain
    credit cards and surcharging customers who use Visa and
    MasterCard credit cards. While the Competition Bureau did not
    name American Express in its application, this action evidences
    the strong regulatory and judicial focus on this area, which
    could have indirect implications for American Express.

The Canadian Department of Finance requires Amex Bank of Canada
    as well as other payment networks, issuers and acquirers to
    adhere to the Code of Conduct for the Credit and Debit Card
    Industry in Canada which among other things requires increased
    transparency and disclosure of fees in merchant agreements and
    monthly statements, requires 90 days notice of merchant fee
    increases or introduction of new fees and gives merchants the
    right to cancel their contract without penalty after receiving
    such notice, allows differential discounting by merchants
    between forms of payment and payment networks and requires that
    merchants provide their express consent to accept new products
    or services.

U.S. CARD
    SERVICES  

As a significant part of our proprietary Card-issuing business,
    our U.S. banking subsidiaries, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB,
    issue a wide range of Card products and services to consumers
    and small businesses in the United States. Our consumer travel
    business, which provides travel services to Cardmembers and
    other consumers, complements our core Card business, as does our
    Global Payment Options business.

The proprietary Card business offers a broad set of card
    products to attract our target customer base. As we continue to
    focus on premium products, the Company s priority will be
    to drive billed business and average spend per card rather than
    achieve broad growth in
     cards-in-force. 
    Core elements of our strategy are:

focusing on acquiring and retaining high-spending, creditworthy
    Cardmembers

designing Card products with features that appeal to specific
    customer segments

using strong incentives to drive spending on our various Card
    products, including our Membership
    Rewards   

    program and other rewards features

using loyalty programs such as Delta SkyMiles, sponsored by our
    co-brand and other partners to drive spending

developing and nurturing wide-ranging relationships with
    co-brand and other partners

17

Table of Contents   

promoting and using incentives for Cardmembers to use their
    Cards in new and expanded merchant categories, including
    everyday spend and traditional cash and check categories

providing exceptional customer service.

In August 2010, J.D. Power and Associates released its
    annual nationwide credit card satisfaction study and ranked
    American Express highest in overall satisfaction among 10 of the
    largest card issuers in the United States, for the fourth
    consecutive year.

Consumer and
    Small Business Services

We offer individual consumer charge Cards such as the American
    Express   

    Card, the American
    Express   

    Gold Card, the Platinum
    Card   ,

    and the
    Centurion   

    Card, as well as the
    ZYNC   

    Card from American Express; revolving credit Cards such as Blue
    from American
    Express   ,

    Blue
    Cash   

    Card from American Express, Blue Sky from American
    Express  sm  ,

    and Blue Sky Preferred from American
    Express  sm  ;

    and a variety of Cards sponsored by and co-branded with other
    corporations and institutions, such as the Delta
    SkyMiles   

    Credit Card from American Express,
    True-Earnings   

    Card exclusively for Costco members, Starwood Preferred
    Guest   

    Credit Card and JetBlue Card from American Express.

Centurion
    Bank and AEBFSB as Issuers of Certain Cards  

We have two U.S. bank subsidiaries, Centurion Bank and
    AEBFSB, which are wholly owned subsidiaries of TRS. Each bank is
    an FDIC insured depository institution. The activities of
    Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are subject to examination by their
    respective regulators. Both banks take steps to maintain
    compliance programs to address the various safety and soundness,
    internal control and compliance requirements, including
    anti-money laundering requirements that apply to them. You can
    find a further discussion of the anti-money laundering
    initiatives affecting us under  Corporate  
    Other  below.

Certain additional information regarding each bank is set forth
    in the table below:

Centurion Bank 

AEBFSB 

Type of Bank 

Utah-chartered industrial bank

Federal savings bank

Regulatory Supervision 

Regulated, supervised and regularly examined by the Utah
    Department of Financial Institutions and the FDIC

Regulated, supervised and regularly examined by the OTS, a
    bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, until
    July 21, 2011*; thereafter regulated, supervised and
    regularly examined by the OCC, a bureau of the U.S. Department
    of the Treasury.

Types of cards issued 

Consumer credit cards 
        Consumer charge cards

Consumer credit cards (including all
    Co-brand credit cards) 
        Consumer charge cards 
        All
    OPEN   

    credit cards and charge cards

Marketing methods 

Primarily direct mail and other remote marketing channels

Direct mail and other remote marketing
    channels 
        In-person selling and third-party
    co-brand partners

Risk-based capital adequacy requirements**, based on Tier One
    risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and Tier One core
    capital ratios at December 31, 2010 

Well capitalized

Well capitalized***

18

Table of Contents   

*  

July 21, 2011 is the  transfer date  of the
    OTS s supervisory responsibility for federal savings banks
    to the OCC under Section 311 of Dodd-Frank. The Treasury
    Secretary may extend the transfer date for up to six additional
    months upon finding that an orderly implementation process is
    not feasible by July 21, 2011. 

**  

The risk-based capital standards for both the FDIC and OTS are
    substantively identical. Currently, a bank generally is deemed
    to be well capitalized if it maintains a Tier One
    risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, a total risk-based
    capital ratio of at least 10% and a leverage ratio of at least
    5%. For further discussion regarding capital adequacy, including
    changes to capital adequacy rules, please see  Supervision
    and Regulation   General   Capital
    Adequacy  beginning on page 41. 

***  

Since January 2009, AEBFSB has committed to maintain a Total
    capital ratio of no less than 15%. 

Charge
    Cards  

Our charge Cards, which generally carry no preset spending
    limits, are primarily designed as a method of payment and not as
    a means of financing purchases of goods or services. Charges are
    approved based on a variety of factors including a
    Cardmember s current spending patterns, payment history,
    credit record, and financial resources. Cardmembers generally
    must pay the full amount billed each month, and no finance
    charges are assessed on the balance. Charge Card accounts that
    are past due are subject, in most cases, to a delinquency
    assessment and, if not brought to current status, may be
    cancelled. The no preset-spending limit and
     pay-in-full 
    nature of these products attract high-spending Cardmembers.

The charge Cards also offer several ways for eligible U.S.
    Cardmembers to pay off certain of their purchases over time. The
    Sign  
    Travel   

    Feature permits eligible U.S. Cardmembers to extend payment
    for airline tickets, cruise ship tickets and other travel
    charges purchased with our charge Cards. The Extended Payment
    Option permits eligible U.S. Cardmembers to extend payment
    for eligible charges above a certain dollar amount.

As part of our effort to deliver additional value for existing
    Cardmembers and to attract new high-spending customers to
    American Express, we launched in 2010 the following three new
    benefits for our Platinum
    Card   

    and Centurion
    Card   

    that will provide our consumer and
    OPEN   

    Cardmembers with improved value and service while traveling:

a $200 airline fee credit that allows Cardmembers to enroll and
    receive up to $200 annually on incidental fees on their airline
    of choice

a 20% travel bonus benefit that gives back to Cardmembers 20% of
    the points they redeem for travel when they use Membership
    Rewards   

    Pay With Points

a special version of the new American Express Travel iphone
    application.

We also announced in December 2010 that we will eliminate
    foreign currency transaction fees for U.S. consumer and
    small business Cardmembers who make international purchases with
    their Platinum
    Cards   

    or
    Centurion   

    Cards, which is expected to be effective towards the end of the
    first quarter of 2011.

In September 2010, we also announced that Continental Airlines
    will no longer participate in the Airport Club Access program
    for Centurion and Platinum Cardmembers or the Membership Rewards
    points transfer program as of October 1, 2011. However,
    Cardmembers will still be able to redeem points for travel on
    Continental
    Airlines   

    through Membership Rewards Pay with
    Points   .

    While Continental Airlines was a significant participant in the
    Airport Club Access Program and key redemption partner in our
    Membership Rewards points transfer program, we continue to
    strengthen our relationships with our Cardmembers by enhancing
    the value we provide through our premium offerings and benefits,
    including those listed above.

In May 2010, we launched the
    ZYNC   

    Card from American Express, a new charge Card with a low annual
    fee of $25. Cardmembers get core charge Card features and
    protections on the base card with the added flexibility to
    select bundles of rewards and benefits called  Packs 
    that are tailored to specific lifestyle interests and spending
    habits in categories such as music, fashion, food, travel and
    more.

19

Table of Contents   

Revolving
    Credit Cards  

We offer a variety of revolving credit Cards. These Cards have a
    range of different payment terms, interest rate and fee
    structures, rewards programs and Cardmember benefits. Revolving
    credit Card products, such as Blue from American Express, Blue
    Cash from American Express and Blue Sky from American Express,
    provide Cardmembers with the flexibility to pay their bill in
    full each month or carry a monthly balance on their Cards to
    finance the purchase of goods or services. Along with charge
    Cards and co-brand Cards, these revolving credit Cards attract
    affluent Cardmembers and promote increased relevance for our
    expanding merchant network.

In 2010, we launched Blue Sky Preferred from American Express,
    which offers double Blue
    Sky  sm  

    points on hotel, dining and car rental purchases which can be
    redeemed towards travel anywhere, anytime, on any airline with
    no blackout dates or restrictions. In addition, Cardmembers
    receive an annual $100 Airline Allowance for use on airline
    incidental fees (e.g., checked baggage fees, in-flight meals,
    etc.). Blue Sky
    Preferred  sm  

    Card is the first proprietary lending product in the Blue Card
    family with an annual fee, diversifying the revenue streams of
    this portfolio.

Co-brand
    Cards  

We issue Cards under co-brand agreements with selected
    commercial firms in the United States. The competition among
    card issuers and networks for attractive co-brand card
    partnerships is quite intense because these partnerships can
    generate high-spending loyal cardholders. The duration of our
    co-brand arrangements generally ranges from five to ten years.
    Cardmembers earn rewards provided by the partners 
    respective loyalty programs based upon their spending on the
    co-brand Cards, such as frequent flyer miles, hotel loyalty
    points and cash back. We make payments to our co-brand partners,
    which can be significant, based primarily on the amount of
    Cardmember spending and corresponding rewards earned on such
    spending and, under certain arrangements, on the number of
    accounts acquired and retained. We expense amounts due under
    co-brand arrangements in the month earned. Payment terms vary by
    arrangement, but are monthly or quarterly. Generally, once we
    make payment to the co-brand partner, the partner is solely
    liable for providing rewards to the Cardmember under the
    co-brand partner s own loyalty program. As the issuer of
    the co-brand Card, we retain all the credit risk with the
    Cardmember and bear the receivables funding and operating
    expenses for such Cards. The co-brand partner retains the risk
    associated with the miles, points or other currency earned by
    the Cardmember under the partner s loyalty program.

During 2010, we introduced several new innovations to our
    existing products. For example, we launched the First Bag Free
    benefit which allows Gold, Platinum and Reserve Delta SkyMiles
    Credit Card Cardmembers to check their first bag for free on
    Delta Air Lines operated flights. We also launched two new
    benefits on the Starwood Preferred Guest Credit Card and the
    Starwood Preferred Guest Business Credit Card that provides a 5
    night / 2 stay credit so Cardmembers earn elite status
    faster and an exclusive Sheraton Hotels and Resorts offer.

Co-brand
    Partnerships with Financial Services Institutions  

We also issue Cards that are marketed under co-brand partnership
    arrangements with financial services partners. Such partnerships
    involve the offering of a standard product (issued by TRS or one
    of its subsidiaries) to customers of the financial services
    partner, generally co-branded with the partner s name on
    the Card. Under these arrangements, we may make payments to the
    financial services partners that are primarily based on the
    number of accounts acquired
     and/or 
    retained through the arrangement
     and/or  the
    amount of Cardmember spending on such Cards. The duration of
    such arrangements generally ranges from three to seven years.

Card
    Pricing and Account Management  

Certain Cards, particularly charge Cards, charge an annual fee
    that varies based on the type of Card and the number of Cards
    for each account. We also offer many revolving credit Cards with
    no annual fee but on which we assess finance charges for
    revolving balances. Depending on the product, we also charge

20

Table of Contents   

Cardmembers an annual program fee to participate in the
    Membership Rewards programs and fees for account performance
    (e.g., late fees) or for certain services (e.g., additional
    copies of account statements). We apply standards and criteria
    for creditworthiness to each Cardmember through a variety of
    means both at the time of initial solicitation or application
    and on an ongoing basis during the Card relationship. We use
    sophisticated credit models and techniques in our risk
    management operations. For a further description of our risk
    management policies, please see  Risk Management 
    appearing on page 48 of our 2010 Annual Report to
    Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by
    reference.

Membership
    Rewards   

    Program  

The Membership Rewards program from American Express allows
    Cardmembers to earn one point for virtually every dollar charged
    on eligible, enrolled American Express Cards, and then redeem
    points for a wide array of rewards, including travel, retail
    merchandise, dining and entertainment, financial services and
    even donations to benefit tens of thousands of charities. Points
    generally have no expiration date and there is no limit on the
    number of points one can earn. A large majority of spending by
    eligible Cardmembers earns points under this program.

The U.S. Membership Rewards program has over 150 redemption
    partners and features over 500 merchandise brands. Membership
    Rewards program tiers are aligned with specific Card products to
    better meet Cardmember lifestyle and reward program usage needs.
    American Express Cardmembers participate in one of three
    Membership Rewards program tiers based on the Credit or Charge
    Card they have in their wallet. For those Cardmembers with
    American Express Cards, such as Blue from American Express and
    ZYNC from American Express, we have the Membership Rewards
    Express   

    program. American Express Charge Cardmembers with American
    Express Green and Gold Cards have the Membership
    Rewards   

    program. Platinum
    Card   

    members and
    Centurion   

    Cardmembers are enrolled in the Membership Rewards
    First   

    program.

During the year, we enhanced our Membership
    Rewards   

    program with the introduction of new reward options designed to
    meet customer demand and provide Cardmembers with greater
    breadth and variety as well as utility. For example, we launched
    a new benefit that allows Membership Rewards points to be used
    for purchases on Amazon.com at the point of sale. In addition to
    this redemption option at Amazon, we have added a number of new
    partners to the program that give Cardmembers a broader range of
    opportunities to redeem points, such as Universal Studios Theme
    Parks, Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts, Victoria s Secret,
    Ruby Tuesday and Zynga. In addition, Cardmembers now have the
    ability to pay for their annual membership fee with Membership
    Rewards points. We believe our Membership Rewards point bank is
    a substantial asset and a competitive advantage, and is moving
    towards becoming a valued virtual currency.

When a Cardmember enrolled in the Membership Rewards program
    uses the Card, we establish reserves to cover the cost of
    estimated future reward redemptions for points earned to date.
    When a Membership Rewards program enrollee redeems a reward
    using Membership Rewards points, we make a payment to the
    Membership Rewards program partner providing the reward pursuant
    to contractual arrangements. Membership Rewards expense is
    driven by Cardmember charge volume, customer participation in
    the program, and contractual arrangements with redemption
    partners. At year end, we estimated that current Cardmembers
    will ultimately redeem approximately 90% of their points. For
    more information on our Membership Rewards program, see
     Critical Accounting Policies   Reserves for
    Membership Rewards Costs  appearing on page 25 of our
    2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Membership Rewards continues to be an important driver of
    Cardmember spending and loyalty. We believe, based on historical
    experience, that Cardmembers enrolled in rewards programs yield
    higher spend, stronger credit performance and greater profit for
    us. By offering a broader range of redemption choices, we

21

Table of Contents   

have given our Cardmembers more flexibility in the use of their
    rewards points and have favorably affected our average cost per
    point. We continually seek to optimize the overall economics of
    the program and make changes to enhance its value to
    Cardmembers. Our program is also valuable to merchants that
    become redemption partners as we bring them high-spending
    Cardmembers and new marketing channels to reach these
    Cardmembers.

Cardmember
    Special Services and Programs  

Throughout the world, our Cardmembers have access to a variety
    of fee-free and fee-based special services and programs,
    depending on the type of Cards they have. Examples of these
    special services and programs include:

the Membership
    Rewards   

    program

Automatic Flight Insurance

Premium Return Protection

Premium Baggage Protection

Global
    Assist   

    Hotline

CreditSecure   

Extended Warranty

Account Protector

Car Rental Loss and Damage Insurance Plan

Online Fraud Protection Guarantee

Purchase Protection Plan

Credit Card Registry

Emergency Card Replacement

My Free Credit Score and Report

Return Protection

Identity Theft Assistance

Manage Your Card Account Online

Event Ticket Protection Plan

Online Year-End Summary

Platinum Office Program

American Express Roadside Assistance Services

Online Money Manager

American Express Bill
    Pay   

Exclusive Access to Cardmember Events

Advanced Ticket Sales

OPEN  

In addition to our U.S. Consumer Card business, through
    AEBFSB we are also a leading provider of financial services to
    small businesses (generally, firms with less than
    100 employees
     and/or 
    annual sales up to $10 million). American Express OPEN
    ( OPEN ) offers small business owners a wide range of
    tools, services and savings designed to meet their evolving
    needs, including:

charge and credit cards

fee-based business solutions to help everyday business
    operations such as
    AcceptPay   ,

    InsuranceEdge  sm  

    and SearchManager

rewards on eligible spend and business relevant redemptions

retail and travel protections such as purchase protection and
    baggage insurance

travel services

3% 10% or more discounts at select suppliers of travel,
    business services, and products through OPEN
    Savings   

expense management reporting

enhanced online account management capabilities

resources to help grow and manage a business through the award
    winning community-driven website, OPEN
    Forum   

All American Express
    OPEN   

    Cardmembers are automatically enrolled in OPEN
    Savings   ,

    a program that offers discounts for all OPEN customers on travel
    and other major business expenses simply by using their American
    Express OPEN Card at participating companies. These savings may
    be combined with any existing discounts or offers.

22

Table of Contents   

Some of the highlights of our OPEN business in 2010 include:

Launch of InsuranceEdge, an integrated solution designed to help
    small business owners research, review, compare and purchase
    commercial insurance appropriate for their business needs.

Launch of SearchManager, a solution that simplifies the way
    business owners can manage their online advertising campaigns.

Launch of a new mobile platform for OPEN Forum.

Expansion of the OPEN Savings program through new partnerships
    with AirTran Airways, OfficeMax, Hewlett Packard and Firedog
    tech support.

Launch and development of the first ever Small Business
    Saturday  sm  ,

    a day to support local businesses that create jobs, boost the
    economy and preserve neighborhoods around the country by
    providing an incentive for Cardmembers to spend at their local
    businesses.

Expansion of OPEN for Government Contracts: Victory in
    Procurement   

    (VIP) for Small Business by holding proprietary events across
    the U.S. designed to help business owners access government
    contracts as a means to grow their business.

Card-Issuing
    Business   Competition  

Our proprietary Card business encounters substantial and intense
    competition in the United States and internationally. As a card
    issuer, we compete in the United States with financial
    institutions (such as Citibank, Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase,
    and Capital One Financial) that issue general-purpose charge and
    revolving credit cards, and Discover Financial Services, which
    issues the Discover Card on the Discover Business Services
    network. We also encounter competition from businesses that
    issue their own cards or otherwise extend credit to their
    customers, such as retailers and airline associations, although
    these cards are generally accepted only at limited locations.
    Because of continuing consolidations among banking and financial
    services companies and credit card portfolio acquisitions by
    major card issuers, there are now a smaller number of
    significant issuers. The largest competing issuers have
    continued to grow, in several cases by acquiring card
    portfolios, and also by cross-selling through their retail
    branch networks.

In recent years, we have encountered increasingly intense
    competition in the small business sector, as competitors have
    targeted OPEN s customer base and our leadership position
    in providing financial services and other fee-based solutions to
    small businesses. Competing card issuers offer a variety of
    products and services to attract cardholders, including premium
    cards with enhanced services or lines of credit, airline
    frequent flyer program mileage credits, cash rebates and other
    reward or rebate programs, services for small business owners,
     teaser  promotional interest rates for both credit
    card acquisition and balance transfers, and co-branded
    arrangements with partners that offer benefits to cardholders.

Most financial institutions that offer demand deposit accounts
    also issue debit cards to permit depositors to access their
    funds. Use of debit cards for
     point-of-sale 
    purchases has grown as most financial institutions have replaced
    ATM cards with general-purpose debit cards bearing either the
    Visa or MasterCard logo. As a result, the purchase volume and
    number of transactions made with debit cards in the United
    States has grown more rapidly than credit and charge card
    transactions. Debit cards were marketed as replacements for cash
    and checks, and transactions made with debit cards have
    typically been for smaller dollar amounts. There is no credit
    extended when a debit card is used and the consumer must have
    sufficient funds in his or her demand deposit account to pay for
    the purchase at the time of the transaction as opposed to charge
    cards where payment is due at the end of the billing period or
    credit cards where payment can be extended over a period of
    time. However, debit cards are also perceived as an alternative
    to credit or charge cards and used in that manner. We do not
    offer a debit card linked to a deposit account, but we do issue
    various types of prepaid cards. As the payments industry
    continues to evolve, we are also facing increasing competition
    from non-traditional players, such as online networks, telecom
    providers, or software-as-a-service providers that leverage new
    technologies and customers  existing charge and credit card
    accounts and bank relationships to create payment or other
    fee-based solutions. In addition, the evolution of payment
    products in emerging markets may

23

Table of Contents   

be different than it has been in developed markets. Instead of
    migrating from cash to checks to plastic, technology and
    consumer behaviors in these markets may result in the skipping
    of one or more steps to alternative payment mechanisms such as
    mobile payments. For a further discussion of the evolving
    competitive landscape in the payments industry, please see
      Global Network   Merchant
    Services Competition   beginning on page 13
    above.

The principal competitive factors that affect the card-issuing
    business include:

features and the quality of the services, including rewards
    programs, provided to Cardmembers

the number, spending characteristics and credit performance of
    Cardmembers

the quantity, diversity, and quality of the establishments that
    accept Cards

the cost of Cards to Cardmembers

pricing, payment and other Card account terms and conditions

the number and quality of other payment cards and other forms of
    payment available to Cardmembers

the nature and quality of expense management data capture and
    reporting capability

the success of targeted marketing and promotional campaigns

reputation and brand recognition

the ability of issuers to manage credit and interest rate risk
    throughout the economic cycle

the ability of issuers to implement operational and cost
    efficiencies

the quality of customer service.

Financing
    Activities  

The Company meets its financing needs through a variety of
    sources, including cash or assets that are readily convertible
    into cash, direct and third-party distributed deposits,
    unsecured medium- and long-term notes, asset securitizations,
    securitized borrowings through a conduit facility and long-term
    committed bank borrowing facilities in certain
     non-U.S. markets. 

American Express Credit Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary
    of TRS, along with its subsidiaries ( Credco ),
    acquires or finances the majority of charge Card receivables
    arising from the use of corporate Cards issued in the United
    States and consumer and corporate Cards issued in certain
    currencies outside the United States. Credco funds the
    acquisition or financing of receivables principally through the
    sale of medium- and long-term notes. Centurion Bank and AEBFSB
    finance their revolving credit receivables and consumer and
    small business charge card receivables, in part, through the
    sale of medium-term notes and by offering consumer deposits in
    the United States. TRS, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB also fund
    receivables through asset securitization programs. The cost of
    funding Cardmember receivables and loans is a major expense of
    Card operations.

(You can find a discussion of our securitization and other
    financing activities on pages 41-44 under the caption
     Financial Review,  and Note 7 on
    pages 85-87 of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders,
    which portions we incorporate herein by reference.) In addition,
    please see   Difficult conditions in the global capital
    markets and economy generally, as well as political conditions
    in the United States and elsewhere, may materially adversely
    affect our business and results of operations   and
      Adverse capital and credit market conditions may
    significantly affect the Company s ability to meet
    liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital  
    in  Item 1A Risk Factors  below.

Deposit
    Programs  

Our banking subsidiaries offer deposits to individuals through
    third-party brokerage networks as well as directly to consumers.
    As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    $29.7 billion in total consumer

24

Table of Contents   

deposits. The majority of the Company s outstanding
    U.S. retail deposits have been raised through third-party
    channels. As part of its funding strategy, a majority of the
    deposits raised during 2010 were sourced directly by the Company
    with consumers through Personal Savings from American Express.
    Our deposit-taking activities compete with other deposit-taking
    organizations that source deposits through telephone, internet
    and other electronic delivery channels, brokerage networks,
     and/or 
    through branch locations. We compete primarily in the deposit
    sectors on the basis of rates and our brand reputation for
    safety and service. We seek to obtain the deposits of new
    customers as well as existing card customers by offering
    attractive rates and marketing our name brand.

Our ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive
    interest rates on deposits also is dependent on capital levels
    of our bank subsidiaries. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act
    ( FDIA ) generally prohibits a bank, including our
    banking subsidiaries, from accepting brokered deposits or
    offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher
    than the prevailing rate in its normal market area or nationally
    (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless
    (1) it is well capitalized or (2) it is adequately
    capitalized and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A bank that is
    less than well capitalized generally may not pay an interest
    rate on any deposit, including
     direct-to-consumer 
    deposits, in excess of 75 basis points over the national
    rate published by the FDIC unless the FDIC determines that the
    bank is operating in a high-rate area. An adequately capitalized
    insured depository institution may not accept, renew or roll
    over any brokered deposit unless it has applied for and been
    granted a waiver of this prohibition by the FDIC.
    Undercapitalized depository institutions may not solicit
    deposits by offering interest rates that are significantly
    higher than the prevailing rates of interest on insured deposits
    in such institution s normal market areas or in the market
    area in which such deposits would otherwise be accepted. There
    are no such restrictions on a bank that is well capitalized
    (provided such bank is not subject to a capital maintenance
    provision within a written agreement, consent order, order to
    cease and desist, capital directive, or prompt corrective action
    directive issued by its federal regulator). If a depository
    institution s federal regulator determines that it is in an
    unsafe or unsound condition or is engaging in unsafe or unsound
    banking practices, the regulator may reclassify a well
    capitalized institution as adequately capitalized, require an
    adequately capitalized institution to comply with certain
    restrictions as if it were undercapitalized, and require an
    undercapitalized institution to take certain actions applicable
    to significantly undercapitalized institutions, all of which
    would adversely impact its ability to accept brokered deposits.

Card-Issuing
    Business   Regulation  

The charge card and consumer lending businesses are subject to
    extensive regulation. In the United States, we are subject to a
    number of federal laws and regulations, including:

the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (which generally prohibits
    discrimination in the granting and handling of credit)

the Fair Credit Reporting Act ( FCRA ), as amended by
    the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act ( FACT
    Act ) (which, among other things, regulates use by
    creditors of consumer credit reports and credit prescreening
    practices and requires certain disclosures when an application
    for credit is rejected)

the Truth in Lending Act ( TILA ) (which, among other
    things, requires extensive disclosure of the terms upon which
    credit is granted), including the amendments to TILA that were
    adopted through the enactment of the Fair Credit and Charge Card
    Disclosure Act (which mandates certain disclosures on credit and
    charge card applications)

the Fair Credit Billing Act (which, among other things,
    regulates the manner in which billing inquiries are handled and
    specifies certain billing requirements)

the Electronic Funds Transfer Act (which regulates disclosures
    and settlement of transactions for electronic funds transfers
    including those at ATMs)

the CARD Act (which prohibits certain acts and practices in
    connection with consumer credit card accounts)

25

Table of Contents   

The Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (Title X of
    Dodd Frank) (which provides for the creation of the
    Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a new consumer financial
    services regulator)

Regulation Z (which was recently amended by the Federal
    Reserve to extensively revise the open end consumer credit
    disclosure requirements and to implement the requirements of the
    CARD Act)

federal and state laws and regulations that generally prohibit
    engaging in unfair and deceptive business practices.

Certain federal privacy-related laws and regulations govern the
    collection and use of customer information by financial
    institutions (see  Corporate   Other 
    below). Federal legislation also regulates abusive debt
    collection practices. In addition, a number of states, the
    European Union, and many foreign countries in which we operate
    have significant consumer credit protection and disclosure and
    privacy-related laws (in certain cases more stringent than the
    laws of the United States). Bankruptcy and debtor relief laws
    affect us to the extent that such laws result in amounts owed
    being classified as delinquent
     and/or 
    charged off as uncollectible. As stated above, card issuers and
    card networks are subject to certain provisions of the Bank
    Secrecy Act as amended by the Patriot Act, with regard to
    maintaining effective anti-money laundering programs. For a
    discussion of these and other regulations and legislation that
    impact our business, please see  Supervision and
    Regulation   General  within
     Corporate   Other  below.

American Express Company and its subsidiaries, including in
    particular Centurion Bank, AEBFSB and our other bank entities,
    are subject to a variety of laws and regulations applicable to
    financial institutions. Changes in such laws and regulations or
    in the regulatory application or judicial interpretation thereof
    could impact the manner in which we conduct our business and the
    costs of compliance. The regulatory environment in which our
    Card and lending businesses operate has become increasingly
    complex and robust, and following the financial crisis of 2008,
    supervisory efforts to apply relevant laws, regulations and
    policies have become more intense. The U.S. Congress and
    regulators, as well as various consumer advocacy groups, have
    continued to focus their attention on certain practices of
    credit card issuers, such as unfair and deceptive business
    practices, increases in annual percentage rates
    ( APRs ), changes in the terms of the account, and the
    types and levels of fees and financial charges charged by card
    issuers for, among other things, late payments, returned checks,
    payments by telephone, copies of statements and the like. In
    August 2010, AEBFSB entered into a public, written supervisory
    agreement with the OTS, its primary federal banking regulator,
    requiring AEBFSB to make certain enhancements to its compliance
    program and to complete certain corrective actions relating to
    compliance. We regularly review and, as appropriate, refine our
    business practices in light of existing and anticipated
    developments in laws, regulations and industry trends so we can
    continue to manage our business prudently and consistent with
    regulatory requirements and expectations. For information about
    the recently enacted CARD Act, please see  Privacy, Fair
    Credit Reporting  within  Supervision and
    Regulatory   General  below beginning on
    page 48.

In January 2003, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination
    Council (the  FFIEC ), an interagency body composed of
    the principal U.S. federal entities that regulate banks and
    other financial institutions, issued new guidance to the
    industry on credit card account management and loss allowance
    practices (the  Guidance ). The Guidance covers five
    areas: (i) credit line management; (ii) over-limit
    practices; (iii) minimum payment and negative amortization
    practices; (iv) workout and forbearance practices; and
    (v) certain income (fee) recognition and loss allowance
    practices. The Guidance is generally applicable to all
    institutions under the supervision of the federal bank
    regulatory agencies that comprise the FFIEC, although it is
    primarily the result of the identification by bank regulators in
    their examinations of other credit card lenders  practices
    deemed by them to be inappropriate, particularly, but not
    exclusively, with regard to subprime lending programs. At
    present, we do not have any lending programs that target the
    subprime sector. Centurion Bank and AEBFSB evaluate and discuss
    the Guidance with their respective regulators on an ongoing
    basis as part of their regulatory examination processes, and, as
    a result, may refine their practices from time to time based on
    regulatory input. The Guidance has not had, nor do we expect it
    to have, any material impact on our businesses or practices.

26

Table of Contents   

American
    Express Consumer Travel Network   USA  

The American Express Consumer Travel Network   USA
    provides travel, financial and Cardmember services to consumers
    through American Express-owned travel service offices, call
    centers, participating American Express Representatives
    (independently owned travel agency locations that operate under
    the American Express brand) and the Consumer Travel Web site.
    U.S. Consumer Travel has distinguished itself in the luxury
    segment through its Platinum Travel Services and Centurion
    Travel Services, which service the needs of our premium
    Cardmembers and support the exclusive travel benefits that we
    provide for them. These exclusive travel benefits include the
    International Airline Program, which offers international first-
    and or business-class companion tickets on one of 22 world class
    airlines, and the Fine Hotels   Resorts program, which
    is a luxury hotel program offering room upgrades and value-added
    amenities.

During 2010, we also introduced new travel benefits for Platinum
    and Centurion Cardmembers, an American Express mobile
    application to keep travelers informed with flight alerts and an
    airport lounge locator. Other premium programs developed by
    Consumer Travel for
    Centurion   

    Card and Platinum
    Card   

    members include the Cruise Privileges Program, Destinations
    Vacations Program and the Private Jet Services Program. Consumer
    Travel also provides other value-added programs such as Gold
    Card Destinations, a collection of travel benefits exclusively
    for Gold Card members, and Destination
    Family   ,

    a set of valuable benefits and offers across cruise, tour,
    hotel, and car rental designed for American Express Card members
    traveling with families. In addition, the Consumer Travel
    business operates a wholesale travel business in the United
    States through our Travel Impressions subsidiary. (A wholesaler
    secures allotments, such as hotel rooms, from suppliers and then
    offers the services to customers at retail prices that the
    wholesaler determines.) Our wholesale travel business manages
    and operates American
    Express   

    Vacations, sold exclusively through the American Express
    Consumer Travel Network in the United States and our Membership
    Travel Services International Group internationally. Travel
    Impressions also distributes travel packages through other
    retail travel agents and private label brands for third parties
    in the United States. Travel Impressions is consistently
    recognized by its customers for outstanding services, including
    being named  Travel Weekly s   Best Tour
    Operator, Sales and Service,  for six years in a row.

Our Consumer Travel Web site, americanexpress.com/travel, offers
    a full range of travel rates and discounts on airfares, hotels,
    car rentals, last-minute deals, cruises and full vacation
    packages. The Web site offers unique American Express Cardmember
    benefits such as an American Express Travel Office locator,
    Travel Specialist finder tools, double Membership
    Rewards   

    points, and travel planning resources and destination content.
    In addition, Cardmembers are able to Pay With Points by
    redeeming Membership Rewards points for some categories of
    travel through our Web site, as well as through our call centers
    and Travel Offices.

In January 2010, we launched americanexpressfhr.com, allowing
    Platinum Cardmembers to book Fine Hotels   Resorts
    online for the first time. The web site provides details on the
    700+ hotels in the program, including hotel overviews, photos,
    room type descriptions, dining and service information, and any
    special offer details. This site offers our Cardmembers another
    option for booking luxury travel with American Express. In 2010,
    Consumer Travel launched a new ad campaign,  Left
    Behind,  highlighting the unique benefits we offer our
    cardmembers and what they miss out on when they don t book
    travel through our Consumer Travel Network. In addition, our
    lodging marketing initiatives focused on the lowest rate
    guarantee for all hotel bookings made through Consumer
    Travel s online site.

American
    Express Consumer Travel Network   USA  
    Competition  

Consumer Travel competes with a variety of different competitors
    including traditional  brick and mortar  travel
    agents, credit card issuers offering products with significant
    travel benefits, online travel agents and travel suppliers that
    distribute their products to consumers directly via the Internet
    or telephone-based customer service centers. In recent years we
    have experienced an increasing presence of  niche 
    players that are seeking to capitalize on the growth in the
    luxury travel segment by combining luxury travel offers with
    concierge-type services.

27

Table of Contents   

INTERNATIONAL
    CARD SERVICES  

We issue our charge and credit Cards in numerous countries
    around the globe. Our geographic scope is widespread and we
    focus primarily on those countries that we believe offer us the
    greatest financial opportunity. For a discussion of Cards issued
    internationally through our GNS partner relationships, please
    see the section  Global Network Services  above.

The Company continued to bolster its international proprietary
    Card business through the launch of numerous new or enhanced
    Card products during 2010. These are Cards that we issue, either
    on our own or as co-brands with partnering institutions. As we
    have renewed many of our co-brand and financial institution
    deals, we have been focused on adding new products, new
    channels, and increasingly, new markets to the agreements. This
    past year, among other new proprietary products, we announced or
    launched several new co-branded products in the International
    Consumer Business, including: a new Platinum co-brand card in
    partnership with Air New Zealand, New Zealand s national
    air carrier; a co-brand Card program with Sol Melia, a luxury
    hotel and resort chain based in Spain; and the new Starwood
    Preferred Guest credit card from American Express in the United
    Kingdom and Canada, offering cardmembers and Starwood Preferred
    Guests program loyalists the opportunity to earn Starpoints on
    virtually all of their card spending. We offer many of the same
    programs and services in our international proprietary
    Card-issuing business as we do in our U.S. proprietary
    issuing business. For example, as in the United States, we offer
    various flexible payment options similar to our Sign  
    Travel   

    program and our Extended Payment Option to Cardmembers in
    several countries outside the U.S. Also, as in the United
    States, we issue Cards internationally under distribution
    agreements with financial services institutions. Another example
    of our distribution partnerships is affinity cards with
    fraternal, professional, educational and other organizations.
    For instance, we have been successful in penetrating the
    affinity card segment in Australia, where we issue Cards with
    the majority of the largest professional associations in that
    country. In Australia, affinity cards are a substantial part of
    our total revolving portfolio and contribute to our proprietary
    consumer lending activities.

As in the United States, the Membership Rewards programs are a
    strong driver of Cardmember spending in the international
    consumer business. We have more than 1,500 redemption partners
    across our international business, with an average of
    approximately 84 partners in each country; approximately 30% of
    these partners are in the travel industry. Cardmembers can
    redeem their points with more than 40 airlines and over 175
    hotels. Our redemption options include travel, retail
    merchandise, entertainment, shopping and recreation gift
    certificates, experiences, financial services and charity
    rewards. In 2010, we continued to enhance our rewards programs
    in several countries, offering more flexible choices that enable
    Cardmembers to redeem Membership Rewards points more quickly.

We continue to build on the Company s strengths and look
    for further opportunities to increase our presence
    internationally. In December 2010, we announced that we entered
    into an agreement to acquire Loyalty Partner, a leading
    marketing services company known for the loyalty programs it
    operates in Germany, Poland and India. Loyalty Partner also
    provides analytics, operating platforms and consulting services
    that help merchants grow their businesses. The acquisition will
    deepen our merchant relationships in select countries, add more
    than 34 million consumers to the company s
    international customer base and expand its range of rewards and
    loyalty marketing services. The acquisition is part of the
    Company s drive to build and diversify its fee service
    revenues and expand its international presence. The purchase,
    which has received regulatory approval, is expected to close in
    the first quarter of 2011. The transaction, which values the
    company at $660 million (subject to currency movement and
    other adjustments), consists of an upfront cash purchase price
    of $566 million and an additional $94 million equity
    interest that the Company will acquire over the next five years
    at a value based on business performance.

Membership Travel Services International provides premium travel
    and concierge services to our Platinum and Centurion Customers,
    through 24 exclusively dedicated call centers in 23
    international countries. Additionally, Membership Travel
    Services operates 16 proprietary Travel Service Offices in
    Mexico, Italy and Argentina to provide all Cardmembers with
    travel and general card service assistance. We also provide to
    our cardmembers certain foreign exchange, travelers cheque
    services and other cardmember-related services in Travel Service
    Offices in Mexico, Argentina and Italy. We have taken steps to
    enhance our capabilities to sell

28

Table of Contents   

exclusively negotiated benefits and luxury travel packages with
    preferred suppliers through the Fine Hotels   Resorts
    Program, American Express Vacations and American Express 
    International Airline Program. Our International Airline
    Program, which is exclusively available to Platinum Card and
    Centurion Cardmembers, allows these Cardmembers to receive
    complimentary companion tickets or a class upgrade when flying
    on qualifying international flights in business or first class.

We expanded the flexibility of payment for travel and concierge
    services by allowing International Consumer Cardmembers to use
    their Membership Rewards points to pay for their travel
    purchases in 15 countries outside the U.S.

International
    Proprietary Consumer Card   Competition  

Compared to the United States, consumers outside the United
    States use general-purpose charge and credit cards for a smaller
    percentage of their total payments, with some large emerging
    market countries just beginning to transition to card usage in
    any meaningful way. Although our geographic scope is widespread,
    we generally do not have significant share in the countries in
    which we operate internationally. Our proprietary Card-issuing
    business is subject to competition from multinational banks,
    such as Citibank, HSBC and Banco Santander, as well as many
    local banks and financial institutions. Globally, we view
    Citibank and Banco Santander as our strongest competitors, as
    they currently offer card products in a large number of
    countries.

International
    Proprietary Consumer Card   Regulation  

As discussed elsewhere in this
     Form 10-K, 
    regulators in 2010 continued to propose and enact a variety of
    regulatory changes to the payments landscape in many of our key
    countries. We expect this activity to continue in 2011.
    Regulators continue to consider developments in the United
    States and other jurisdictions to help inform their policy.
    While the nature of the proposals varies, regulators in a number
    of countries have been focused on pricing, disclosure,
    responsible lending and other card practices and we expect this
    to continue in 2011. For example, in the United Kingdom the
    government adopted a new policy by way of a  white
    paper  setting out several requirements around card
    practices. In the European Economic Area, member states have
    implemented or are in the process of implementing European
    Directive 2008/48/EC on credit agreements for consumers
    (commonly referred to as the Consumer Credit Directive), which
    in some countries will have impacts on charge cards in addition
    to credit cards. Member states have also implemented the Payment
    Services Directive, which regulates the conduct of business of
    payment service providers, including card issuers.

As a consequence, these and perhaps other regulators may
    consider and implement additional card practice regulation in
    2011. We continue to evaluate our business planning in light of
    changing market circumstances and the evolving political,
    economic, regulatory and media environment.

GLOBAL
    COMMERCIAL SERVICES  

In our Global Commercial Services ( GCS ) segment, we
    provide expense management services to companies and
    organizations worldwide through Global Commercial Card and
    Global Business Travel Services. American Express is a leading
    global issuer of commercial cards and is also a leading global
    travel management company for businesses. During 2010, we added
    or retained several major Commercial Card clients in the United
    States and internationally, including Eaton, GlaxoSmithKline,
    Pfizer, Eastman Kodak, PPG, Xerox, Oracle, and McDonalds.
    Additionally, in 2010, we added or retained several American
    Express Business Travel clients in the United States and
    internationally, including: HCSC (Health Care Services); AXA
    Canada LTD.; University of Nottingham; FIS; Automatic Data
    Processing Inc.; Motorola Mobility; and Symantec Corporation.

29

Table of Contents   

GCS offers a wide range of expense management products and
    services to companies worldwide, including:

A comprehensive offering of Corporate Card Programs, such as:

Corporate Cards: issued to individuals through a corporate
    account established by their employer and which many business
    customers use to manage travel and entertainment
    ( T E ) spending

Corporate Meeting Cards: provided primarily to corporate meeting
    planners as a tool to help companies control their meeting and
    event expenses

Business Travel Accounts ( BTA ): centrally billed to
    and paid directly by corporate clients, BTAs can be used by
    companies to pay for their employees  travel expenses

A suite of
     Business-to-Business 
    (or  B2B ) Payment Solutions, including:

Corporate Purchasing Card: an account established by companies
    to pay for everyday and large-ticket business expenses such as
    office and computer supplies

vPayment: provides fast and efficient payment for
    business-related purchases and permits the processing of
    transactions with effective fraud controls

Buyer Initiated Payments: an electronic solution for companies
    looking to automate their payment processes.

American Express Global Business Travel, which helps businesses
    manage and optimize their travel expenses through a variety of
    travel-related products, services and solutions.

Global
    Commercial Card  

Global Commercial Card ( GCC ) offers a range of
    expense management solutions to companies worldwide through our
    Corporate Card Programs and our
     Business-to-Business 
    Payment Solutions.

Corporate
    Card Programs  

The American
    Express   

    Corporate Card is a charge card that individuals may obtain
    through a corporate account established by their employer for
    business purposes. Through our Corporate Card Program, companies
    can manage their T E spending and everyday business
    expenses and improve negotiating leverage with suppliers, among
    other benefits. We use our direct relationships with merchants
    to offer Corporate Card clients superior data about company
    spending, as well as streamlined dispute resolution. We issue
    local currency Corporate Cards in 44 countries and international
    dollar/euro Corporate Cards in 108 countries. We also offer
    Corporate Cards issued through our GNS partner relationships in
    an additional 30 countries. In 2010, we introduced international
    dollar/euro Corporate Cards in an additional 24 countries and
    launched a ruble-based Business Travel Account to Russian
    customers, the first product of its kind in Russian currency.

With the heightened focus on cost containment, many companies
    increasingly are interested in our Corporate Meeting Card
    program, which helps businesses control meeting-related
    expenses. It allows clients to capture meeting spending,
    simplify the payment process, and gain access to data to support
    negotiations with suppliers.

American Express also partners with many other companies around
    the world to offer a number of co-brand Corporate Cards in
    various countries. These products, typically suited for
    mid-sized companies, provide savings on everyday business
    spending
     and/or  air
    travel. To date, American Express has 15 Corporate Card co-brand
    partnerships worldwide. In 2010, we added the American
    Express   

    Cathay Pacific Corporate Card, the first co-branded airline
    corporate card in Hong Kong. We also continued to enhance our
    existing co-brand portfolios through the launch of the American
    Express    / Business

    ExtrAA   

    Corporate Platinum Card in the United States in 2010.

30

Table of Contents   

Business-to-Business 
    Payment Solutions  

We also offer a series of
     Business-to-Business 
    Payment Solutions to help companies manage B2B spending. This
    type of spending by companies helps to diversify our spend mix.
    These solutions provide a variety of benefits to companies,
    including cost savings, process efficiency, improved cash flow
    and increased visibility, and control and security over business
    expenses. The Corporate Purchasing Card helps large corporations
    and mid-sized companies manage their everyday spending. It is
    used to pay for everyday goods and business expenses, such as
    office supplies, industrial supplies and business equipment in
    27 countries around the world.

vPayment, which offers companies single-use virtual account
    numbers, allows GCC customers to make payments with enhanced
    controls, data capture and reconciliation capabilities. Charges
    are authorized for a specified amount during a specified amount
    of time. The solution automates reconciliation, eliminates
    manual check requests, interfaces easily with a customer s
    enterprise resource planning (ERP), procurement and accounts
    payable systems, and can be used at one or more stages of the
     procurement-to-payables 
    process.

Buyer Initiated Payments allows American Express to pay B2B
    suppliers electronically on behalf of our clients, permitting
    them to manage payments, extend their own days payable
    outstanding (or  float ), and increase their cash on
    hand. Buyer Initiated Payments is currently available to
    companies in the United States and will be offered to companies
    in Canada in 2011. This solution is best suited for mid- to
    large-sized companies that want to transition rapidly to
    electronic payments, reduce supplier inquiries, convert from
    paper to electronic payments, and optimize cash flow. In 2010,
    American Express and SAP AG announced an effort to develop an
    integrated corporate payments solution for joint GCC and SAP
    customers in the United States. The solution will integrate
    SAP s software solutions into American Express  Buyer
    Initiated Payments platform to enable
      plug-and-play  
    functionality when integrating Buyer Initiated Payments into the
    client s Enterprise Resource Planning system, thereby
    reducing the roadblocks that often delay or deter companies from
    adopting electronic payments.

Mid-sized
    Companies  

In addition to providing Corporate Card Programs and our
     Business-to-Business 
    Payment Solutions to large and global organizations, GCC markets
    its products and services to mid-sized companies (defined in the
    United States as firms with annual revenues of $10 million
    to $1 billion worldwide). GCC is focused on continuing to
    expand its business with mid-sized companies, which represent
    significant growth opportunities. Businesses of this size often
    do not have a corporate card program. However, once enrolled,
    mid-sized companies typically put a significant portion of their
    business spending on the Corporate Card because they can gain
    control, savings and employee benefits.

In 2010, together with our partner, Concur Technologies Inc., we
    launched Concur Breeze in the United States, a cost-effective
    and
     easy-to-manage 
    online expense reporting service for mid-sized clients that
    automates and streamlines the submission, review, approval and
    departmental allocation of all business expenses. We also
    launched similar versions of this product targeted to mid-sized
    clients in the United Kingdom, Netherlands, Germany and
    Australia in 2010.

GCC offers the Savings at
    Work   

    Program to mid-sized companies in the United States, as well as
    similar programs globally, which provides companies with cash
    back  and/or 
    discounted pricing on everyday business products and services,
    such as car rentals, hotels, restaurants and courier services.
    Corporate Cardmembers can also take advantage of our Membership
    Rewards program to earn points that can be redeemed for air
    travel and hotel stays, as well as retail, home, and recreation
    items. Membership Rewards is a powerful tool for encouraging
    Corporate Card usage, leading to greater control and savings.

Online
    Capabilities  

GCC offers companies and individual cardmembers the ability to
    manage their Corporate Card Programs on a 24/7 basis through a
    suite of secure web-based online tools. American Express @
    Work   

    provides clients  authorized users online access to global
    management information to help them gain visibility into their

31

Table of Contents   

spending patterns, as well as the ability to make changes to
    their Corporate Card, Corporate Purchasing Card, Business Travel
    Account ( BTA ) and Corporate Meeting Card accounts.
    Cardmembers can use the online Manage Your Card Account (MYCA)
    tool to manage their individual Card account.

Global
    Commercial Card Competition  

The commercial payments sector is dynamic and highly
    competitive, with competition increasingly intense at both the
    card network and card issuer levels. At the network level, we
    have experienced increasing competition including intense price
    competition, aggressive expansion into new and emerging
    segments, efforts to transition
     business-to-business 
    spend from cash and check to cards and electronic invoicing and
    payment vehicles, and expanding marketing and advertising
    budgets for commercial services. Both Visa and MasterCard
    continue to support card issuers such as U.S. Bank,
    JPMorgan Chase, and Citibank to build and support data
    collection and reporting necessary to satisfy customer
    requirements. Moreover, in the current economic environment, the
    interest in expense management tools is particularly strong, as
    clients aim to capture data, analyze trends and make decisions
    that enhance their cash flow and profitability. Commercial card
    issuers have increasingly acquired technology offerings to
    enhance data capture capabilities and reporting functionality.
    In addition, many issuers attempt to leverage their banking
    relationships and capabilities to secure and retain card
    business. Global servicing, data quality, technological
    functionality and simplicity, customer experience, and price and
    other financial terms are among the key competitive factors in
    the commercial card business.

Global
    Commercial Card Regulation  

The Global Commercial Card business, which engages in the
    extension of commercial credit, is subject to more limited
    regulation than our consumer lending business. In the United
    States, we are subject to certain of the federal and state laws
    applicable to our consumer lending business, including the Equal
    Credit Opportunity Act, the FCRA (as amended by the FACT Act),
    as well laws that generally prohibit engaging in unfair and
    deceptive business practices. (For a discussion of the FACT Act,
    see  Card-Issuing Business   Regulation .)
    We are also subject to certain state laws that regulate fees and
    charges on our products. Additionally, as a global business, we
    are subject to U.S. state data security and breach
    notification laws and regulations, as well as significant data
    protection laws in the European Union and many foreign countries
    in which we operate. We are also subject to bankruptcy and
    debtor relief laws that can affect our ability to collect
    amounts owed to us. As discussed above, along with the rest of
    our business, we are subject to certain provisions of the Bank
    Secrecy Act as amended by the Patriot Act, with regard to
    maintaining effective anti-money laundering programs. (For a
    discussion of this legislation and its effect on our business,
    see  Supervision and Regulation General  within
     Corporate   Other  below.) In some
    countries, regulation of card practices and consumer protection
    legislation may apply to some commercial card relationships.

Global
    Business Travel  

American Express Global Business Travel ( Global Business
    Travel ) provides globally integrated solutions, both
    online and offline, to help organizations manage and optimize
    their travel investments and service their traveling employees.
    With clients ranging from small businesses to multinational
    corporations, these solutions include travel reservation advice
    and transaction processing through a global network that is
    available 24 hours per day; travel expense management
    policy consultation; meeting management, supplier negotiation
    and consultation; advisory services, management information
    reporting, data analysis and benchmarking; and group and
    incentive travel services.

In 2010, we launched several new programs to support our
    corporate clients. These included the launch of
    aXcentis  sm  

    in key countries globally, which focuses on delivering
    localized, flexible and comprehensive travel management programs
    to small and mid-sized companies with up to $10 million in
    annual travel spending; the entry into a new strategic alliance
    with Concur Technologies Inc., which allows us to offer global
    clients a comprehensive,
     end-to-end 
    corporate travel and expense management program, expanding on
    GCC s pre-existing partnership with Concur; and the launch
    of an online, interactive travel management scorecard to measure
    travel program effectiveness. We continue to evaluate our
    economic model and invest in new products, services and
    technologies to enhance the value that we deliver to our
    customers and address

32

Table of Contents   

ongoing travel industry challenges and opportunities. For
    example, we have substantially reduced our reliance on
    commission revenues from suppliers (such as airlines or hotels),
    and now generate revenues primarily from customers who pay for
    the services that we provide.

These services include solutions designed to provide our clients
    with savings, control, services and traveler care. For example,
    we offer customers savings and benefits through the Preferred
    Extra  sm  

    supplier value programs and advisory services, which provide
    preferred supplier rates and consulting solutions in all areas
    of T E expense management. We also provide comprehensive
    travel expenses insights through global data with our
    aXis@work   

    solution, which provides real time global data through a single
    on-line interface, enabling clients to gain real time visibility
    into their spending patterns and make real time adjustments to
    their programs and policies for maximum bottom line benefit.

In 2010, we further developed our comprehensive cost-saving
    travel management offerings, including products such as
    mobileXtend, a mobile travel solution that provides travelers
    with various support services. Global Business Travel has moved
    many of its business processes and customer servicing online. In
    the United States, approximately 57.5% of all Global Business
    Travel transactions continue to be processed online. In
    addition, the volume of online transactions is growing in other
    countries around the world.

Global
    Business Travel   Competition  

Global Business Travel continues to face intense competition in
    the United States and internationally from numerous traditional
    and online travel management companies, as well as from direct
    sales by airlines and other travel suppliers. Competition among
    travel management companies is mainly based on price, service,
    value creation, convenience, global capabilities and proximity
    to the customer. Competition also comes from corporate customers
    themselves, as some companies have become accredited as in-house
    corporate travel agents. New entrants could also represent
    additional competition along the end to end travel value chain,
    which could impact competition in the medium to long term.

For many years, travel management companies have faced pressure
    on revenues from airlines, as most carriers have stopped paying
     base  commissions to travel agents for tickets sold
    and significantly reduced other forms of travel agent
    compensation. Carriers have also increased the number of
    transactions they book directly through their Web sites and
    other means. These trends have reduced the revenue opportunities
    for travel management companies because they do not receive
    distribution revenue from directly booked transactions. In
    recent years, the airline industry has undergone bankruptcies,
    restructurings, consolidations and other similar events
    including expanded grants of antitrust immunity to airline
    alliances. This immunity enables airlines to closely coordinate
    their international operations and to launch highly integrated
    joint ventures in transatlantic and other markets. These types
    of structural changes may result in additional challenges to
    travel management companies. For additional information
    concerning these issues, please see  Risk
    Factors    We have agreements with business partners
    in a variety of industries, including the airline industry, that
    represent a significant portion of our business   on
    page 87 below.

Overall, intense competition among travel management companies,
    the ongoing trends of increasing direct sales by airlines, the
    rise of low-cost carriers and ongoing reductions in or
    elimination of airline commissions and fees, continue to put
    pressure on revenue and profitability for travel agents.

Over the last few years we have evolved our business model to
    permit us to charge customers for the services we provide and
    the value we create, and restructured our expense base through
    the rationalization of our call center locations and the
    transitioning of many of our services online. We continue to
    look for new ways to enhance the value we deliver for our
    customers both online and offline. Additionally, we are focusing
    on developing new and innovative products, services and
    technologies, which enhance the value we deliver to our
    customers and suppliers and address ongoing travel industry
    challenges and opportunities.

Global
    Business Travel   Regulation  

The Global Business Travel business is subject to domestic and
    international laws applicable to the provision of travel
    services, including licensure requirements, as well as laws and
    regulations regarding

33

Table of Contents   

passenger screening and registration such as the Secure Flight
    Rule issued by the U.S. Transportation Security
    Administration. Additionally, we are subject to U.S. state
    data security and breach notification laws and regulations, as
    well as significant data protection laws in the European Union
    and many foreign countries in which we operate. We are also
    subject to bankruptcy and debtor relief laws that can affect our
    ability to collect amounts owed to us.

CORPORATE  
    OTHER  

Corporate   Other consists of corporate functions and
    auxiliary businesses, including the Company s Enterprise
    Growth Group, the Company s publishing business, as well as
    other company operations. We also discuss information relevant
    to the Company as a whole in this section.

Enterprise
    Growth Group  

The Enterprise Growth Group was established to create a digital
    services platform for the company, to expand alternative mobile
    and online payment services, form new partnerships and build new
    revenue streams beyond the traditional card and travel
    businesses. The Enterprise Growth Group will leverage the assets
    and capabilities that exist today and build or acquire the
    talent, businesses and platforms required to deliver new forms
    of growth in the digital world. The Group consists of four core
    business units: Online and Mobile Payments, Emerging Markets,
    Fee Based Services and Global Payment Options (formerly known as
    Global Prepaid).

The Enterprise Growth Group also includes Serve Virtual
    Enterprises, Inc. or  Serve  (formerly known as
    Revolution Money). Since acquiring Serve about a year ago, we
    have been working to transition it from a separate business unit
    into an enterprise wide platform to support future digital
    initiatives. In early 2011, we plan to launch this next
    generation payment platform, rebranded and retooled, as a first
    step toward delivering more alternative payment options,
    including
     peer-to-peer 
    payments, mobile capabilities, prepaid products, virtual
    currencies and international remittances.

Online
    and Mobile Payments  

The Online and Mobile business unit is responsible for
    developing new online and mobile payment capabilities that can
    expand the role we play in the digital world. The team is
    focused on working with the right partners to roll out easy to
    use digital payment solutions for consumers, businesses and
    sellers.

Emerging
    Markets  

The Emerging Markets team is responsible for expanding our
    presence in countries like India and China by embracing new
    online and mobile payment technologies and introducing payment
    forms, such as prepaid, that fall outside of our core charge and
    credit cards. This business unit is focused on growing our
    businesses organically, as well as identifying acquisition
    targets and strategic partnerships that can significantly
    increase international revenues.

Fee Based
    Services  

The Fee Based Services team within the Enterprise Growth Group,
    as well as our existing businesses, is tasked with identifying
    ways to capitalize on the existing assets of American Express by
    creating business models that can generate new, non-payment
    revenue streams. The Fee Based Services team is responsible for
    supporting our LoyaltyEdge offering, a new business line that
    assists partners, like Delta Airlines, with developing,
    operating, and improving their own loyalty programs.

Global
    Payment Options (formerly known as Global Prepaid)  

Global Payment Options ( GPO ) offers a wide range of
    prepaid products across the globe, including the American
    Express   

    Gift Card, available in over 100,000 locations in the
    U.S. and Canada. Sales of gift cards

34

Table of Contents   

continued to rise in 2010, reflecting the growing popularity of
    these products and our efforts to increase buying convenience
    for customers.

GPO also offers a variety of incentive prepaid cards, such as
    prepaid rebate and reward card products, as well as prepaid
    reloadable cards. In May, we launched PASS from American
    Express   ,

    a prepaid reloadable card, which is sold and marketed to parents
    as a payment tool for teens and young adults that is an
    alternative to cash, credit or debit cards. In addition we
    launched a prepaid travel card in Australia in August and Brazil
    in December.

In addition, we have been in the business of issuing and selling
    travelers cheques since 1891. We sell the American
    Express   

    Travelers Cheque ( Travelers Cheque  or
     Cheque ) as a safe and convenient alternative to
    cash. Travelers Cheques are currently available in
    U.S. dollars and four foreign currencies, including Euros.
    We also issue and sell other forms of paper travelers cheques,
    including American
    Express   

    Gift Cheques ( Gift Cheques ), which are available in
    U.S. and Canadian dollars. Sales of Travelers Cheques
    continued to decline in 2010.

During 2010 we formed a strategic partnership with the Bank of
    China to launch the American Express Chinese Yuan Travelers
    Cheques, the world s first Yuan prepaid travel product and
    available for international travelers visiting China from
    certain key countries around the world.

We sell American Express prepaid products through a variety of
    channels, including sales directly to customers via phone and
    the Internet. Travelers Cheques and Gift Cheques are sold
    primarily through a broad network of selling outlets worldwide,
    including American Express travel offices, limited independent
    agents and third-party financial institutions. Gift cards are
    available at americanexpress.com, in most malls and retail
    locations and in many bank branches.

The Global Foreign Exchange Services division ( GFES )
    of GPO consists of retail and wholesale foreign exchange
    services and FX International Payments ( FXIP ). Other
    than in Australia and Singapore, where we operate foreign
    exchange offices in city locations and through selected partner
    locations, we concentrate our retail foreign exchange business
    in key international airports, for example at London Heathrow in
    the United Kingdom, Barajas Madrid in Spain and Changi Airport
    in Singapore. For corporate clients, our FXIP online product
    allows companies and financial institutions to make cross-border
    payments in major foreign currencies at competitive exchange
    rates.

For fiscal periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2010,
    the results of operations of GFES were included within the GCS
    reportable operating segment. Effective January 1, 2011,
    the results of operations of GFES will be reported as part of
    GPO within the Corporate   Other Segment. This
    organizational change is part of the Company s strategy to
    accelerate the growth of foreign-exchange related activities in
    new payment areas.

Global
    Payment Options   Competition  

Our products compete with a wide variety of financial payment
    products including cash, foreign currency, checks, other brands
    of travelers cheques, debit, prepaid and ATM cards, store
    branded gift cards, other network branded cards and other
    payment cards.

The principal competitive factors affecting the prepaid sector
    are:

the number and location of merchants willing to accept the form
    of payment

the availability to the consumer of other forms of payment

the amount of fees charged to the consumer

the compensation paid to, and frequency of settlement by,
    selling outlets

the accessibility of sales and refunds for the products

the success of marketing and promotional campaigns

the ability to service the customer satisfactorily, including
    for lost or stolen instruments.

35

Table of Contents   

Global
    Payment Options   Regulation  

As an issuer of travelers cheques and prepaid cards and a
    provider of foreign exchange services, we are regulated in the
    United States under the  money transmitter  or
     sale of check  laws in effect in most states. These
    laws require travelers cheque (and, where applicable, prepaid
    card) issuers, as well as providers of foreign exchange
    services, to obtain licenses, to meet certain safety and
    soundness criteria, to hold outstanding proceeds of sale in
    highly rated and secure investments, and to provide detailed
    reports. We invest the proceeds from sales of our Travelers
    Cheques and prepaid cards in accordance with applicable law,
    predominantly in highly rated debt securities consisting
    primarily of intermediate- and long-term federal, state and
    municipal obligations. Many states examine licensees annually.

In addition, federal anti-money laundering regulations require,
    among other things, the registration of traveler cheque issuers
    and the providers of foreign exchange services as  Money
    Service Businesses  and compliance with applicable
    anti-money laundering recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
    Outside the United States, there are varying licensing and
    anti-money laundering requirements, including some that are
    similar to those in the United States.

Travelers cheque issuers are required by the laws of many states
    to comply with state unclaimed and abandoned property laws under
    which such issuers must pay to states the face amount of any
    travelers cheque that is uncashed or unredeemed after a period
    of time, usually 15 years. The abandoned property laws of
    numerous states also apply to prepaid cards in a variety of ways.

In May 2009, the CARD Act amended provisions of the Electronic
    Funds Transfer Act to impose new restrictions on the terms of
    gift cards and certain other prepaid cards, including
    restrictions on the fees that may be charged, expiration dates,
    and consumer disclosures. The Federal Reserve issued final
    regulations to implement the CARD Act gift card provisions that
    became effective in August 2010. Congress thereafter passed
    legislation that extended the August 2010 effective date of the
    CARD Act gift card provisions to January 2011 for gift cards
    produced prior to April 1, 2010, provided certain
    conditions are met. We continue to monitor state legislative
    activity restricting the terms of gift cards. In certain states
    where regulation continues to restrict fees and has made it
    unprofitable for us to offer gift cards, we have limited or
    withdrawn from selling these cards.

In June 2010, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, an
    enforcement agency of the U.S. Department of the Treasury,
    issued a notice of proposed rule making that proposes a
    number of changes to its regulation of the prepaid industry. In
    general, the proposed rule redefines the term  stored
    value  more broadly and renames this group of products
     prepaid access.  The three traditional categories of
    stored value participants,  issuers, sellers and redeemers
    of stored value,  are now consolidated into two groups,
     providers and sellers of prepaid access.  With
    limited exceptions, the proposed rule imposes suspicious
    activity reporting, customer identification, and record keeping
    requirements on the two newly defined groups, which could mean
    non-bank program managers and retailers would have to develop
    and maintain AML programs that were not previously required. The
    public comment period for the proposed rule closed on
    August 27, 2010. We are awaiting issuance of the final rule
    and will analyze its impact on our current products once the
    final rule is issued.

Please see   Global Network   Merchant
    Services   Regulation   on page 14 for a
    discussion of the Federal Reserve s proposed rules under
    Dodd-Frank to establish, among other things, interchange fee
    limitation rules for debit or prepaid gift card transactions,
    and to prohibit exclusive network routing restrictions for
    electronic debit transactions (which applies to all prepaid
    cards).

American
    Express Publishing  

Through American Express Publishing, we publish: luxury
    lifestyle magazines such as Travel +
    Leisure   ,

    Food  
    Wine   ,

    Departures   

    and Black
    Ink   ;

    travel resources such as
    SkyGuide   ;

    business resources such as the American Express Appointment Book
    and SkyGuide Executive Travel, a business traveler supplement; a
    variety of general interest, cooking, travel, wine, cocktail,
    financial and time management books; branded membership
    services; a growing roster of international and electronic
    editions of our magazines, and branded mobile applications; as
    well as directly sold and licensed products. American Express
    Publishing also has a

36

Table of Contents   

custom publishing group and is expanding its service-driven Web
    sites and applications for mobile devices such as:
    travelandleisure.com, foodandwine.com, departures.com,
    tlgolf.com, tlfamily.com and eskyguide.com. We have an agreement
    with Time Inc. under which it manages our publishing business,
    and we share profits relating to this business.

The
    Global Services Group  

The Global Services Group ( Global Services ) was
    created to heighten the company s focus on customer service
    and to ensure all business operations are managed as effectively
    and efficiently as possible. We have organized support functions
    by process rather than business unit, which the Company expects
    will streamline costs, reduce duplication of work, better
    integrate skills and expertise, and improve customer service.

Global Services is comprised principally of the following
    divisions:

World
    Service  

Our U.S. and international service organizations have been
    consolidated under World Service. Our customer service units
    have worked over a number of years to ensure outstanding service
    to customers, while at the same time improving operating
    margins. As mentioned earlier in this Report, J.D. Power
    and Associates released its annual nationwide credit card
    satisfaction study and ranked American Express highest in
    overall satisfaction among 10 of the largest card issuers in the
    United States for the fourth consecutive year.

Global
    Business Services  

The Global Business Services division is principally comprised
    of procurement, real estate, human resources processing and
    financial processing. These internal process-driven activities
    have been consolidated to simplify and standardize processes for
    increased quality, efficiency and cost savings.

Global
    Credit Administration  

Global Credit Administration ( GCA ) is responsible
    for the
     end-to-end 
    management of our credit, collections, and fraud operations
    around the world. GCA aims to strike the right balance between
    helping Cardmembers in need through a range of workout programs,
    and taking actions to prevent spending that will not be paid
    back to American Express.

Technologies  

We continue to make significant investments, both in the United
    States and internationally, in our Card systems and
    infrastructure to allow faster introduction and greater
    customization of products. We also are using technology to
    develop and improve our service capabilities to continue to
    deliver a high quality customer experience. For example, we
    maintain a service delivery platform that our employees use in
    the Card business to support a variety of customer servicing and
    account management activities such as account maintenance,
    updating of Cardmember information, the addition of new Cards to
    an account and resolving customer satisfaction issues. In
    international markets, we are enhancing our global platforms and
    capabilities, such as in revolving credit.

We continue to leverage the Internet to lower costs, improve
    service quality and enhance our business model. During 2010, we
    continued to broaden our focus to use the Internet to drive
    revenue and build our brand, while continuing to migrate
    transaction volumes at lower costs. We also continue to have
    more online customer service interactions in the United States
    than we do by telephone or in person.

As of year-end, customers had enrolled approximately
    30 million Cards globally in our online account management
    capability known as the  Manage Your Card Account 
    service. This service enables Cardmembers to review all of their
    card transactions online, pay their American Express bills
    electronically, view and service their Membership Rewards
    program accounts and conduct various other functions quickly and
    securely online. We now have an online presence in 24 countries
    around the world, including the United Kingdom, Australia,
    Italy, France, Mexico and Japan. We continue to devote
    substantial resources to our technology

37

Table of Contents   

platform to ensure the highest level of data integrity, security
    and privacy. We are one of the founders of PCI SSC, an
    independent standards-setting organization that manages the
    evolution of technical data security standards. We also are an
    owner-member of EMVCo, the standards body that manages,
    maintains, and enhances specifications for chip-based payment
    cards and acceptance devices, including
     point-of-sale 
    terminals. (For a discussion of these organizations, see the
     Global Merchant Services  section above.)

We have outsourced most of our technology infrastructure
    management and application development and maintenance to third
    party service providers to enable us to benefit from their
    expertise while lowering our information technology costs per
    transaction. However, our internal IT organization continues to
    retain the Company s key technology competencies, including
    information technology strategy, information security, managing
    strategic relationships with technologies  partners, data
    center operations, technology architecture and engineering,
    oversight of application and database development and
    maintenance, and managing the technology portfolios of our
    businesses.

Supervision
    and Regulation   General  

Overview  

Federal and state banking laws, regulations and policies
    extensively regulate the Company, TRS, Centurion Bank and
    AEBFSB, including prescribing standards relating to capital,
    earnings, liquidity, dividends, the repurchase or redemption of
    shares, loans or extension of credit to affiliates and insiders,
    internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems,
    loan documentation, credit underwriting, asset growth and
    impaired assets, among other things. Such laws and regulations
    are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, other
    customers and the federal deposit insurance funds, as well as to
    minimize systemic risk, and not for the protection of our
    shareholders or creditors. Following the financial crisis of
    2008, supervisory efforts to apply these laws, regulations and
    policies have become more intense.

American Express Company and TRS are bank holding companies
    under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 ( BHC Act )
    and have elected to be treated as financial holding companies
    under the BHC Act. As a bank holding company under the BHC Act,
    the Company is subject to supervision and examination by the
    Federal Reserve. Under the system of  functional
    regulation  established under the BHC Act, the Federal
    Reserve supervises the Company, including all of its non-bank
    subsidiaries, as an  umbrella regulator  of the
    consolidated organization and generally defers to the primary
    U.S. regulators of the Company s U.S. depository
    institution subsidiaries, as applicable. Bank regulatory
    agencies have broad examination and enforcement power over bank
    holding companies and their subsidiaries, including the power to
    impose substantial fines, limit dividends, restrict operations
    and acquisitions and require divestitures. Bank holding
    companies and banks, as well as subsidiaries of both, are
    prohibited by law from engaging in practices that the relevant
    regulatory authority deems unsafe or unsound.

Many aspects of our business are also subject to rigorous
    regulation by other U.S. federal and state regulatory
    agencies and securities exchanges and by
     non-U.S. government 
    agencies or regulatory bodies and securities exchanges. Certain
    of our public disclosure, internal control environment and
    corporate governance principles are subject to the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( Sarbanes-Oxley ) and
    related regulations and rules of the SEC and the New York Stock
    Exchange, Inc. As a global financial institution, to the extent
    that different regulatory systems impose overlapping or
    inconsistent requirements on the conduct of our business, we
    face complexity and additional costs in our compliance efforts.

The
    Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
    Act  

Dodd-Frank, which was enacted in July 2010, significantly
    restructures the financial regulatory regime in the United
    States, including through the creation of a new systemic risk
    oversight body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council
    ( FSOC ). The FSOC will oversee and coordinate the
    efforts of the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies
    (including the Federal Reserve, the SEC, the U.S. Commodity
    Futures Trading Commission, the OCC and the FDIC) in
    establishing regulations to address financial stability
    concerns. Dodd-Frank directs the FSOC to make recommendations to
    the Federal Reserve as to supervisory requirements and
    prudential standards applicable to bank holding companies with
    $50 billion or more in total consolidated

38

Table of Contents   

assets, which includes the Company, and other systemically
    important financial institutions. The standards include capital,
    leverage, liquidity and risk-management requirements. Dodd-Frank
    mandates that the requirements applicable to systemically
    important financial institutions be more stringent than those
    applicable to other financial companies.

In addition to the framework for systemic risk oversight
    implemented through the FSOC, Dodd-Frank broadly affects the
    financial services industry in numerous respects, including by
    creating a resolution authority, by requiring banks to pay
    increased fees to regulatory agencies, by requiring all publicly
    traded bank holding companies that have assets of at least
    $10 billion to establish a risk committee (including
    independent directors) responsible for enterprise-wide risk
    management oversight and practices, and through numerous other
    provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the
    financial services sector. Moreover, Title X of Dodd-Frank,
    known as the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (the
     CFPA ), provides for the creation of the Consumer
    Financial Protection Bureau, a new consumer financial services
    regulator, discussed below under  Consumer Financial
    Protection Act of 2010.  New laws or regulations or changes
    to existing laws and regulations (including changes in
    interpretation or enforcement) could materially adversely affect
    our financial condition or results of operations. As discussed
    further throughout this section, many aspects of Dodd-Frank are
    subject to further rulemaking and will take effect over several
    years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial
    impact on the Company or across the industry. In addition to the
    discussion in this section, please see  Risk
    Factors    The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
    Consumer Protection Act may have a significant adverse impact on
    our business, results of operations and financial
    condition   on pages 77-78 and  Risk
    Factors    Banks, card issuers and card network
    operators generally are the subject of increasing global
    regulatory focus, which may impose costly new compliance burdens
    on our Company and lead to decreased transaction volumes and
    revenues through our network   on pages 80-82 for a
    further discussion of some of the potential impact legislative
    and regulatory changes may have on our results of operations and
    financial condition.

Consumer
    Financial Protection Act of 2010  

As mentioned above, the CFPA provides for the creation of the
    Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the  Bureau ), a
    new consumer financial services regulator. As of July 21,
    2011, but subject to a possible six-month extension, our
    marketing and sale of consumer financial products and our
    compliance with certain federal consumer financial laws,
    including the CFPA and the Truth in Lending Act, will be
    supervised and examined by the Bureau. On that date, the Bureau
    will assume responsibility from our current banking regulators
    for supervision and examination of Centurion Bank, AEBFSB, and
    their affiliates, including the Company, with respect to such
    federal consumer financial laws. The Bureau will have authority
    to take enforcement actions against us for violation of those
    laws and also will have exclusive rulemaking authority for such
    federal consumer financial laws. In the interim, the federal
    banking agencies have been vigorously enforcing consumer
    protection laws.

The Bureau also will be directed to prohibit  unfair,
    deceptive or abusive  acts and practices and to ensure that
    all consumers have access to markets for consumer financial
    products and services, and that such markets are fair,
    transparent and competitive. The new legislation also weakens
    federal preemption available to federal savings associations,
    including AEBFSB, and gives state attorneys general the ability
    to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws.

Financial
    Holding Company Status and Activities  

The BHC Act limits the nonbanking activities of bank holding
    companies. Unless a bank holding company has qualified as a
     financial holding company,  its nonbanking activities
    are restricted to those that the Federal Reserve has determined
    are  so closely related to banking as to be a proper
    incident thereto.  An eligible bank holding company may
    elect to be a financial holding company, which is authorized to
    engage in a broader range of financial activities. A financial
    holding company may engage in any activity that has been
    determined by rule or order to be financial in nature,
    incidental to such financial activity, or (with prior Federal
    Reserve approval) complementary to a financial activity and that
    does not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of a
    depository institution or to the financial system generally.
    American Express

39

Table of Contents   

engages in various activities permissible only for a bank
    holding company that has elected to be treated as a financial
    holding company, including in particular providing travel agency
    services, acting as a finder and engaging in certain insurance
    underwriting and agency services.

For a bank holding company to be eligible for financial holding
    company status, each of its subsidiary U.S. depository
    institutions must be  well capitalized  and  well
    managed  and must have received at least a satisfactory
    rating on its most recent Community Reinvestment Act of 1977
    (the  CRA ) review. Pursuant to Dodd-Frank, beginning
    July 21, 2011, but subject to a possible six-month
    extension, to be eligible for financial holding company status,
    the Company and TRS also must be and remain well capitalized and
    well managed. If the Company fails to continue to meet
    applicable capital or managerial standards for financial holding
    company status, the Company would be required to enter into an
    agreement with the Federal Reserve to comply with applicable
    capital and managerial standards. Moreover, until all relevant
    conditions are satisfied, the Company, its subsidiaries and
    affiliates would not, without the Federal Reserve s prior
    approval, be permitted to commence any additional activities, or
    acquire control or shares of any company, in reliance on the
    Company s status as a financial holding company, and the
    Company would be required to comply with any additional
    limitations that the Federal Reserve imposes. If a company does
    not return to compliance within 180 days, the Federal
    Reserve may order the company to divest its subsidiary
    U.S. depository institutions or the company may discontinue
    or divest investments in companies engaged in activities
    permissible only for a bank holding company that has elected to
    be treated as a financial holding company. In addition, if any
    subsidiary U.S. depository institution fails to maintain a
    satisfactory rating under the CRA, American Express would be
    subject to substantially the same restrictions on activities and
    acquisitions as set forth above.

Please see   Our business is subject to significant and
    extensive government regulation and supervision which could
    adversely affect our results of operations and financial
    condition   in  Item 1A Risk
    Factors  below.

Heightened
    Prudential Requirements for Large Bank Holding
    Companies  

As discussed above, Dodd-Frank creates a new systemic risk
    oversight body, the FSOC, to identify, monitor and address
    potential threats to U.S. financial stability.
    Additionally, Dodd-Frank imposes heightened prudential
    requirements on bank holding companies with at least
    $50 billion in total consolidated assets, including the
    Company, and requires the Federal Reserve to establish
    prudential standards for such large bank holding companies that
    are more stringent than those applicable to other bank holding
    companies, including standards for risk-based capital
    requirements and leverage limits, liquidity, risk-management
    requirements, resolution plans (referred to as  living
    wills ), credit exposure reporting, and concentration. The
    Federal Reserve has discretionary authority to establish
    additional prudential standards, on its own or at the
    FSOC s recommendation, regarding contingent capital,
    enhanced public disclosures, short-term debt limits and
    otherwise as it deems appropriate.

Dodd-Frank requires the Federal Reserve to conduct annual
    analyses of bank holding companies with at least
    $50 billion in total consolidated assets to evaluate
    whether the companies have sufficient capital on a total
    consolidated basis necessary to absorb losses as a result of
    adverse economic conditions. In addition, such large bank
    holding companies, including the Company, must conduct similar
    so-called  stress tests  on a semiannual basis.
    Furthermore, such large bank holding companies may be required
    to maintain a
     debt-to-equity 
    ratio of no more than 15 to 1 upon a determination by the FSOC
    that the company poses a grave threat to the financial stability
    of the U.S. and the imposition of such requirement is
    necessary to mitigate the posed threat.

As noted above, Dodd-Frank will require us to prepare and
    provide to regulators a resolution plan that must, among other
    things, ensure that our depository institution subsidiaries are
    adequately protected from risks arising from our other
    subsidiaries. The establishment and maintenance of this
    resolution plan may, as a practical matter, present additional
    constraints on transactions and business arrangements between
    our bank and non-bank subsidiaries.

40

Table of Contents   

Activities
    and Acquisitions  

The BHC Act requires a bank holding company to obtain the prior
    approval of the Federal Reserve before: (1) it may acquire
    direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of
    any bank or savings and loan association, if after such
    acquisition, the bank holding company will directly or
    indirectly own or control more than 5% of any class of the
    voting securities of the institution; (2) it or any of its
    subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or
    substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan
    association; or (3) it may merge or consolidate with any
    other bank holding company.

The Federal Reserve must approve certain additional capital
    contributions to an existing
     non-U.S. investment 
    and certain direct and indirect acquisitions by the Company of
    an interest in a
     non-U.S. company, 
    including in a foreign bank, as well as the establishment by
    Centurion Bank of foreign branches in certain circumstances.
    Additionally, a provision of Dodd-Frank that became effective on
    the day of enactment requires bank holding companies with total
    consolidated assets equal to or greater than $50 billion to
    provide the Federal Reserve with written notice prior to
    acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting
    shares of any company (other than an insured depository
    institution) that is engaged in financial activities described
    in section 4(k) of the BHC Act and that has total
    consolidated assets of $10 billion or more, subject to
    certain exceptions. Moreover, another provision of Dodd-Frank
    that is effective on the transfer date of July 21, 2011,
    but subject to a possible six-month extension, requires
    financial holding companies to obtain Federal Reserve approval
    prior to acquiring a nonbank company with total consolidated
    assets in excess of $10 billion.

The Change in Bank Control Act prohibits a person, entity, or
    group of persons or entities acting in concert, from acquiring
     control  of a bank holding company such as the
    Company unless the Federal Reserve has been given prior notice
    and has not objected to the transaction. Under Federal Reserve
    regulations, the acquisition of 10% or more of a class of voting
    stock of the Company would generally create a rebuttable
    presumption of acquisition of control of the Company.

In addition, under the BHC Act, any company is required to
    obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve before acquiring
    control of the Company, which, among other things, includes the
    acquisition of ownership of or control over 25% or more of any
    class of voting securities of the Company or the power to
    exercise a  controlling influence  over the Company.
    In the case of an acquirer that is a bank or bank holding
    company, the BHC Act requires approval of the Federal Reserve
    for the acquisition of ownership or control of any voting
    securities of the Company, if the acquisition results in the
    bank or bank holding company controlling more than 5% of the
    outstanding shares of any class of voting securities of the
    Company.

Source of
    Strength  

Federal Reserve policy historically has required bank holding
    companies to act as a source of strength to their bank
    subsidiaries and to commit capital and financial resources to
    support those subsidiaries. Dodd-Frank makes this a statutory
    requirement and extends it to all insured depository institution
    subsidiaries beginning on July 21, 2011, subject to a
    possible six-month extension. Therefore, the Company is expected
    to act as a source of strength to Centurion Bank and AEBFSB and
    to commit capital and financial resources to support both
    institutions. Such support may be required at times when, absent
    this requirement, we otherwise might determine not to
    provide it.

Capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary
    banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to
    certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the
    event of a bank holding company s bankruptcy, any
    commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank
    regulator to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be
    assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of
    payment.

Capital
    Adequacy  

The Company, TRS, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are required to
    comply with the applicable capital adequacy guidelines
    established by the federal banking regulators. There are two
    risk-based measures of

41

Table of Contents   

capital adequacy for bank holding companies that have been
    promulgated by the Federal Reserve, as well as a leverage
    measure.

The Company currently calculates its risk-based capital ratios
    under guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve, based on the
    1998 Capital Accord ( Basel I ) of the Basel Committee
    on Banking Supervision (the  Basel Committee ). In
    June 2004, the Basel Committee published new international
    guidelines for determining regulatory capital ( Basel
    II ). In December 2007, the U.S. bank regulatory
    agencies jointly adopted a final rule based on Basel II. The
    Company, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are required to transition to
    the Basel II based guidelines no later than January 1,
    2013, unless extended by its regulators. In December 2010, the
    Basel Committee released its final framework for strengthening
    international capital and liquidity regulation, now officially
    identified by the Basel Committee as  Basel III .
    Basel III, when implemented by the U.S. banking agencies
    and fully phased-in, will require bank holding companies and
    their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital,
    with a greater emphasis on common equity. Each Basel Accord is
    discussed below.

The risk-based capital guidelines are designed to make
    regulatory capital requirements sensitive to differences in
    credit and market risk profiles among banks and financial
    holding companies, to account for off-balance-sheet exposure,
    and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets
    and off-balance-sheet items are assigned to broad risk
    categories, each with appropriate weights. The resulting capital
    ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted
    assets and off-balance-sheet items. As a supervisory matter,
    federal bank regulatory agencies expect most bank holding
    companies, and in particular larger bank holding companies such
    as the Company, to maintain regulatory capital ratios that, at a
    minimum, qualify a bank holding company and its depository
    institution subsidiaries as  well capitalized.  The
    required ratios to qualify as well capitalized are a total
    risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, a Tier 1
    risk-based capital ratio of at least 6% and a leverage ratio of
    at least 5%. The guidelines also provide that bank holding
    companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions
    will be expected to maintain strong capital positions
    substantially above the minimum supervisory levels without
    significant reliance on intangible assets. Following the recent
    financial crisis, the federal bank regulatory agencies have
    encouraged larger bank holding companies to maintain capital
    ratios appreciably above the  well capitalized 
    standard. Moreover, the Federal Reserve is focusing more on the
    regulatory requirement that common equity be the
     predominant  element of Tier 1 capital.
    Furthermore, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it will
    consider a  tangible Tier 1 capital leverage
    ratio  (deducting all intangibles) and other indicators of
    capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new
    activities. In addition, the Federal Reserve has assessed the
    capital adequacy of the country s 19 largest bank holding
    companies, including the Company, under a so-called  stress
    test .

For additional information regarding our capital ratios, please
    see  Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity  on
    pages 39-41 of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders,
    which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Basel
    I  

The Company, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB currently calculate
    regulatory capital ratios under Basel I, as adopted by the
    applicable federal bank regulatory agencies. Under Basel I,
    as adopted, the minimum guideline for the ratio of total capital
    to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance-sheet
    items, such as standby letters of credit) is 8%. At least half
    of the total capital must be composed of Tier 1 capital,
    which includes common equity, undivided profits, minority
    interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries
    (including, for bank holding companies but not banks, trust
    preferred securities), non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock
    and for bank holding companies (but not banks) a limited amount
    of cumulative perpetual preferred stock, less goodwill and
    certain other intangible assets. Tier 2 capital may consist
    of, among other things, qualifying subordinated debt,
    mandatorily convertible debt securities, other preferred stock
    and trust preferred securities and a limited amount of the
    allowance for loan losses. Non-cumulative perpetual preferred
    stock, trust preferred securities and other so-called
     restricted core capital elements  are generally
    limited to 25% of Tier 1 capital. The minimum guideline for
    the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets is 4%.

42

Table of Contents   

The risk-based capital rules state that the capital guidelines
    are minimum standards based primarily on broad credit-risk
    considerations and do not take into account the other types of
    risk a banking organization may be exposed to (e.g., interest
    rate, market, liquidity and operational risks). The Federal
    Reserve may, therefore, set higher capital requirements for
    categories of banks (e.g., systematically important firms), or
    for an individual bank, as situations warrant.

Basel
    II  

The U.S. Basel II final rule became effective on
    April 1, 2008. The Company, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are
    required to transition to the Basel II-based guidelines by
    January 1, 2013,unless extended by its regulators. The
    final rule provides for a series of three transitional periods
    during which the Company must calculate its risk-based capital
    ratios under both the Basel I-based guidelines and the new Basel
    II-based guidelines, with the minimum capital requirements
    during the transitional periods being the greater of the
    required capital as calculated under the final rule and a
    designated percentage of required capital as calculated under
    Basel I. Prior to beginning the three transitional periods, we
    must complete a satisfactory parallel-run period of no less than
    four consecutive calendar quarters during which we will be
    required to confidentially report regulatory capital under both
    the Basel I and Basel II regulations. Under the final rule,
    we must begin the first transitional period for capital
    calculation under the final rule no later than January 1,
    2013, unless this time is extended by the Federal Reserve.

Dodd-Frank appears to require the Federal Reserve to adopt
    regulations imposing a continuing  floor  of the Basel
    I-based capital guidelines in cases where the Basel II-based
    capital requirements and any changes in capital regulations
    resulting from Basel III otherwise would permit lower
    requirements. In December 2010, the Federal Reserve published
    for comment proposed regulations implementing this requirement.

Leverage
    Requirement  

Basel I and Basel II do not include a leverage requirement
    as an international standard. However, the Federal Reserve has
    established minimum leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding
    companies (and, as further discussed below, Basel III will
    impose a leverage requirement as an international standard). The
    Federal Reserve s existing guidelines provide for a minimum
    ratio of Tier 1 capital to average total assets, less
    goodwill and certain other intangible assets (the  Leverage
    Ratio ), of 3% for bank holding companies that meet certain
    specified criteria, including having the highest regulatory
    rating. All other bank holding companies generally are required
    to maintain a Leverage Ratio of at least 4%.

Basel
    III  

The Basel III final capital framework, among other things:

introduces as a new capital measure  Common Equity
    Tier 1  ,  or  CET1 , specifies that
    Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and  Additional
    Tier 1 capital  instruments meeting specified
    requirements, defines CET1 narrowly by requiring that most
    adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and
    not to the other components of capital, and expands the scope of
    the adjustments as compared to existing regulations;

when fully phased in on Jan. 1, 2019, requires banks to
    maintain:

as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum ratio of
    CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5%
     capital conservation buffer , which is added to the
    4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively
    resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of
    at least 7% (there is no comparable CET1 requirement under Basel
    I or II)

a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets
    of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer, which is
    added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is
    phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1
    capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation (the current
    requirement is 6.00% for a well capitalized bank)

43

Table of Contents   

a minimum ratio of Total (that is, Tier 1 plus
    Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least
    8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer, which is added to
    the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in,
    effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5%
    upon full implementation (the current requirement is 10% for a
    well capitalized bank) and

as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum leverage
    ratio of 3%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to
    balance sheet exposures plus certain off-balance sheet exposures
    (as the average for each quarter of the month-end ratios for the
    quarter) and

provides for a  countercyclical capital buffer ,
    generally to be imposed when national regulators determine that
    excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup
    of systemic risk, that would be a CET1 add-on to the capital
    conservation buffer in the range of 0% to 2.5% when fully
    implemented (potentially resulting in total buffers of between
    2.5% and 5%).

The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses
    during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a
    ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but
    below the conservation buffer (or below the combined capital
    conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the
    latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity
    repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the
    shortfall.

The implementation of the Basel III final framework will
    commence January 1, 2013. On that date, banking
    institutions will be required to meet the following minimum
    capital ratios:

3.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets;

4.5% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets; and

8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets.

The Basel III final framework provides for a number of new
    deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for
    example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights,
    deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income and
    significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities
    be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category
    exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate
    exceed 15% of CET1. The amount of these assets that is not
    deducted from CET1 will be risk weighted at 250%.

Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1
    will begin on January 1, 2014 and will be phased-in over a
    five-year period (20% per year). The implementation of the
    capital conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016
    at 0.625% and be phased in over a four-year period (increasing
    by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it
    reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019).

The U.S. banking agencies have indicated informally that
    they expect to propose regulations implementing Basel III
    in mid-2011 with final adoption of implementing regulations in
    mid-2012. Notwithstanding its release of the Basel III
    framework as a final framework, the Basel Committee is
    considering further amendments to Basel III, including the
    imposition of additional capital surcharges on globally
    systemically important financial institutions. The Company does
    not believe it will be considered a globally systemically
    important financial institution. Dodd-Frank requires the federal
    banking agencies to adopt regulations affecting
    U.S. banking institutions  capital requirements in a
    number of respects and mandates that the Federal Reserve adopt
    prudential requirements applicable to systemically important
    financial institutions (including risk-based capital and
    leverage requirements) that are more stringent than those
    applicable to other financial companies. The Company is a bank
    holding company with more than $50 billion in total
    consolidated assets, so it is considered a systemically
    important financial institution under Dodd-Frank. The
    implications of this designation on the Company s capital
    requirements are uncertain at this time. Accordingly, the
    regulations ultimately applicable to us may be substantially
    different from the Basel III final framework as published
    in December 2010.

44

Table of Contents   

Liquidity
    Ratios under Basel III  

Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank and bank holding
    company liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter,
    both in the U.S. and internationally, without required
    formulaic measures. The Basel III final framework requires
    banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity
    against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some
    respects to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and
    regulators for management and supervisory purposes, going
    forward will be required by regulation. One test, referred to as
    the liquidity coverage ratio ( LCR ), is designed to
    ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of
    unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the
    entity s expected net cash outflow for a
     30-day  time
    horizon (or, if greater, 25% of its expected total cash outflow)
    under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The other test,
    referred to as the net stable funding ratio ( NSFR ),
    is designed to promote more medium-and long-term funding of the
    assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time
    horizon. These requirements will incent banking entities to
    increase their holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and
    other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase the
    use of long-term debt as a funding source. The LCR would be
    implemented subject to an observation period beginning in 2011,
    but would not be introduced as a requirement until
    January 1, 2015, and the NSFR would not be introduced as a
    requirement until January 1, 2018. These new standards are
    subject to further rulemaking and their terms may change before
    implementation.

Prompt
    Corrective Action  

The FDIA requires, among other things, that federal banking
    regulators take prompt corrective action in respect of
    FDIC-insured depository institutions (such as Centurion Bank and
    AEBFSB) that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The FDIA
    specifies five capital tiers:  well capitalized, 
     adequately capitalized, 
     undercapitalized,   significantly
    undercapitalized,  and  critically
    undercapitalized.  A depository institution s capital
    tier depends upon how its capital levels compare to various
    relevant capital measures and certain other factors, as
    established by regulation. A bank may be deemed to be in a
    capitalization category that is lower than is indicated by its
    actual capital position if it receives an unsatisfactory
    examination rating. Once an institution becomes
     undercapitalized,  the FDIA imposes progressively
    more restrictive constraints on operations, management and
    capital distributions, depending on the capital category in
    which an institution is classified. A depository institution
    that is not well capitalized is also subject to restrictions on
    the acceptance of brokered deposits including Certificate of
    Deposit Account Registry Service deposits. The majority of the
    Company s outstanding U.S. retail deposits have been
    raised through third-party channels and are considered brokered
    deposits for bank regulatory purposes. As part of its funding
    strategy, a majority of the deposits raised during 2010 were
    sourced directly by the Company with consumers through Personal
    Savings from American Express. For a description of our deposit
    programs, please see  Deposit Programs  beginning on
    page 24 above and  Deposit Programs  on
    page 43 of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, which
    information is incorporated herein by reference.

The FDIA generally prohibits an FDIC-insured depository
    institution from making any capital distribution (including
    payment of dividends) or paying any management fee to its
    holding company if the depository institution would thereafter
    be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions
    are subject to restrictions on borrowing from the Federal
    Reserve and to growth limitations, and are required to submit a
    capital restoration plan. For a capital restoration plan to be
    acceptable, any holding company must guarantee the capital plan
    up to an amount equal to the lesser of 5% of the depository
    institution s assets at the time it became undercapitalized
    and the amount of the capital deficiency at the time it fails to
    comply with the plan. In the event of the holding company s
    bankruptcy, such guarantee would take priority over claims of
    its general unsecured creditors. If a depository institution
    fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is
    significantly undercapitalized.

Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions may be
    subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including
    orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately
    capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation
    of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically
    undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to
    appointment of a receiver or conservator.

45

Table of Contents   

Dividends  

The Company and TRS as well as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are
    limited by banking statutes and regulations in their ability to
    pay dividends. In general, federal and applicable state banking
    laws prohibit, without first obtaining regulatory approval,
    insured depository institutions, such as Centurion Bank and
    AEBFSB, from making dividend distributions if such distributions
    are not paid out of available recent earnings or would cause the
    institution to fail to meet capital adequacy standards. In
    addition to specific limitations on the dividends that
    subsidiary banks can pay to their holding companies, federal
    regulators could prohibit a dividend that would constitute an
    unsafe or unsound banking practice in light of the financial
    condition of the banking organization.

Dividend payments by the Company and TRS to shareholders are
    subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. It is Federal
    Reserve policy that bank holding companies generally should pay
    dividends on common stock to common shareholders only out of net
    income available to common shareholders over the past year and
    only if the prospective rate of earnings retention appears
    consistent with the organization s current and expected
    future capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial
    condition. Moreover, bank holding companies should not maintain
    dividend levels that place undue pressure on the capital of
    depository institution subsidiaries or that may undermine the
    bank holding company s ability to be a source of strength
    to its banking subsidiaries. The Federal Reserve could prohibit
    a dividend by the Company or TRS that would constitute an unsafe
    or unsound banking practice in light of the financial condition
    of the banking organization.

Under  temporary  guidance issued by the Federal
    Reserve in November 2010, bank holding companies, such as the
    Company and TRS, should consult with the Federal Reserve before
    taking any actions that could result in a diminished capital
    base, including actions such as increasing dividends. The
    Federal Reserve will assess the bank holding company s
    capital adequacy based on capital plans and stress tests
    submitted by the bank holding company. The Federal Reserve will
    review the capital plans, including dividend policies, against,
    among other things, the bank holding company s ability to
    achieve Basel III capital ratio requirements referred to
    above as they are phased in by U.S. regulators and any
    potential impact of Dodd-Frank on the company s risk
    profile, business strategy, corporate structure or capital
    adequacy. A company that has not achieved Basel III capital
    requirements on a fully phased-in basis may have difficulty
    increasing dividends. Although the regulations ultimately
    applicable to the Company will be determined by the Federal
    Reserve, the Company estimates that, had regulations
    implementing Basel III been in place during the fourth
    quarter of 2010, the Company s capital ratios under
    Basel III would have exceeded the minimum requirements.
    This estimate could change in the future. Although we expect to
    meet the Basel III capital requirements, inclusive of the
    capital conservation buffer, as phased in by the Federal
    Reserve, the regulations ultimately applicable to us may be
    substantially different from the Basel III final framework
    as published in December 2010.

Transactions
    between Centurion Bank or AEBFSB and Their Respective
    Affiliates  

Certain transactions (including loans and credit extensions from
    Centurion Bank and AEBFSB) between Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, on
    the one hand, and their affiliates (including the Company, TRS
    and their non-bank subsidiaries), on the other hand, are subject
    to quantitative and qualitative limitations, collateral
    requirements, and other restrictions imposed by statute and
    Federal Reserve regulation. Effective July 21, 2012
    (subject to a six-month extension) Dodd-Frank significantly
    expands the coverage and scope of the limitations on affiliate
    transactions within a banking organization and changes the
    procedure for seeking exemptions from these restrictions.
    Transactions subject to these restrictions are generally
    required to be made on an arms-length basis. These restrictions
    generally do not apply to transactions between a depository
    institution and its subsidiaries.

FDIC
    Insurance Assessments  

Centurion Bank and AEBFSB accept deposits, and those deposits
    are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable limits. The
    FDIC s deposit insurance fund ( Deposit Insurance
    Fund ) is funded by assessments on insured depository
    institutions, which currently depend on the risk category of an
    institution and the amount of

46

Table of Contents   

insured deposits that the institution holds. The FDIC may
    increase or decrease the assessment rate schedule on a
    semi-annual basis.

As part of its efforts to rebuild the Deposit Insurance Fund,
    the FDIC required insured depository institutions, including
    Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, to prepay their estimated assessments
    for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on December 30, 2009.

Dodd-Frank requires the FDIC to amend its regulations to base
    insurance assessments on the average consolidated total assets
    less the average tangible equity of the insured depository
    institution during the assessment period (the  new
    assessment base ). The FDIC has approved a final rule,
    effective April 1, 2011, that implements the required
    change to the assessment base and changes the assessment rate
    calculation for large insured depository institutions, including
    Centurion Bank and AEBFSB. Effective April 1, 2011, the
    assessment rates will be subject to adjustments based upon the
    insured depository institution s ratio of
    (1) long-term unsecured debt to the new assessment base,
    (2) long-term unsecured debt issued by another insured
    depository institution to the new assessment base, and
    (3) brokered deposits to the new assessment base. However,
    effective April 1, 2011, the adjustments based on brokered
    deposits to the new assessment base will not apply so long as
    the institution is well capitalized and has a composite CAMELS
    rating of 1 or 2. Additionally, the rules permit the FDIC to
    impose additional discretionary assessment rate adjustments.
    These changes could have an adverse effect on our results of
    operations and financial condition. Furthermore, future changes
    to deposit insurance assessments also could have an adverse
    effect on our results of operation and financial condition.

Dodd-Frank also requires the FDIC to increase the reserve ratio
    for the Deposit Insurance Fund from 1.15 percent to reach a
    minimum of 1.35 percent of estimated insured deposits by
    September 30, 2020. On December 20, 2010, the FDIC
    issued a final rule setting the increased reserve ratio at
    2 percent. This increase will result in increased costs for
    Centurion Bank and AEBFSB. In addition, Dodd-Frank eliminates
    the ceiling (1.5 percent of insured deposits) on the size
    of the Deposit Insurance Fund and makes the payment of dividends
    from the Deposit Insurance Fund by the FDIC discretionary.

Under the FDIA, the FDIC may terminate the insurance of an
    institution s deposits upon a finding that the institution
    has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or
    unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any
    applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by
    the FDIC. We do not know of any practice, condition or violation
    that might lead to termination of deposit insurance at either of
    our insured depository institution subsidiaries.

FDIC
    Powers upon Insolvency of Insured Depository
    Institutions  

If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an
    insured depository institution, such as Centurion Bank or
    AEBFSB, upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC
    has the power: (1) to transfer any of the depository
    institution s assets and liabilities to a new obligor
    without the approval of the depository institution s
    creditors; (2) to enforce the terms of the depository
    institution s contracts pursuant to their terms; or
    (3) to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to
    which the depository institution is a party, the performance of
    which is determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the
    disaffirmation or repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC
    to promote the orderly administration of the depository
    institution.

In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of
    U.S. deposit liabilities and certain claims for
    administrative expenses against an insured depository
    institution would be afforded a priority over other general
    unsecured claims against the institution, including claims of
    debt holders of the institution and depositors in
     non-U.S. offices, 
    in the liquidation or other resolution of the institution by a
    receiver. As a result, whether or not the FDIC ever sought to
    repudiate any debt obligations of Centurion Bank or AEBFSB, the
    debt holders would be treated differently from, and could
    receive substantially less, if anything, than the depositors in
    U.S. offices of the depository institution.

47

Table of Contents   

Orderly
    Liquidation Authority under Dodd-Frank  

Dodd-Frank creates Orderly Liquidation Authority
    ( OLA ), a resolution regime for systemically
    important non-bank financial companies, including bank holding
    companies, under which the Treasury Secretary may appoint the
    FDIC as receiver to liquidate such a company if the company is
    in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to
    U.S. financial stability. This determination by the
    Treasury Secretary must come after supermajority recommendations
    by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC and consultation by the
    Treasury Secretary with the President. OLA is similar to the
    FDIC resolution model for depository institutions, with certain
    modifications to reflect differences between depository
    institutions and non-bank financial companies and to reduce
    disparities between the treatment of creditors  claims
    under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and in an OLA proceeding as
    compared to disparities that would exist in the resolution by
    the FDIC of an insured depository institution.

An Orderly Liquidation Fund will fund OLA liquidation
    proceedings through borrowings from the U.S. Department of
    Treasury and risk-based assessments made, first, on entities
    that receive more in the resolution than they would have
    received in liquidation to the extent of such excess, and
    second, if necessary, on bank holding companies with total
    consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as the
    Company, and on certain other non-bank financial companies. If
    an orderly liquidation is triggered, the Company could face
    assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund. It is not possible
    to determine the level of any such future assessments.

Cross-Guarantee
    Provisions  

Under the  cross-guarantee  provision of the Financial
    Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989
    ( FIRREA ), insured depository institutions, such as
    Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, may be liable to the FDIC with
    respect to any loss incurred or reasonably anticipated to be
    incurred by the FDIC in connection with the default of, or FDIC
    assistance to, any commonly controlled insured depository
    institution. Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are commonly controlled
    within the meaning of the FIRREA cross-guarantee provision.

Community
    Reinvestment Act  

Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are subject to the provisions of the
    CRA. Under the terms of the CRA, the primary federal regulator
    of a depository institution is required, in connection with its
    examination of the depository institution, to assess such
    depository institution s record in meeting the credit needs
    of the communities served by that depository institution,
    including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. Furthermore,
    such assessment also is required of any depository institution
    that has applied to, among other things, merge or consolidate
    with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of a
    federally regulated financial institution or to open or relocate
    a branch office. In the case of a bank holding company applying
    for approval to acquire a bank or bank holding company, the
    Federal Reserve will assess the record of each subsidiary
    depository institution of the applicant bank holding company in
    considering the application. In addition, as discussed
    previously, the failure of the Company s subsidiary
    depository institutions to maintain satisfactory CRA ratings
    could result in restrictions on the Company s and TRS 
    ability to engage in activities in reliance on financial holding
    company authority.

Privacy,
    Fair Credit Reporting  

We use information about our customers to develop and make
    available relevant, personalized products and services.
    Customers are given choices about how we use and disclose their
    information, and we give them notice regarding the measures we
    take to safeguard this information. Regulatory activity in the
    areas of privacy and data security continues to increase
    worldwide, spurred by advancements in technology and related
    concerns about the rapid and widespread dissemination and use of
    information. Our regulatory examiners, as well as our auditors,
    are increasingly focused on ensuring that our privacy and data
    security/access control policies and practices are adequate to
    inform our customers of our data uses and to protect their
    personal data.

48

Table of Contents   

As noted above, as part of our efforts to enhance payment
    account data security, in 2006, we and several other payment
    card networks formed the PCI SSC, an independent
    standards-setting organization to manage the evolution of the
    PCI Data Security Standard, which helps organizations that
    process card payments to prevent credit/charge card security
    breaches and fraud through increased controls around data and
    its exposure to compromise.

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ( GLBA ) became effective
    on July 1, 2001. The GLBA requires consumer notice of a
    financial institution s privacy policies and practices and
    affords customers the right to  opt out  of the
    institution s disclosure of their personal financial
    information to nonaffiliated third parties (with limited
    exceptions). This legislation does not preempt state laws that
    afford greater privacy protections to consumers, and several
    states have adopted such legislation. For example, in 2003
    California enacted that state s Financial Information
    Privacy Act, which requires (with limited exceptions)
     opt-in  consent from customers before their data may
    be disclosed to nonaffiliated third parties.

In addition, various federal banking regulatory agencies, and as
    many as 46 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico
    and the Virgin Islands, have enacted security breach laws and
    regulations, requiring varying levels of consumer notification
    in the event of a data security breach. Data breach laws are
    also becoming more prevalent in other parts of the world where
    we operate, including Japan, Mexico and Germany. In many
    countries that have yet to impose automatic data breach
    notification requirements, regulators have increasingly used the
    threat of significant sanctions and penalties by data protection
    authorities to encourage voluntary notification and discourage
    data breaches.

Beyond these data breach laws, we are subject to the GLBA s
    requirements to safeguard customer information, and to a growing
    number of state laws (including in Massachusetts and Nevada)
    that impose broad-ranging data security obligations regarding
    the protection of customer and employee data. In 1995, the
    European Parliament and Council passed European Directive
    95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with regard to the
    processing of personal data and on the free movement of such
    data (commonly referred to as the Data Protection Directive),
    which obligates the controller of an individual s personal
    data to, among other things, take the necessary technical and
    organizational steps to protect personal data. Compliance with
    these various laws could result in higher technology,
    administrative and other costs for the Company. In July 2010, we
    submitted for review by relevant European data protection
    authorities our draft binding corporate rules for processing of
    data within the American Express group which, once approved,
    will enable a more efficient basis on which to transfer data
    within our group. The European Commission is currently assessing
    the need for further changes to the European Union s data
    protection regime.

We continue our efforts to safeguard the data entrusted to us in
    accordance with applicable law and our internal data protection
    policies, including taking steps to reduce the potential for
    identity theft or other fraud, while seeking to collect and use
    data properly to achieve our business objectives. We also have
    undertaken measures to assess the level of access to customer
    data by our employees and our partners and service providers,
    and to ensure that such access is limited to the least
    privileged level necessary to perform their job or function for
    the Company.

The FCRA regulates the disclosure of consumer credit reports by
    consumer reporting agencies and the use of consumer credit
    report information by banks and other companies. Among other
    things, FCRA places restrictions (with limited exceptions) on
    the sharing and use of certain personal financial and
    creditworthiness information of our customers with and by our
    affiliates.

FCRA was significantly amended by the enactment in December 2003
    of the FACT Act. The FACT Act requires any company that receives
    information concerning a consumer from an affiliate, subject to
    certain exceptions, to permit the consumer to opt out from
    having that information used to market the company s
    products to the consumer. In November 2007, the federal banking
    agencies issued a final rule implementing the affiliate
    marketing provisions of the FACT Act. Companies subject to
    oversight by these agencies were required to comply with the
    rules by October 1, 2008. The Company has implemented
    various mechanisms to allow our customers to opt out of
    affiliate sharing and of marketing by the Company and our
    affiliates, and it continues to review and enhance these
    mechanisms to ensure compliance with applicable law and a
    favorable customer experience.

49

Table of Contents   

The FACT Act further amended the FCRA by adding several new
    provisions designed to prevent or decrease identity theft and to
    improve the accuracy of consumer credit information. The federal
    banking agencies and the Federal Trade Commission
    ( FTC ) published a final rule in November 2007
    requiring financial institutions to implement a program
    containing reasonable policies and procedures to address the
    risk of identity theft and to identify accounts where identity
    theft is more likely to occur. Companies subject to oversight by
    the federal banking agencies originally were required to comply
    with the rule by November 1, 2008, but the FTC suspended
    enforcement of its rule through December 31, 2010 pending
    legislation to clarify the law s scope. On
    December 18, 2010, the President signed the Red Flag
    Program Clarification Act of 2010 into law. The Company s
    internal policies and standards, as well as our enterprise-wide
    data security and fraud prevention programs, comply with the new
    identity theft requirements.

The FACT Act also imposes duties on both consumer reporting
    agencies and on businesses that furnish or use information
    contained in consumer credit reports. For example, a furnisher
    of information is required to implement procedures to prevent
    the reporting of any information that it learns is the result of
    identity theft. Also, if a consumer disputes the accuracy of
    information provided to a consumer reporting agency, the
    furnisher of that information must conduct an investigation and
    respond to the consumer in a timely fashion. The federal banking
    regulatory agencies and the FTC have issued rules that specify
    the circumstances under which furnishers of information would be
    required to investigate disputes regarding the accuracy of the
    information provided to a consumer reporting agency. The FACT
    Act also requires grantors of credit that use consumer credit
    report information in making a determination to offer a borrower
    credit on terms that are  materially less favorable 
    than the terms offered to most of the lender s other
    customers to notify the borrower that the terms are based on a
    consumer credit report. In such a case the borrower is entitled
    to receive a free copy of the report from the consumer reporting
    agency. The federal bank regulatory agencies and the FTC have
    issued rules that specify the circumstances under which
     risk-based pricing  notices must be provided to
    customers and the content, format and timing of such notices.
    Dodd-Frank will require, effective July 21, 2011, the
    addition of certain information about credit scores to
     risk-based pricing  notices and to adverse action
    notices otherwise required by the FCRA. Grantors of credit using
    prescreened consumer credit report information in credit
    solicitations are also required to include an enhanced notice to
    consumers that they have the right to opt out from receiving
    further prescreened offers of credit. The enactment of the FACT
    Act and the promulgation of rules implementing it are not
    expected to have a significant impact on our business or
    practices.

The CARD
    Act  

In May 2009, the CARD Act was enacted to prohibit certain
    practices for consumer credit card accounts. The CARD Act, among
    other requirements, prohibits issuers from treating a payment as
    late for any purpose, including increasing the APR or imposing a
    fee, unless a consumer has been provided a  reasonable
    amount of time  to make the payment. It also requires
    issuers to apply payment amounts in excess of the minimum
    payment first to the balance with the highest APR and then to
    balances with lower APRs. In addition, the Act prohibits an
    issuer from increasing the APR on outstanding balances, except
    in limited circumstances such as when a promotional rate
    expires, a variable rate adjusts, or an account is seriously
    delinquent or completes a workout arrangement. These
    requirements became effective on February 22, 2010.

The CARD Act also requires issuers to maintain reasonable
    written policies to consider a consumer s income or assets
    and current obligations prior to opening an account or
    increasing a credit line. This required minor adjustments to our
    account opening decisioning and line increase decisioning
    processes. This requirement became effective on
    February 22, 2010, and to date has not had any significant
    impact on these decisions. In addition, applicants for new
    accounts who are under the age of 21 must demonstrate an
    independent ability to make the required minimum periodic
    payments. On October 19, 2010, the Federal Reserve proposed
    clarifications to its rules implementing the CARD Act, which
    would include a requirement that applicants who are 21 and over
    must also demonstrate an independent ability to make the
    required monthly minimum payments. Issuers would not be
    permitted to consider household income or assets, but only the
    individual income or assets of the applicant. If adopted as
    proposed, this rule may decrease the number of applications for
    our Cards that are approved for applicants who do not have
    sufficient individual income, even

50

Table of Contents   

though their household income may be sufficient for approval.
    Since August 22, 2010, the CARD Act requires that penalty
    fees be reasonable and proportional. While the Company has
    adjusted penalty fees (late fees and returned payment fees)
    accordingly, this requirement is not expected to have any
    significant impact on results of operations.

Also, since August 22, 2010, the CARD Act requires issuers
    to periodically reevaluate APR increases to determine if a
    decrease is appropriate. The first of these reevaluations must
    be completed in February 2011. The obligation to periodically
    reevaluate APR increases is ongoing, and it is uncertain how
    these provisions will be interpreted or amended by the new
    Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Therefore, while the
    ultimate impact of this requirement is uncertain at this time,
    it could have a significant impact on our results of operations.

The Federal Reserve also amended its rules on the format and
    content of consumer credit card disclosures. The amendments
    required revisions to the format and content of all main types
    of open-end consumer credit disclosures, including applications
    and solicitations, account-opening disclosures, and periodic
    billing statements. These amendments became effective on
    July 1, 2010.

Certain provisions of the CARD Act also apply to stored value
    and prepaid products sold on or after August 22, 2010. In
    March 2010, the Federal Reserve amended its Regulation E to
    impose new restrictions on the ability to impose dormancy,
    inactivity or service fees with respect to gift certificates,
    store gift cards and general-use prepaid cards issued primarily
    for personal use. Such fees may only be imposed under certain
    conditions. Additionally, the rules prohibit the sale or
    issuance of a gift certificate, store gift card or general-use
    prepaid card that has an expiration date of less than five years
    after either the date a certificate or card is issued or the
    date on which funds were last loaded. The rules also require
    implementation of policies and procedures to give consumers a
    reasonable opportunity to purchase a certificate or card with at
    least five years before the certificate or card expiration date,
    prohibit any fees for replacing an expired certificate or card
    or refunding the remaining balance as long as the underlying
    funds remain valid, and require additional disclosures for any
    fee other than a dormancy, inactivity or service fee.

While the Company has made certain changes to our product terms
    and practices designed to comply with the CARD Act, the
    long-term impact of the CARD Act on the Company s business
    practices and revenues will depend upon a number of factors,
    including our ability to successfully implement our business
    strategies, consumer behavior and the actions of the
    Company s competitors, which are difficult to predict at
    this time. If the Company is not able to lessen the impact of
    the changes required by the CARD Act, it will have a material
    adverse effect on results of operations.

Anti-Money
    Laundering Compliance  

In the United States, the USA Patriot Act was enacted in October
    2001 in the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist
    attacks. The Patriot Act, in addition to substantially
    broadening existing AML and terrorist financing legislation,
    amended the Bank Secrecy Act, the primary legislation governing
    AML requirements. The Patriot Act contains a wide variety of
    provisions aimed at fighting terrorism and money laundering,
    including provisions aimed at impeding terrorists  ability
    to access and move funds used in support of terrorist
    activities. Among other things, the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended
    by the Patriot Act, requires financial institutions to establish
    AML programs that meet certain standards, including, in some
    instances, expanded reporting and enhanced information gathering
    and recordkeeping requirements. While American Express has long
    maintained AML programs in our businesses, certain of our
    business activities are subject to specific AML regulations that
    prescribe minimum standards for components of the AML programs.
    For example, our GNS business maintains a risk-based program to
    ensure that institutions that are licensed to issue cards or
    acquire merchants on their networks maintain adequate AML
    controls. We have also developed and implemented a Know Your
    Customer, or due diligence, program and an enhanced due
    diligence program, including a program for verifying the
    identity of our customers for applicable businesses. We will
    take steps to comply with any additional regulations or
    initiatives that are adopted, whether in the United States or in
    other jurisdictions in which we conduct business.

51

Table of Contents   

Over the last several years, the industry has seen increased
    regulatory scrutiny of the AML compliance programs of financial
    institutions, with emphasis on record keeping and reporting
    requirements such as the requirement to identify and report
    suspicious activity, leading to enforcement actions and
    increased penalties for non-compliance. To meet this increased
    scrutiny, we continue to enhance our enterprise-wide AML
    compliance program. Our AML compliance programs primarily
    consist of risk-based policies, procedures and controls that are
    reasonably designed to prevent, detect and report money
    laundering.

We have significant operations in the European Union, including
    a number of regulated businesses. We monitor developments in EU
    legislation, as well as in the other countries in which we
    operate, to ensure that we are in a position to comply with all
    applicable legal requirements, including European Union
    directives applicable to payment institutions, credit providers,
    insurance intermediaries and other financial institutions.

Office of
    Foreign Assets Control Regulation  

The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect
    transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and
    others. These are typically known as the  OFAC  rules,
    and they are administered by the U.S. Department of
    Treasury s Office of Foreign Assets Control
    ( OFAC ). The OFAC-administered sanctions take many
    different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of
    the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or
    investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions
    against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a
    sanctioned country and prohibitions on
     U.S. persons  engaging in financial transactions
    relating to making investments in, or providing
    investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned
    country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the
    government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned
    country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property
    subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the
    possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets
    (e.g., property or bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn,
    set off or transferred in any manner without a license from
    OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious
    legal and reputational consequences.

Compensation
    Practices  

Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the
    Federal Reserve. In June 2010, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the
    FDIC and the OTS jointly issued final guidance on sound
    incentive compensation policies that applies to all banking
    organizations supervised by the Federal Reserve, including bank
    holding companies, such as the Company, as well as all insured
    depository institutions, including Centurion Bank and AEBFSB.
    The final guidance sets forth three key principles for incentive
    compensation arrangements that are designed to help ensure that
    incentive compensation plans do not encourage excessive
    risk-taking and are consistent with the safety and soundness of
    banking organizations. The three principles provide that a
    banking organization s incentive compensation arrangements
    should provide incentives that appropriately balance risk and
    financial results in a manner that does not encourage employees
    to expose their organizations to imprudent risks, be compatible
    with effective internal controls and risk management, and be
    supported by strong corporate governance, including active and
    effective oversight by the organization s board of
    directors. Any deficiencies in compensation practices of a
    banking institution that are identified by the Federal Reserve
    or other bank regulatory agencies in connection with its review
    of such organization s compensation practices may be
    incorporated into the organization s supervisory ratings,
    which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform
    other actions. The final guidance provides that enforcement
    actions may be taken against a banking organization if its
    incentive compensation arrangements or related risk-management
    control or governance processes pose a risk to the
    organization s safety and soundness and the organization is
    not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the
    deficiencies.

Additionally, on February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a
    notice of proposed rulemaking pursuant to Dodd-Frank on
    incentive-based compensation practices. The proposed rule is a
    joint rulemaking by the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the
    OTS, the SEC, the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the
    National Credit Union Administration, which each must
    independently approve the proposed rule before it is published
    for comment. Under the proposed rule, all financial institutions
    with total consolidated assets of $1 billion or more (such
    as the Company, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB) would be prohibited
    from offering incentive-based compensation arrangements that
    encourage inappropriate risk taking by offering
     excessive  compensation or

52

Table of Contents   

compensation that could lead the company to material financial
    loss. All covered institutions would be required to provide
    federal regulators with additional disclosures to determine
    compliance with the proposed rule and also to maintain policies
    and procedures to ensure compliance. Additionally, for covered
    institutions with at least $50 billion in total
    consolidated assets, such as the Company, the proposed rule
    requires that at least 50% of certain executive officers 
    incentive-based compensation be deferred for a minimum of three
    years and provides for the adjustment of deferred payments to
    reflect actual losses or other measures of performance that
    become known during the deferral period. Moreover, the board of
    directors of a covered institution with at least
    $50 billion in total consolidated assets must identify
    employees who have authority to expose an institution to
    substantial risk, evaluate and document the incentive-based
    compensation methods used to balance risk and financial rewards
    for the identified employees, and approve incentive-based
    compensation arrangements for those employees after
    appropriately considering other available methods for balancing
    risk and financial rewards. The form and timing of any final
    rule cannot be determined at this time.

Our compensation practices are affected by Dodd-Frank amendments
    to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange
    Act ) requiring a non-binding
      say-on-pay  
    vote to be provided at least once every three years at a
    shareholders  meeting and a non-binding shareholder vote to
    be provided at least once every six years to determine the
    frequency of
     say-on-pay 
    votes. These votes must be provided at meetings of shareholders
    occurring after January 21, 2011. In addition, Dodd-Frank
    requires proxy statement disclosure of compensation arrangements
    requiring payments to named executive officers upon a change in
    control ( golden parachutes ) if shareholders are
    voting on a merger or similar transaction, as well as a separate
    non-binding vote to approve golden parachute compensation
    arrangements that had not previously been subject to a
     say-on-pay 
    vote. The golden parachute disclosure and vote is required in
    proxy statements and other schedules and forms initially filed
    on or after April 25, 2011.

The scope and content of these policies and regulations on
    executive compensation are continuing to develop and are likely
    to continue evolving in the near future. It cannot be determined
    at this time whether compliance with such policies and
    regulations will adversely affect the ability of American
    Express and its subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate its
    and their key employees.

Foreign
    Corrupt Practices Act  

Our international operations are subject to complex
    international and U.S. laws and regulations, including the
    Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the  FCPA ) and local
    laws that prohibit the making or offering of improper payments
    to foreign government officials, political parties or political
    party officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining
    business or an improper advantage. The anti-corruption
    provisions of the FCPA are enforced by DOJ. The FCPA also
    requires us to strictly comply with certain accounting and
    internal controls standards enforced by the SEC. In recent
    years, DOJ and SEC enforcement of the FCPA has become more
    intense. Failure to comply with the FCPA and other laws can
    expose us and/or individual employees to potentially severe
    criminal and civil penalties. The risk may be greater when we
    transact business, whether through subsidiaries or joint
    ventures or other partnerships, in countries with higher
    perceived levels of corruption. We have policies and procedures
    designed to detect and deter prohibited practices, provide
    specialized training, monitor our operations and payments
    globally, and investigate allegations of improprieties relating
    to transactions and the manner in which transactions are
    recorded. However, if our employees, contractors or agents fail
    to comply with applicable laws governing our international
    operations, the Company, as well as individual employees, may
    face investigations or prosecutions, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition or results of
    operations.

FOREIGN
    OPERATIONS  

We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the use of
    our Card products, Travelers Cheques, travel and other financial
    products and services in countries outside the United States and
    continue to broaden the use of these products and services
    outside the United States. (For a discussion of our revenue by
    geographic region, see Note 25 to our Consolidated
    Financial Statements, which you can find on
     pages 114-116 
    of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders and which is
    incorporated herein by reference.)

53

Table of Contents   

Our revenues can be affected by political and economic
    conditions in these countries (including the availability of
    foreign exchange for the payment by the local Card issuer of
    obligations arising out of local Cardmembers  spending
    outside such country, for the payment of Card bills by
    Cardmembers who are billed in other than their local currency,
    and for the remittance of the proceeds of Travelers Cheque
    sales). Substantial and sudden devaluation of local
    Cardmembers  currency can also affect their ability to make
    payments to the local issuer of the Card in connection with
    spending outside the local country.

As a result of our foreign operations, we are exposed to the
    possibility that, because of foreign exchange rate fluctuations,
    assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the
    U.S. dollar may be realized in amounts greater or less than
    the U.S. dollar amounts at which they are currently
    recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Examples of
    transactions in which this may occur include the purchase by
    Cardmembers of goods and services in a currency other than the
    currency in which they are billed; the sale in one currency of a
    Travelers Cheque denominated in a second currency; and, in most
    instances, investments in foreign operations. These risks,
    unless properly monitored and managed, could have an adverse
    effect on our operations. For more information on how we manage
    risk relating to foreign exchange, see  Risk
    Management   Market Risk Management Process  on
     pages 48-49 
    of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is
    incorporated herein by reference.

SALE OF
    AMERICAN EXPRESS BANK LTD. / DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

On September 18, 2007, we entered into an agreement to sell
    our international banking subsidiary, American Express Bank Ltd.
    ( AEBL ), to Standard Chartered PLC ( Standard
    Chartered ), and to sell American Express International
    Deposit Company ( AEIDC ) through a put/call agreement
    to Standard Chartered 18 months after the close of the AEBL
    sale. The sale of AEBL was completed on February 29, 2008.
    In the third quarter of 2008, AEIDC qualified to be reported as
    a discontinued operation and the sale of AEIDC was completed on
    September 10, 2009.

For all periods presented, all of the operating results, assets
    and liabilities, and cash flows of AEBL (except for certain
    components of AEBL that were not sold) and AEIDC have been
    removed from the Corporate   Other segment and are
    presented separately in discontinued operations in the
    Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. The Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements have been adjusted to
    exclude discontinued operations unless otherwise noted.

You can find more information regarding this transaction in
    Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, appearing
    on page 75 of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, which
    is incorporated herein by reference.

SEGMENT
    INFORMATION AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR SERVICES  

You can find information regarding the Company s reportable
    operating segments, geographic operations and classes of similar
    services in Note 25 to our Consolidated Financial
    Statements, which appears on
     pages 114-116 
    of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, which Note is
    incorporated herein by reference.

EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY  

Set forth below in alphabetical order is a list of all our
    executive officers as of February 25, 2011. None of our
    executive officers has any family relationship with any other
    executive officer, and none of our executive officers became an
    officer pursuant to any arrangement or understanding with any
    other person. Each executive

54

Table of Contents   

officer has been elected to serve until the next annual election
    of officers or until his or her successor is elected and
    qualified. Each officer s age is indicated by the number in
    parentheses next to his or her name.

DOUGLAS E. BUCKMINSTER  

President, International Consumer and Small Business Services

Mr. Buckminster (50) has been President, International
    Consumer and Small Business Services of the Company since
    November 2009. Prior thereto he had been Executive Vice
    President, International Consumer Products and Marketing since
    July 2002.

KENNETH I. CHENAULT  

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Mr. Chenault (59) has been Chairman since April 2001
    and Chief Executive Officer since January 2001.

L. KEVIN COX  

Executive Vice President, Human Resources

Mr. Cox (46) has been Executive Vice President, Human
    Resources of the Company since April 2005. Prior thereto, he had
    been Executive Vice President of The Pepsi Bottling Group since
    September 2004.

EDWARD P. GILLIGAN  

Vice Chairman

Mr. Gilligan (51) has been Vice Chairman of the
    Company and head of the Company s Global Consumer and Small
    Business Card Issuing, Network and Merchant businesses since
    October 2009. Prior thereto, he had been Vice Chairman of the
    Company and head of the Company s Global Business to
    Business Group since July 2007. Prior thereto, he had been Group
    President, American Express International   Global
    Corporate Services since July 2005. Prior thereto, he had been
    Group President, Global Corporate Services since June 2000 and
    Group President, Global Corporate Services  
    International Payments, since July 2003.

WILLIAM H. GLENN  

President, Global Merchant Services

Mr. Glenn (53) has been President, Global Merchant
    Services since June 2007. Prior thereto, he had been President
    of Merchant Services North America and Global Merchant Network
    Group since September 2002.

ASH GUPTA  

Chief Risk Officer and President, Risk and Information
    Management

Mr. Gupta (57) has been President of Risk, Information
    Management and Banking Group and Chief Risk Officer since July
    2007. Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President and
    Chief Risk Officer of the Company since July 2003.

JOHN D. HAYES  

Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer

Mr. Hayes (56) has been Executive Vice President since
    May 1995 and Chief Marketing Officer of the Company since August
    2003.

DANIEL T. HENRY  

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Mr. Henry (61) has been Executive Vice President and
    Chief Financial Officer of the Company since October 2007. Since
    February 2007, Mr. Henry had been serving as Executive Vice
    President and Acting Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
    Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer, U.S. Consumer, Small Business and
    Merchant Services since October 2005 and Executive Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer, U.S. Consumer and
    Small Business Services since August 2000.

LOUISE M. PARENT  

Executive Vice President and General Counsel

Ms. Parent (60) has been Executive Vice President and
    General Counsel since May 1993.

THOMAS SCHICK  

Executive Vice President, Corporate and External Affairs

Mr. Schick (64) has been Executive Vice President,
    Corporate and External Affairs since March 1993.

55

Table of Contents   

DANIEL H. SCHULMAN  

Group President, Enterprise Growth

Mr. Schulman (53) has been Group President, Enterprise
    Growth since August 2010. Mr. Schulman joined American
    Express from Sprint Nextel Corporation, where he served as
    President of the Prepaid group from 2009 until August 2010.
    Before joining Sprint, Mr. Schulman was the founding CEO of
    Virgin Mobile USA, a mobile virtual operator, acquired by Sprint
    in 2009. Prior to that he was CEO of priceline.com and spent the
    early part of his career with AT T, where he ultimately led
    the company s consumer long distance business.

STEPHEN J. SQUERI  

Group President, Global Services

Mr. Squeri (51) has been Group President, Global
    Services, since October 2009. From May 2005 to October 2009, he
    served as Executive Vice President and Chief Information
    Officer. In addition, from July 2008 to September 2010, he was
    the head of Corporate Development, overseeing mergers and
    acquisitions activities for the Company. Prior thereto, he had
    been President, Global Commercial Card   Global
    Corporate Services since January 2002.

EMPLOYEES  

We had approximately 61,000 employees on December 31,
    2010.

GUIDE
    3   STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING
    COMPANIES  

The accompanying supplemental information should be read in
    conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the
    Company s 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, which
    information is incorporated herein by reference ( Annual
    Report ). This information excludes discontinued operations
    unless otherwise noted.

Upon adoption of new GAAP governing transfers of financial
    assets and consolidation of variable interest entities
    ( VIEs ), the Company was required to change its
    accounting for the American Express Credit Account Master Trust
    (the  Lending Trust ), a previously unconsolidated
    VIE, which is now consolidated. As a result, beginning
    January 1, 2010, the securitized cardmember loans and
    related debt securities issued to third parties by the Lending
    Trust are included on the Company s Consolidated Balance
    Sheet. The Company continues to consolidate the American Express
    Issuance Trust (the  Charge Trust ). Prior period
    results have not been revised for the change in accounting for
    the Lending Trust. Refer to Note 1  Summary of
    Significant Accounting Policies  on page 72 and
    Note 7  Asset Securitizations  on page 85 of
    the Annual Report for further discussion.

56

Table of Contents   

DISTRIBUTION
    OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, AND SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY; INTEREST
    RATES AND INTEREST DIFFERENTIAL  

The following tables provide a summary of the Company s
    consolidated average balances including major categories of
    interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities along
    with an analysis of net interest earnings. Consolidated average
    balances, interest, and average yields are segregated between
    U.S. and
     non-U.S. offices. 
    Assets, liabilities, interest income and interest expense are
    attributed to U.S. and
     non-U.S. based 
    on location of the office recording such items.

57

Table of Contents   

(a)  

Averages based on month end balances, except reserves for
    cardmember and other receivables/loans, which are based on
    quarter end averages. 

(b)  

Amounts include (i) average interest-bearing restricted
    cash balances of $1,570 million, $417 million, and
    $214 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which
    are included in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets,
    and (ii) the associated interest income. 

(c)  

Interest bearing deposits in other banks  and
     cash and due from banks  have been revised for book
    overdraft misclassifications in 2009 and 2008, as described in
    Note 1  Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies  on page 72 of the Annual Report. 

(d)  

Card fees related to cardmember loans included in interest
    income were $115 million, $107 million, and
    $95 million in U.S. and $105 million, $79 million
    and $51 million in
     non-U.S.  for
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

(e)  

Average non-accrual loans were included in the average loan
    balances used to determine the average yield on loans in amounts
    of $839 million, $554 million and $8 million in
    U.S. as well as $11 million, $15 million and
    $6 million in
     non-U.S.  for
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

(f)  

Average yields for
     available-for-sale 
    investment securities have been calculated using total amortized
    cost balances and do not include changes in fair value recorded
    in other comprehensive (loss) income. Average yield on
    non-taxable investment securities is calculated on a
    tax-equivalent basis using the U.S. federal statutory tax rate
    of 35 percent. 

(g)  

Amounts include (i) average equity securities balances,
    which are included in investment securities on the Consolidated
    Balance Sheets, and (ii) the associated dividend income.
    The average yield on other assets has not been shown as it would
    not be meaningful. 

(h)  

The average yield on total interest-earning assets is adjusted
    for the impacts of items mentioned in (f) above. 

(i)  

Includes premises and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation. 

58

Table of Contents   

(a)  

Averages based on month end balances. 

(b)  

Interest expense incurred on derivative instruments in
    qualifying hedging relationships has been reported along with
    the related interest expense incurred on the hedged debt
    instrument. 

59

Table of Contents   

(c)  

Amounts include (i) average deferred compensation liability
    balances which are included in other liabilities on the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets, and (ii) the associated
    interest expense. The average rate on other liabilities has not
    been shown as it would not be meaningful. 

(d)  

Accounts payable  and  other liabilities 
    have been revised for book overdraft misclassifications in 2009
    and 2008, as further described in Note 1  Summary of
    Significant Accounting Policies  on page 72 of the
    Annual Report. 

(e)  

Net average yield on interest-earning assets is defined as net
    interest income divided by average total interest-earning assets
    as adjusted for the items mentioned in note (f) on page 58. 

CHANGES
    IN NET INTEREST INCOME -VOLUME AND RATE ANALYSIS (a)  

The following table presents the amount of changes in interest
    income and interest expense due to changes in both average
    volume and average rate. Major categories of interest-earning
    assets and interest-bearing liabilities have been segregated
    between U.S. and
     non-U.S. offices. 
    Average volume/rate changes have been allocated between the
    average rate and average volume variances on a consistent basis
    based upon the respective percentage changes in average balances
    and average rates.

60

Table of Contents   

(a)  

Refer to the notes on pages 58 and 59 for additional information. 

(b)  

Interest bearing deposits in other banks  has been
    revised for book overdraft misclassifications in 2009 and 2008,
    as described in Note 1  Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies  on page 72 of the Annual Report. 

INVESTMENT
    SECURITIES PORTFOLIO  

The following table presents the fair value of the
    Company s
     available-for-sale 
    investment securities portfolio. Refer to Note 6
     Investment Securities  on page 83 in the Annual
    Report for additional information.

61

Table of Contents   

The following table presents an analysis of remaining
    contractual maturities and weighted average yields for
     available-for-sale 
    investment securities. Yields on tax-exempt obligations have
    been computed on a tax-equivalent basis as discussed earlier.

(a)  

The expected payments on state and municipal obligations and
    mortgage-backed securities may not coincide with their
    contractual maturities because the issuers have the right to
    call or prepay certain obligations. 

(b)  

Excludes equity securities and other securities included in the
    prior table above as these are not debt securities with
    contractual maturities. 

(c)  

Average yields for
     available-for-sale 
    investment securities have been calculated using the effective
    yield on the date of purchase. 

As of December 31, 2010, U.S. Government treasury and
    agency obligations were the only investments that exceeded
    10 percent of shareholders  equity.

LOANS AND
    CARDMEMBER RECEIVABLES PORTFOLIOS  

The following table presents gross loans, net of unearned
    income, and gross cardmember receivables by customer type
    segregated between U.S. and
     non-U.S., 
    based on the domicile of the borrowers. Allowance for losses is
    presented beginning on page 67. Refer to Note 4
     Accounts Receivable and Loans  on page 78 and
    Note 5  Reserves for Losses  on page 81 in
    the Annual Report for additional information.

(a)  

Represents loans to individual and small business consumers. 

(b)  

Other loans at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 primarily
    represent small business installment loans, a store card
    portfolio whose billed business is not processed on the
    Company s network, and small business loans associated with
    the acquisition of Corporate Payment Services. Other loans at
    December 31, 2008,  

62

Table of Contents   

also included a loan to an affiliate in discontinued operations.
    2007 and prior periods primarily represent small business
    installment loans. 

(c)  

Represents receivables from individual and small business charge
    card consumers. 

(d)  

Represents receivables from corporate charge card clients. 

MATURITIES
    AND SENSITIVITIES TO CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES  

The following table presents contractual maturities of loans and
    cardmember receivables by customer type and segregated between
    U.S. and
     non-U.S. borrowers, 
    and distribution between fixed and floating interest rates for
    loans due after one year based upon the stated terms of the loan
    agreements.

(a)  

Cardmember loans have no stated maturity and are therefore
    included in the due within one year category. However, many of
    the Company s cardmembers will revolve their balances,
    which may extend their repayment period beyond one year for
    balances due at December 31, 2010. 

(b)  

Cardmember receivables are immediately due upon receipt of
    cardmember statements and have no stated interest rate and are
    included within the due within one year category. Receivables
    due after one year represent long-term modification programs or
    Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs), wherein the terms of a
    receivable have been modified for cardmembers that are
    experiencing financial difficulties and a long-term concession
    (more than 12 months) has been granted to the borrower. 

(c)  

Cardmember and other loans due after one year primarily
    represent installment loans and approximately $166 million
    of TDRs. 

63

Table of Contents   

CARDMEMBER
    LOAN AND CARDMEMBER RECEIVABLE CONCENTRATIONS  

The following table presents the Company s exposure to any
    concentration of gross cardmember loans and cardmember
    receivables which exceeds 10 percent of total cardmember
    loans and cardmember receivables. Cardmember loan and cardmember
    receivable concentrations are defined as cardmember loans and
    cardmember receivables due from multiple borrowers engaged in
    similar activities that would cause these borrowers to be
    impacted similarly to certain economic or other related
    conditions.

(a)  

Refer to Note 22  Significant Credit
    Concentrations  on page 110 in the Annual Report for
    additional information on concentrations, including exposure to
    the airline industry, and for a discussion of how the Company
    manages concentration exposures. Certain distinctions between
    categories require management judgment. 

(b)  

Includes corporate charge card receivables of $641 million
    from financial institutions, $21 million from U.S.
    Government agencies and $10.6 billion from other corporate
    institutions. 

(c)  

Because charge card products have no preset spending limit, the
    associated credit limit on cardmember receivables is not
    quantifiable. Therefore, the quantified unused
     line-of-credit 
    amounts only include the approximate credit line available on
    cardmember loans (including both for on-balance sheet loans and
    loans previously securitized). 

RISK
    ELEMENTS  

The following table presents the amounts of non-performing loans
    and cardmember receivables that are either non-accrual, past
    due, or restructured, segregated between U.S. and
     non-U.S. borrowers. 
    Past due loans are loans that are contractually past due
    90 days or more as to principal or interest payments.
    Restructured loans and cardmember receivables are those that
    meet the definition of  Troubled Debt Restructurings .

(a)  

The increase in impaired loans was due to the adoption of new
    GAAP effective January 1, 2010, which resulted in the
    consolidation of the Lending Trust as discussed further in
    Note 1  Summary of Significant  

64

Table of Contents   

Accounting Policies  on page 72 of the Annual Report.
    As a result of these changes, amounts as of December 31,
    2010 include impaired loans and receivables for both the Charge
    Trust and Lending Trust; correspondingly, amounts as of
    December 31, 2009 only include impaired loans and
    receivables for the Charge Trust and the seller s interest
    portion of the Lending Trust. Amounts as of both balance sheet
    dates also include impaired loans and receivables associated
    with other non-securitized portfolios. 

(b)  

The Company s policy is generally to cease accruing
    interest income once a related cardmember loan is 180 days
    past due at which time the cardmember loan is written off. The
    Company establishes loan loss reserves for estimated
    uncollectible interest receivable balances prior to write-off.
    Beginning with 2009, certain cardmember loans placed with
    outside collection agencies are put on non-accrual status. 

(c)  

As of December 31, 2009, these amounts primarily include
    certain cardmember loans placed with outside collection
    agencies. Non-accrual loans at December 31, 2006 and 2005
    included a single loan to a U.S. commercial airline of
    approximately $104 million and $266 million,
    respectively, which was paid off in full during the second
    quarter of 2007. The loan was put on non-accrual status in the
    third quarter of 2005. 

(d)  

Represents long-term and short-term modification programs or
    TDRs, wherein the terms of a loan or receivable have been
    modified for cardmembers that are experiencing financial
    difficulties and a concession has been granted to the borrower.
    The Company may modify cardmember loans and receivables and such
    modifications may include reducing the interest rate/delinquency
    fees on the loans and receivables and/or placing the cardmember
    on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months. If the
    cardmember does not comply with the modified terms, then the
    loan or receivable agreement reverts back to its original terms. 

(e)  

Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made
    to conform to the current presentation. 

IMPACT OF
    NON-PERFORMING LOANS ON INTEREST INCOME  

The following table presents the gross interest income for both
    non-accrual and restructured loans for 2010 that would have been
    recognized if such loans had been current in accordance with
    their original contractual terms, and had been outstanding
    throughout the period or since origination if held for only part
    of 2010. The table also presents the interest income related to
    these loans that was actually recognized for the period. These
    amounts are segregated between U.S. and
     non-U.S. borrowers. 

(a)  

Based on the contractual rate that was being charged at the time
    the loan was restructured or placed on non-accrual status. 

POTENTIAL
    PROBLEM RECEIVABLES  

This disclosure presents outstanding amounts as well as specific
    reserves for certain receivables where information about
    possible credit problems of borrowers causes management to have
    serious doubts as to the ability of such borrowers to comply
    with the present repayment terms. At December 31, 2010, the
    Company did not identify any potential problem loans or
    receivables within the cardmember loans and receivables
    portfolio that were not already included in  Risk
    Elements  above.

CROSS-BORDER
    OUTSTANDINGS  

Cross-border disclosure is based upon the Federal Financial
    Institutions Examination Council s ( FFIEC )
    guidelines governing the determination of cross-border risk. The
    Company has adopted the FFIEC guidelines for its cross-border
    disclosure starting with 2009 reporting.

65

Table of Contents   

The primary differences between the FFIEC and Guide 3 guidelines
    for reporting cross-border exposure are:
     i) available-for-sale 
    investment securities are reported based on amortized cost for
    FFIEC instead of fair value for Guide 3; ii) net local
    country claims are reduced by local country liabilities
    (regardless of currency denomination) excluding any debt that is
    funding the local assets through a foreign domiciled subsidiary
    for FFIEC compared to Guide 3 where only amounts in the same
    currencies are offset and such debt noted above is a reduction
    to local country claims; iii) the FFIEC methodology
    includes
     mark-to-market 
    exposures of derivative assets which are excluded under Guide 3;
    and iv) investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries are
    included under FFIEC but excluded under Guide 3.

The following table presents the aggregate amount of
    cross-border outstandings from borrowers or counterparties for
    each foreign country that exceeds 1 percent of consolidated
    total assets for any of the periods reported below. Cross-border
    outstandings include loans, receivables, interest-bearing
    deposits with other banks, other interest-bearing investments
    and other monetary assets that are denominated in either dollars
    or other non-local currency.

The table separately presents the amounts of cross-border
    outstandings by type of borrower including governments and
    official institutions, banks and other financial institutions
    and other, along with an analysis of local country assets net of
    local country liabilities.

(a)  

In 2010, only Mexico cross-border outstandings are between
    0.75 percent and 1.0 percent of consolidated total
    assets. Italy and Sweden were also included within 2009 or 2008
    as they exceeded the threshold, to be consistent with prior year
    presentation. 

(b)  

Generally, all charge and credit cards have revocable lines of
    credit, and therefore, are not disclosed as cross-border
    commitments. Refer to loan concentrations on page 64 for
    amount of unused lines of credit. 

66

Table of Contents   

SUMMARY
    OF LOAN LOSS EXPERIENCE  

ANALYSIS
    OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES  

The following table summarizes the changes to the Company s
    allowance for cardmember loan losses. The table segregates such
    changes between U.S. and
     non-U.S. borrowers. 

(a)  

Refer to Note 5  Reserves for Losses  on
    page 81 in the Annual Report for a discussion of
    management s process for evaluating allowance for loan
    losses. 

(b)  

In the third quarter of 2008, the Company revised its method of
    reporting the cardmember lending net write-off rate.
    Historically, the net write-off rate has been presented using
    net write-off amounts for principal, interest, and fees.
    However, industry convention is generally to include only the
    net write-offs related to principal in write-off rate
    disclosures. The write-off rate for 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is
    a principal only write-off rate consistent with industry
    convention. The write-off rate for 2006 reflects principal only
    write-offs in the U.S. and total write-offs (principal,
    interest, and fees) outside the U.S. as principal only write-off
    information was not available outside the U.S. for 2006. 

(c)  

For purposes of calculating the net write-off rate in accordance
    with (b) above, net write-offs were $3.3 billion,
    $2.9 billion, $2.6 billion, $1.6 billion,
    $1.2 billion for
     2010-2006, 
    respectively. 

(d)  

Includes $160 million of reserves in 2009, that were
    removed in connection with securitizations during the year. The
    offset is in the allocated cost of the associated retained
    subordinated securities. This amount also includes foreign
    currency translation adjustments. The prior years included
    foreign currency translation and other adjustments primarily
    related to the reclassification of waived fee reserves to a
    contra-cardmember loan. 

(e)  

Average cardmember loans are based on month end balances. 

67

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes the changes to the Company s
    allowance for other loan losses. The table segregates such
    changes between U.S. and
     non-U.S. borrowers. 

(a)  

Provisions for other loan losses are determined based on a
    specific identification methodology and models that analyze
    specific portfolio statistics. 

(b)  

Includes primarily foreign currency translation adjustments. 

(c)  

The net write-off rate presented is on a worldwide basis and is
    based on write-offs of principal and fees. Average other loans
    are based on month end balances. 

68

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes the changes to the Company s
    allowance for losses on cardmember receivables. The table
    segregates such changes between U.S. and
     non-U.S. borrowers. 

69

Table of Contents   

(a)  

Refer to Note 5  Reserves for Losses  on
    page 81 in the Annual Report for a discussion of
    management s process for evaluating allowance for
    receivable losses. 

(b)  

In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company revised the time
    period in which past due cardmember receivables in U.S. Card
    Services are written off to 180 days past due, consistent
    with applicable regulatory guidance. Previously, receivables
    were written off when 360 days past billing. The net
    write-offs for 2008 include approximately $341 million
    resulting from this write-off methodology change. 

(c)  

Includes foreign currency translation and other adjustments
    primarily related to the reclassification of waived fee reserves
    to a contra-cardmember receivable. 

(d)  

The net write-off rate presented is on a worldwide basis and is
    based on write-offs of principal and fees. The U.S. Card
    Services write-off rate was 1.6 percent, for 2010. Averages
    are based on month end balances. 

(e)  

The net loss ratio represents the worldwide ratio of charge card
    write-offs consisting of principal (resulting from authorized
    and unauthorized transactions) and fee components, less
    recoveries, on cardmember receivables expressed as a percent of
    gross amounts billed to customers. As a result of the change
    discussed in (b) above, the Company stopped calculating the
    worldwide net loss ratio beginning in 2008 based on
    360 days past billing methodology. 

70

Table of Contents   

ALLOCATION
    OF ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES  

The following table presents an allocation of the allowance for
    losses for loans and cardmember receivables and the percent of
    loans and cardmember receivables in each category of total loans
    and cardmember receivables, respectively, by customer type. The
    table segregates loans and cardmember receivables and related
    allowances for losses between U.S. and
     non-U.S. borrowers. 

CUSTOMER
    DEPOSITS  

The following table presents the average balances and average
    interest rates paid for types of customer deposits segregated
    between U.S. and
     non-U.S. offices. 
    Refer to Note 9  Customer Deposits  on
    page 89 in the Annual Report for additional information.

(a)  

Averages are based on month end balances. 

(b)  

Other U.S. customer deposits include primarily
    non-interest-bearing and interest-bearing demand deposits. 

(c)  

Prior year numbers have been revised to conform to current year
    presentation. 

71

Table of Contents   

TIME
    CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT OF $100,000 OR MORE  

The following table presents the amount of time certificates of
    deposit of $100,000 or more issued by the Company in its
    U.S. offices, further segregated by time remaining until
    maturity.

As of December 31, 2010, time certificates of deposit and
    other time deposits in amounts of $100,000 or more issued by
     non-U.S. offices 
    was $291 million.

RETURN ON
    EQUITY AND ASSETS  

The following table presents the Company s return on
    average total assets, return on average shareholders 
    equity, dividend payout ratio, and average shareholders 
    equity to average total assets ratio.

(a)  

Effective January 1, 2009, guidance for determining whether
    instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are
    participating securities requires that restricted stock awards
    be included in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per
    share ( EPS ) pursuant to the two-class method.
    Accordingly, the Company has retrospectively adjusted EPS for
    2008. 

(b)  

Based on the year s net income as a percentage of average
    total assets calculated using month end average balances. 

(c)  

Based on the year s net income as a percentage of average
    shareholders  equity calculated using month end average
    balances. 

(d)  

Calculated on the year s dividends declared per share as a
    percentage of the year s net income per basic share. 

72

Table of Contents   

SHORT-TERM
    BORROWINGS  

The following table presents amounts and weighted average rates
    for categories of short-term borrowings. Refer to Note 10,
     Debt  on page 89 in the Annual Report for
    additional information.

(a)  

For floating rate debt issuances, the stated interest rates are
    based on the floating rates in effect as of December 31,
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

(b)  

Includes term federal funds purchased and overnight federal
    funds purchased. 

(c)  

Does not include non-interest-bearing short-term borrowings
    (i.e. book overdrafts). 

Short-term borrowings, including commercial paper and federal
    funds purchased, are defined as any debt instrument with an
    original maturity of 12 months or less. Federal funds
    purchased represent overnight and term funds as well as Federal
    Home Loan Bank advances. Commercial paper generally is issued in
    amounts not less than $100,000 and with maturities of
    270 days or less. Other short-term borrowings include
    certain book overdrafts (i.e., primarily timing differences
    arising in the ordinary course of business), short-term
    borrowings from banks, as well as interest-bearing amounts due
    to merchants in accordance with merchant service agreements.

ITEM 1A.    

RISK
    FACTORS  

This section highlights specific risks that could affect our
    Company and its businesses. You should carefully consider each
    of the following risks and all of the other information set
    forth in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    Based on the information currently known to us, we believe the
    following information identifies the most significant risk
    factors affecting our Company. However, the risks and
    uncertainties our Company faces are not limited to those
    described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not
    presently known to us or that we currently believe to be
    immaterial may also adversely affect our business.

If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into
    actual events or if the circumstances described in the risks and
    uncertainties occur or continue to occur, these events or
    circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition or results of operations. These
    events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of
    our securities.

Current
    Economic and Political Risks  

Difficult
    conditions in the global capital markets and economy generally,
    as well as political conditions in the United States and
    elsewhere, may materially adversely affect our business and
    results of operations.   

Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions
    in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in
    the United States and elsewhere around the world.

73

Table of Contents   

Ongoing concerns over the availability and cost of credit, the
    mortgage and real estate markets, sovereign debt crises, fear of
    a double-dip recession and geopolitical issues have contributed
    to uncertain expectations for the economy and the markets going
    forward. These factors, combined with still relatively low
    levels of consumer confidence and relatively high levels of
    unemployment, continue to impact global economies. This
    environment has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect
    on us, in part because we are very dependent upon consumer and
    business behavior. If the economy were to worsen, customer
    behaviors could change further. For example, Cardmembers could
    decide to redeem Membership Rewards points at abnormally high
    levels to replace cash expenditures.

Factors such as consumer spending, business investment,
    government spending, interest rates, the volatility and strength
    of the capital markets and inflation all affect the business and
    economic environment and, ultimately, our profitability. An
    economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower
    family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business
    investment and lower consumer spending is likely to materially
    and adversely affect our business, results of operations and
    financial condition. Furthermore, the factors discussed above
    may cause our earnings, credit metrics and margins to fluctuate
    and diverge from expectations of analysts and investors, who may
    have differing assumptions regarding their impact on our
    business, and may impact the trading price of our common shares.

Political or economic instability in certain regions or
    countries could also affect our commercial or other lending
    activities, among other businesses, or result in restrictions on
    convertibility of certain currencies. In addition, our travel
    network may be adversely affected by world geopolitical and
    other conditions. Travel expenditures are sensitive to business
    and personal discretionary spending levels and tend to decline
    during general economic downturns.

Terrorist attacks, intrusion into our infrastructure by
     hackers  or other catastrophic events may have a
    negative effect on our business. Because of our proximity to the
    World Trade Center, our headquarters were damaged as a result of
    the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Similar events
    or other disasters or catastrophic events in the future could
    have a negative effect on our businesses and infrastructure,
    including our information technology systems. Because we derive
    a portion of our revenues from travel-related spending, our
    business will be sensitive to safety concerns, and thus is
    likely to decline during periods in which travelers become
    concerned about safety issues or when travel might involve
    health-related risks.

We held approximately $5.8 billion of investment securities
    of state and municipal obligations as of December 31, 2010.
    In the event that actual default rates of these investment
    securities were to significantly change from historical patterns
    due to challenges in the economy or otherwise, it could have a
    material adverse impact on the value of our investment portfolio.

If the conditions described above (or similar ones) were to
    persist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased
    adverse effects on our results of operations and financial
    condition.

Adverse
    capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect
    our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost
    of capital.   

The global money and capital markets, while demonstrating
    generally improved conditions, remain susceptible to volatility
    and disruption, which could negatively impact market liquidity
    conditions.

We need liquidity to pay merchants, operating expenses, interest
    on debt and dividends on capital stock and to repay maturing
    liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to
    limit our investments in growth opportunities or curtail
    operations. The principal sources of our liquidity are payments
    from Cardmembers and merchants, cash flow from our investment
    portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that
    are readily convertible into cash, direct and third-party
    distributed deposits, debt instruments such as unsecured medium-
    and long-term notes and asset securitizations, securitized
    borrowings through our conduit facility, the Federal Reserve
    discount window and long-term committed bank borrowing
    facilities in certain countries outside the United States.

Notwithstanding our solid financial position, we are not immune
    from pressures experienced broadly across the financial markets.
    The fragility of the credit markets and the current economic and
    regulatory

74

Table of Contents   

environment have impacted financial services companies. Although
    the market for our unsecured term debt and asset securitizations
    has improved, there is no assurance that the markets will be
    open to us in the future. Therefore, our ability to obtain
    financing in the debt capital markets for unsecured term debt
    and asset securitizations is dependent on investor demand. In
    addition, our liquidity position will be impacted by our ability
    to meet our objectives with respect to the maintenance and
    growth of our direct and third-party distributed deposit
    programs. We also would have less flexibility in accessing the
    commercial paper market as a short-term funding vehicle in the
    event of a downgrade in Credco s short-term debt rating and
    volatility in the commercial paper market generally.

In the event that current sources of liquidity, including
    internal sources, do not satisfy our needs, we would be required
    to seek additional financing. The availability of additional
    financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market
    conditions, the general availability of credit and consumer
    deposits, the overall availability of credit to the financial
    services industry, our credit ratings (which were downgraded in
    April 2009 by two of the major ratings agencies), and credit
    capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders or depositors
    could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term
    financial prospects if we incur large credit losses or if the
    level of our business activity decreases due to an economic
    downturn.

Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory
    authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us.
    While we have experienced positive credit trends since the
    latter half of 2009, if the performance of our charge card and
    credit card portfolios were to weaken through increasing
    delinquencies and write-offs, our long-term and short-term debt
    ratings could be downgraded and our access to capital could be
    materially adversely affected and our cost of capital could
    increase. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital
    and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required
    to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our
    ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities,
    satisfy regulatory capital requirements and access the capital
    necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to
    delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost to raise
    capital, which could decrease profitability and significantly
    reduce financial flexibility. If levels of market disruption and
    volatility worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not
    experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our
    ability to access capital and on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.

For a further discussion of our liquidity and funding needs, see
     Financial Review   Funding Programs and
    Activities  on pages 42-46 of our 2010 Annual Report
    to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by
    reference.

We can
    be adversely affected by the impairment of other financial
    institutions.   

Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be
    adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of
    other financial services institutions. Financial services
    institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing,
    counterparty or other relationships. We routinely execute
    transactions with counterparties in the financial services
    industry, including commercial banks, investment banks and
    insurance companies. Defaults or non-performance by, or even
    rumors or questions about, one or more financial services
    institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have
    led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses
    or defaults by one or more of our counterparties, which, in
    turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations and financial condition.

Any
    reduction in the Company s and its subsidiaries 
    credit ratings could increase the cost of our funding from, and
    restrict our access to, the capital markets and have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
    condition.   

Although the Company s and its subsidiaries  long-term
    debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating
    agencies, the ratings of that debt were downgraded during the
    second quarter of 2009 by Moody s Investors Services
    ( Moody s ) and Standard   Poor s
    ( S P ), two of the major rating agencies. The
    rating agencies regularly evaluate the Company and its
    subsidiaries, and their ratings of the Company s and its
    subsidiaries  long-term and short-term debt are based on a
    number of factors, including their financial strength as well as
    factors not entirely within their control, including conditions
    affecting the financial services industry

75

Table of Contents   

generally, and the wider state of the economy. There can be no
    assurance that the Company and its subsidiaries will maintain
    their current respective ratings. Failure to maintain those
    ratings could, among other things, adversely limit our access to
    the capital markets and adversely affect the cost and other
    terms upon which the Company and its subsidiaries are able to
    obtain funding.

The ability of issuers of asset-backed securities to obtain
    necessary credit ratings for their issuances has historically
    been based, in part, on qualification under the FDIC s safe
    harbor rule for assets transferred in securitizations. In 2009
    and 2010, the FDIC issued a series of changes to its safe harbor
    rule, with its new final rule for its securitization safe
    harbor, issued in 2010, requiring issuers to comply with a new
    set of requirements in order to qualify for the safe harbor.
    Issuances out of our American Express Credit Account Master
    Trust are  grandfathered  under the new FDIC final
    rule. The trust for the Company s Cardmember charge
    receivable securitization (the  Charge Trust ) does
    not satisfy the criteria required to be covered by the
    FDIC s new safe harbor rule, nor did it meet the
    requirements to be covered by the safe harbor rule existing
    prior to 2009. It was structured and continues to be structured
    such that the financial assets transferred to the Charge Trust
    would not be deemed to be property of the originating banks in
    the event the FDIC is appointed as a receiver or conservator of
    the originating banks. The Company has received confirmation
    from Moody s, S P and Fitch Ratings, which rate
    issuances from the Charge Trust, that they will continue to rate
    issuances from the Charge Trust in the same manner as they have
    historically, even though they do not satisfy the requirements
    to be covered by the FDIC s safe harbor rule. Nevertheless,
    one or more of the rating agencies may ultimately conclude that
    in the absence of compliance with the safe harbor rule, the
    highest rating a Charge Trust security could receive would be
    based on the originating bank s unsecured debt rating. If
    one or more rating agencies come to this conclusion, it could
    adversely impact the Company s capacity and cost of using
    its Charge Trust as a source of funding for its business.

We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take. As with
    other companies in the financial services industry, the
    Company s and its subsidiaries  ratings could be
    downgraded at any time and without any notice by any of the
    rating agencies.

Adverse
    currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could
    decrease revenue we receive from our international
    operations.   

During 2010, over 33% of our revenue net of interest expense was
    generated from activities outside the United States. We are
    exposed to foreign exchange risk from our international
    operations, and some of the revenue we generate outside the
    United States is subject to unpredictable and indeterminate
    fluctuations if the values of other currencies change relative
    to the U.S. dollar. Resulting exchange gains and losses are
    included in our net income. Furthermore, we may become subject
    to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit
    the conversion of our other revenue currencies into
    U.S. dollars. The occurrence of any of these events or
    circumstances could decrease the revenues we receive from our
    international operations and have a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations.

Legal and
    Regulatory Risks  

Ongoing
    legal proceedings regarding the Company s
     anti-steering  and surcharging-related contractual
    provisions could require changes to those provisions that could
    result in a material loss of revenue or increased expenses,
    substantial monetary judgments and/or damage to the
    Company s global reputation and brand.   

The DOJ and certain state attorneys general have recently
    brought an action against the Company alleging that the
    provisions in the Company s card acceptance agreements with
    merchants that prohibit merchants from discriminating against
    the Company s card products at the point of sale violate
    the U.S. antitrust laws. Visa and MasterCard are also
    defendants in this proceeding, but they have entered into a
    proposed settlement, which is subject to judicial review and
    approval following a comment period. In addition, the Company is
    a defendant in a number of actions, including proposed class
    actions, filed by merchants that challenge the Company s
     anti-steering  provisions as well as
    surcharging-related provisions. Visa and MasterCard have been
    named as defendants in lawsuits that include similar allegations
    relating to their  anti-steering 
     and/or 

76

Table of Contents   

surcharging-related policies and rules. A description of these
    legal proceedings is contained in  Legal Proceedings 
    below. An adverse outcome in any of these proceedings against
    the Company could materially and adversely impact the
    profitability of the Company, require it to change its merchant
    agreements in a way that could expose the Company s card
    products to steering or other forms of discrimination at the
    point of sale that would impair our Cardmember s
    experience, result in the imposition of substantial monetary
    damages
     and/or 
    damage the Company s global reputation and brand. Even if
    the Company were not required to change its merchant agreements,
    changes in Visa and MasterCard s policies or practices as a
    result of any such legal proceedings or regulatory actions could
    subject the Company to market pressures that could materially
    and adversely impact its profitability.

The
    Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may
    have a significant adverse impact on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition.   

In July 2010, President Obama signed into law Dodd-Frank.
    Dodd-Frank, as well as regulations promulgated thereunder, could
    have a significant adverse impact on the Company s
    business, results of operations and financial condition by, for
    example, requiring the Company to change its business practices,
    requiring the Company to comply with more stringent capital,
    liquidity and leverage ratio requirements, limiting the
    Company s ability to pursue business opportunities,
    imposing additional costs on the Company (including increased
    compliance costs and increased costs of funding raised through
    the issuance of asset-backed securities), limiting the fees the
    Company can charge for services and impacting the value of the
    Company s assets. A description of certain provisions of
    Dodd-Frank and other legislative and regulatory developments is
    contained in  Supervision and Regulation  above.

Dodd-Frank will result in increased scrutiny and oversight of
    consumer financial services and products, primarily through the
    establishment of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau within
    the Federal Reserve. The Bureau will have broad rulemaking and
    enforcement authority over providers of credit, savings and
    payment services and products and authority to prevent
     unfair, deceptive or abusive  practices. The Bureau
    will write regulations under federal consumer financial
    protection laws, and enforce those laws against and examine
    large financial institutions like us, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB
    for compliance. The Bureau will collect fines and provide
    consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in
    consumer financial education, track consumer complaints, request
    data and promote the availability of financial services to
    underserved consumers and communities. Depending on how the
    Bureau functions and its areas of focus, it could have a
    material adverse impact on our businesses. In addition to
    increasing our compliance costs and potentially delaying our
    ability to respond to marketplace changes, this could result in
    requirements to alter our products and services that would make
    our products less attractive to consumers and impair our ability
    to offer them profitably. The impact this new regulatory regime
    will have on the Company s business is uncertain at this
    time and will depend on, among other things, the timing of the
    Bureau s assumption of its authority from other
    governmental agencies, which is expected to occur by
    July 21, 2011.

Under Dodd-Frank, the Federal Reserve is authorized to regulate
    interchange fees charged by payment card issuers for
    transactions in which a person uses a debit or general-use
    prepaid card, and to enforce a new statutory requirement that
    such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a
    transaction to the issuer, with specific allowances for the
    costs of fraud prevention, as well as to prohibit exclusive
    network routing restrictions for electronic debit transactions.
    Additionally, Dodd-Frank prohibits payment card networks from
    restricting merchants from offering discounts or incentives to
    encourage customers to pay with particular forms of payment such
    as cash, check, credit or debit card, provided that such offers
    do not discriminate on the basis of the network or issuer.
    Further, to the extent required by federal law or applicable
    state law, the discount or incentive must be offered to all
    prospective buyers and must be clearly and conspicuously
    disclosed. Dodd-Frank also permits U.S. merchants to
    establish minimum purchase amounts of no more than $10 for
    credit card purchases, provided that the merchants do not
    discriminate between networks or issuers. Federal government
    agencies and institutions of higher learning also are permitted
    to establish maximum amounts for credit card purchases provided
    they do not discriminate between networks or issuers. For more
    information on this aspect of Dodd-Frank and its potential
    impact on our business, please see  Risk Factors- Banks,
    card issuers and card network operators generally are the
    subject of increasing global regulatory  

77

Table of Contents   

focus, which may impose costly new compliance burdens on our
    Company and lead to decreased transaction volumes and revenues
    through our network.  

Dodd-Frank mandates the Federal Reserve to establish heightened
    capital, leverage and liquidity standards, risk management
    requirements, concentration limits on credit exposures,
     living wills  and stress tests for, among others,
    bank holding companies that have greater than $50 billion
    in total consolidated assets, such as the Company. In addition,
    most interest rate and currency swaps will be required to be
    exchange-traded which may increase collateral posting
    requirements for the Company.

Pursuant to Dodd-Frank, the responsibility and authority of the
    OTS to supervise federal savings associations, including AEBFSB,
    will be transferred to the OCC on July 21, 2011 (unless
    extended for up to six months). AEBFSB will need to develop a
    relationship with its new regulator, and there could be
    additional compliance costs associated with aligning
    AEBFSB s current compliance structure with the OCC s
    expectations. Additionally, the transfer of responsibility from
    the OTS to the OCC could result in new regulatory standards as
    it is, at this time, unclear whether the OCC will adopt or
    modify OTS regulations, orders or policies, including
    interpretations or applications. Any shifts in current
    regulatory positions could adversely affect our results of
    operation.

Many provisions of Dodd-Frank, including numerous provisions not
    described above, require the adoption of rules to implement. In
    addition, Dodd-Frank mandates multiple studies, which could
    result in additional legislative or regulatory action.
    Therefore, the ultimate consequences of Dodd-Frank and its
    implementing regulations on the Company s business, results
    of operations and financial condition remain uncertain.

The
    Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of
    2009 will significantly impact our business practices and could
    have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations.   

The CARD Act required the Company to make fundamental changes to
    many of our business practices, including marketing,
    underwriting, pricing and billing. Among other things, the CARD
    Act prohibits an issuer from increasing the APR on outstanding
    balances (with limited exceptions), requires additional account
    disclosures, provides consumers with the right to opt out of
    significant changes to account terms, and restricts penalty fees
    and charges that may be imposed by an issuer. Most of the
    requirements of the CARD Act became effective in February 2010.
    Additional amendments to Regulation Z revising the open-end
    credit disclosure requirements became effective on July 1,
    2010.

Since August 22, 2010, the CARD Act, among other things,
    requires that penalty fees be reasonable and proportional. Also,
    since August 22, 2010, the CARD Act requires issuers to
    periodically reevaluate APR increases to determine if a decrease
    is appropriate. The first of these reevaluations must be
    completed in February 2011. The obligation to periodically
    reevaluate APR increases is ongoing, and it is uncertain how
    these provisions will be interpreted or amended by the new
    Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Therefore, while the
    ultimate impact of this requirement is uncertain at this time,
    it could have a significant impact on our results of operations.

While the Company has made certain changes to its product terms
    and practices that are designed to mitigate the impact of the
    changes required by the CARD Act, there is no assurance that it
    will be successful. The long-term impact of the CARD Act on the
    Company s business practices and revenues will depend upon
    a number of factors, including its ability to successfully
    implement its business strategies, consumer behavior and the
    actions of the Company s competitors, which are difficult
    to predict at this time. In the event the actions undertaken by
    the Company to date to offset the impact of the new legislation
    and regulations are not ultimately effective, they could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company s results of
    operations, including its revenue and net income.

78

Table of Contents   

Our
    business is subject to significant and extensive government
    regulation and supervision which could adversely affect our
    results of operations and financial condition.   

On November 14, 2008, American Express Company and TRS each
    became bank holding companies under the BHC Act and elected to
    be treated as financial holding companies under the BHC Act. As
    a result of becoming a bank holding company, we are subject to
    regulation by the Federal Reserve, including, without
    limitation, consolidated capital regulation at the holding
    company level, maintenance of certain capital and management
    standards in connection with our two U.S. depository
    institutions and restrictions on our non-banking activities
    under the Federal Reserve s regulations.

If we fail to satisfy regulatory requirements applicable to bank
    holding companies, our financial condition and results of
    operations could be adversely affected.

We are also subject to extensive government regulation and
    supervision in jurisdictions around the world, both as a
    participant in the financial services industry and otherwise.
    Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect
    depositors  funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the
    banking system as a whole, and not for the protection of our
    shareholders or creditors. Among other things, as a result of
    regulators enforcing existing laws and regulations, we could be
    fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business
    activities, subject to limitations or conditions on our business
    activities or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or
    other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our
    business or with respect to our employees. There is also the
    risk that new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of
    existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses may be
    imposed which could impact the profitability of the
    Company s business activities, limit our ability to pursue
    business opportunities, require the Company to change certain of
    its business practices or alter its relationships with
    customers, affect retention of key Company personnel, or expose
    the Company to additional costs (including increased compliance
    costs). Such changes also may require us to invest significant
    management attention and resources to make any necessary changes
    and could adversely affect our results of operations and
    financial condition.

Please see  Supervision and Regulation  beginning on
    page 38 for more information about the regulation to which
    we are subject.

We are
    subject to capital adequacy guidelines and, if we fail to meet
    these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely
    affected.   

Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other
    regulatory requirements, the Company, TRS and our subsidiary
    banks, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, must meet guidelines for
    capital adequacy and leverage ratios that include quantitative
    measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet
    items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about
    components, risk weightings and other factors. As discussed
    above under  Supervision and Regulation   Capital
    Adequacy , the capital requirements applicable to the
    Company and TRS as bank holding companies and our subsidiary
    depository institutions are in the process of being
    substantially revised, including in connection with our
    transition to Basel II and as a result of Basel III
    and the requirements of Dodd-Frank. If the Company, TRS or our
    subsidiary depository institutions fail to meet current or
    future minimum capital, leverage or other financial
    requirements, their respective financial conditions would be
    materially adversely affected. In light of recent market events,
    Dodd-Frank and Basel III, the Company, TRS and our subsidiary
    depository institutions will be required to satisfy additional,
    more stringent capital adequacy standards than in the past. We
    cannot fully predict the final form of, or the effects of, these
    regulations. Failure by any of the Company, TRS or a subsidiary
    depository institution to maintain its respective status as
     well capitalized  and  well managed,  if
    unremedied over a period of time, would cause us to lose our
    status as a financial holding company and could compromise our
    competitive position. For more information on capital adequacy
    requirements, please see  Supervision and
    Regulation   Capital Adequacy  above.

79

Table of Contents   

We are
    subject to restrictions that limit our ability to pay dividends
    and repurchase our capital stock.   

We are limited in our ability to pay dividends by our regulators
    who could prohibit a dividend that would be considered an unsafe
    or unsound banking practice. For example, it is the policy of
    the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally
    pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if
    prospective earnings retention is consistent with the
    organization s expected future needs, asset quality, and
    financial condition. Recently issued temporary guidance from the
    Federal Reserve states that our dividend policies will be
    assessed against, among other things, our ability to achieve
    Basel III capital ratio requirements. A company that has
    not achieved Basel III capital requirements on a fully
    phased-in basis may have difficulty increasing dividends.

While the regulations ultimately applicable to the Company will
    be determined by the Federal Reserve, the Company estimates
    that, had regulations implementing Basel III been in place
    during the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company s capital
    ratios under Basel III would have exceeded the minimum
    requirements. This estimate could change in the future. While we
    expect to meet the Basel III capital requirements,
    inclusive of the capital conservation buffer, as phased in by
    the Federal Reserve, the regulations ultimately applicable to us
    may be substantially different from the Basel III final
    framework as published in December 2010. Moreover, the Federal
    Reserve will closely scrutinize any dividend payout ratios
    exceeding 30% of after-tax net income.

During the fourth quarter of 2010, we repurchased
    14 million shares of our common stock through our share
    repurchase program. On January 7, 2011, we submitted our
    Comprehensive Capital Plan ( CCP ) to the Federal
    Reserve requesting approval to proceed with additional share
    repurchases in 2011. The CCP includes an analysis of performance
    and capital availability under certain adverse economic
    assumptions. We expect a response from the Federal Reserve by
    the end of the first quarter. No additional shares are expected
    to be repurchased prior to its response. We cannot predict
    whether the Federal Reserve will approve additional share
    purchases.

For more information on bank holding company dividend
    restrictions, please see  Supervision and
    Regulation   General   Dividends  on
    page 46, as well as  Financial Review  
    Share Repurchases and Dividends  on page 41 and
    Note 23 on page 111 of our 2010 Annual Report to
    Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by
    reference.

Banks,
    card issuers and card network operators generally are the
    subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may impose
    costly new compliance burdens on our Company and lead to
    decreased transaction volumes and revenues through our
    network.   

We are subject to regulations that affect banks and the payments
    industry in the United States and many other countries in which
    our charge and credit Cards are used and where we conduct
    banking and Card activities. In particular, we are subject to
    numerous regulations applicable to financial institutions in the
    United States and abroad. We are also subject to regulations as
    a provider of services to financial institutions. Regulation of
    the payments industry has increased significantly in recent
    years. For example, we are subject to certain provisions of the
    Bank Secrecy Act as amended by the Patriot Act, with regard to
    maintaining effective anti-money laundering programs. Increased
    regulatory focus in this area could result in additional
    obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of
    products and services we may offer to consumers, the countries
    in which our charge and credit Cards may be used, and the types
    of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our charge
    and credit Cards. In addition, the member states of the European
    Economic Area have now implemented a relatively new European
    Union legislative directive, called the Payment Services
    Directive, for electronic payment services, including cards,
    that puts in place a common legal framework for licensing and
    supervision of payment services providers, including card
    issuers and merchant acquirers, and for their conduct of
    business.

Various regulatory agencies and legislatures are also
    considering regulations and legislation covering identity theft,
    account management guidelines, disclosure rules, security, and
    marketing that would impact us directly, in part due to
    increased scrutiny of our underwriting standards. These new
    requirements may restrict our ability to issue charge and credit
    cards or partner with other financial institutions, which could
    decrease

80

Table of Contents   

our transaction volumes. In some circumstances, new regulations
    and legislation could have the effect of limiting our ability to
    offer new types of charge or credit cards or restricting our
    ability to offer existing Cards, such as stored value cards,
    which could materially and adversely reduce our revenues and
    revenue growth.

In recent years, regulators in several countries outside the
    United States have focused on the fees involved in the operation
    of card networks, including interchange fees paid to card
    issuers and the fees merchants are charged to accept cards.
    Regulators in the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, Poland,
    Italy, Switzerland, Hungary, the European Union, Australia,
    Brazil, Mexico and Venezuela, among others, have conducted
    investigations that are either ongoing, concluded or on appeal.

The interchange fee, which is the collectively set fee paid by
    the bankcard merchant acquirer to the card issuing bank in
     four party  payment networks, like Visa and
    MasterCard, is generally the largest component of the merchant
    service charge charged to merchants for bankcard debit and
    credit card acceptance in these systems. By contrast, the
    American Express network does not have interchange fees.
    Although the regulators  focus has primarily been on Visa
    and MasterCard as the dominant card networks and on their
    operations on a multilateral basis, antitrust actions and
    government regulation relating to merchant pricing could
    ultimately affect all networks. Lower interchange
     and/or 
    merchant discount revenue may lead card issuers to look for
    other sources of revenue such as higher annual card fees or
    interest charges, as well as to reduce costs by scaling back or
    eliminating rewards programs.

In the United States, Congress continued to focus on the
    interchange issue during 2010. Congress passed Dodd-Frank, which
    the President signed into law in July 2010. Dodd-Frank gives the
    Federal Reserve the authority to establish rules regarding
    interchange fees charged by payment card issuers for
    transactions in which a person uses a debit or general-use
    prepaid card, and to enforce a new statutory requirement that
    such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a
    transaction to the issuer, with specific allowances for the
    costs of fraud prevention, as well as to prohibit exclusive
    network routing restrictions for electronic debit transactions.
    American Express does not offer a debit card linked to a deposit
    account, but does issue various types of prepaid cards.
    Reloadable general-use prepaid cards, but not those marketed or
    labeled as gift cards or gift certificates, are exempt from the
    interchange fee limitations. In contrast to the interchange fee
    limitations, all prepaid cards would be subject to the exclusive
    network routing restrictions for electronic debit transactions.
    In December 2010, the Federal Reserve issued a Notice of
    Proposed Rulemaking requesting comments to implement the
    interchange fee limitations and exclusive network routing
    restrictions. The Federal Reserve must issue final rules on the
    exclusive network routing restrictions by July 21, 2011.
    The statute does not specify when those rules must take effect.
    It is difficult to assess at this time the extent to which the
    final regulations, once issued, could adversely impact our
    revenues and profitability.

Additionally, Dodd-Frank prohibits payment card networks from
    restricting merchants from offering discounts or incentives to
    encourage customers to pay with particular forms of payment such
    as cash, check, credit or debit card, provided that such offers
    do not discriminate on the basis of the network or issuer.
    Further, to the extent required by federal law or applicable
    state law, the discount or incentive must be offered to all
    prospective buyers and must be clearly and conspicuously
    disclosed. Dodd-Frank also permits U.S. merchants to
    establish minimum purchase amounts of no more than $10 for
    credit card purchases, provided that the merchants do not
    discriminate between networks or issuers. Federal government
    agencies and institutions of higher learning are also permitted
    to establish maximum amounts for credit card purchases provided
    they do not discriminate between networks or issuers. As a
    result of these new laws, customers may be incentivized by
    merchants to move away from the use of charge and credit card
    products to other forms of payment, such as debit, which could
    adversely affect our revenues and profitability.

During the last four years, a number of bills were proposed in
    individual state legislatures seeking to impose caps on credit
    card interchange fees or to prohibit credit card companies from
    charging a merchant discount on the sales tax portion of credit
    card purchases. Other proposals were aimed at increasing the
    transparency of card network rules for merchants. In addition, a
    number of bills were proposed to establish merchant liability
    for the costs of a data security breach of a merchant s
    system or require merchants to adopt technical safeguards to
    protect sensitive cardholder payment information. In 2010,
    Vermont enacted legislation that permits merchants to set a
    minimum dollar value of no more than $10 for acceptance of any
    form of

81

Table of Contents   

payment; permits merchants to provide discounts or other
    benefits based on the form of payment (i.e., card, cash, check,
    debit card, stored-value card, charge card or credit card); and
    permits merchants to accept the cards of a payment system at one
    or more of its locations but not at others. This legislation may
    serve as a model for other states. In the event that additional
    legislative or regulatory activity to limit interchange or
    merchant fees continues or increases, or state data security
    legislation is adopted, our revenues and profitability could be
    adversely affected.

Increased regulatory focus on our Company, such as in connection
    with the matters discussed above, may increase our compliance
    costs or result in a reduction of transactions processed on our
    networks or merchant discount revenues from such transactions,
    which could materially and adversely impact our results of
    operations.

If we
    are not able to protect our intellectual property, and invest
    successfully in, and compete at the leading edge of,
    technological developments across all our businesses, our
    revenue and profitability could be negatively
    affected.   

Our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological
    changes. In order to compete in our industry, we need to
    continue to invest in business process and technology advances
    across all areas of our business, including in transaction
    processing, data management, customer interactions and
    communications, travel reservations systems, prepaid products,
    alternative payment mechanisms and risk management and
    compliance systems. We rely in part on third parties, including
    some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the
    development of and access to new technologies. We expect that
    new technologies applicable to the payments industry will
    continue to emerge, and these new technologies may be superior
    to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our
    Cards, networks and other services. Because of evolving payments
    technologies and the competitive landscape, we may not, among
    other things, be successful in increasing or maintaining our
    share of online spending and enhancing our Cardmembers 
    digital experience, which could have an adverse effect on our
    revenues and profitability. Our ability to develop, acquire, or
    access competitive technologies or business processes on
    acceptable terms may be limited by patent rights that third
    parties, including competitors and potential competitors, may
    assert. In addition, our ability to adopt new technologies that
    we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide
    standards or by resistance from Cardmembers or merchants to such
    changes.

We rely on a variety of measures to protect our intellectual
    property and proprietary information, including copyrights,
    trademarks, patents and controls on access and distribution.
    These measures may not prevent misappropriation or infringement
    of our intellectual property or proprietary information and a
    resulting loss of competitive advantage. In addition,
    competitors or other third parties may allege that our systems,
    processes or technologies infringe their intellectual property
    rights. Given the complex, rapidly changing and competitive
    technological and business environment in which we operate and
    the potential risks and uncertainties of intellectual property
    related litigation, we cannot assure you that a future assertion
    of an infringement claim against us will not cause us to lose
    significant revenues, incur significant license, royalty or
    technology development expenses, or pay significant monetary
    damages.

Regulation
    in the areas of privacy and data security could increase our
    costs and decrease the number of charge and credit Cards
    issued.   

We are subject to various regulations related to privacy and
    data security/breach, and we could be negatively impacted by
    these regulations. For example, in the United States, we are
    subject to the safeguards guidelines under the
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The safeguards guidelines require that
    each financial institution develop, implement and maintain a
    written, comprehensive information security program containing
    safeguards that are appropriate to the financial
    institution s size and complexity, the nature and scope of
    the financial institution s activities and the sensitivity
    of any customer information at issue. Broad-ranging data
    security laws that affect our business have also been adopted by
    various states, such as Massachusetts and Nevada.

Compliance with these laws regarding the protection of customer
    and employee data could result in higher compliance and
    technology costs for the Company, as well as potentially
    significant fines and penalties

82

Table of Contents   

for non-compliance. Many foreign jurisdictions in which we
    operate are also expanding the scope of their data security
    requirements and standards, as well as increasing enforcement
    activity in this area. In 1995, the European Parliament and
    Council passed European Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of
    individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and
    on the free movement of such data (commonly referred to as the
    Data Protection Directive), which obligates the controller of an
    individual s personal data to take the necessary technical
    and organizational measures to protect personal data. The Data
    Protection Directive has been implemented through local laws
    regulating data protection in European Union Member States. As
    these laws are interpreted throughout the European Union where
    we have a significant commercial presence, compliance costs are
    increasing, particularly in the context of ensuring that
    adequate data security protections and data transfer mechanisms
    are in place. In July 2010, we submitted for review by relevant
    European data protection authorities our draft binding corporate
    rules for processing of data within the American Express group
    which, once approved, will enable a more efficient basis on
    which to transfer data within our group.

In addition to the foregoing enhanced data security
    requirements, various federal banking regulatory agencies, and
    as many as 46 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico
    and the Virgin Islands, have enacted data breach regulations and
    laws requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the
    event of a security breach. Data breach laws are also becoming
    more prevalent in other parts of the world where we operate,
    including Japan, Mexico and Germany. In many countries that have
    yet to impose automatic data breach notification requirements,
    regulators have increasingly used the threat of significant
    sanctions and penalties by data protection authorities to
    encourage voluntary notification and discourage data breaches.
    Many of these regulations also apply broadly to
    retailers/merchants that accept our Cards; thus, to the extent
    they experience data security breaches, this presents additional
    risks for American Express and our Cardmembers.

In addition, federal legislators and regulators are increasingly
    pursuing new guidelines, laws and regulations that, if adopted,
    could further restrict how the Company collects, uses, shares
    and secures customer information, which could impact some of the
    Company s current or planned business initiatives. For
    example, a recent FTC report, which applies to a company s
    collection and use of customer information both online and
    offline, would impose greater transparency, use, disclosure and
    consumer choice obligations on the Company, and may ultimately
    result in the creation of an online mechanism through which
    consumers could opt out of all online tracking for online
    behavioral advertising purposes. A companion report by the
    United States Department of Commerce ( DOC ) would
    require companies to be more transparent in their online privacy
    practices, and recommends the creation of a national data
    security/data breach standard. Both the FTC and the DOC are
    expected to release final reports by the end of 2011.
    Additionally, two draft privacy bills were introduced in the
    111th Congress in the summer of 2010, and a number of
    federal legislators have either expressed their support for
    these draft bills or have indicated their intent to introduce
    new bills in the 112th Congress. If adopted, any such
    privacy bill could have a significant impact on the
    Company s current and planned data privacy and security
    practices, could increase our costs of compliance and business
    operations and could reduce revenues from certain business
    initiatives.

We continue to seek ways to minimize these risks and costs
    internally by improving our own data privacy and security
    policies and practices, and externally through regular
    improvements to the PCI Data Security Standard and by placing
    strong contractual obligations on retailers/merchants that
    accept our Cards, as well as on our service providers and
    business partners, relating to data security and data breach. We
    also have undertaken measures to assess the level of access to
    customer data by employees and our partners and service
    providers, and to ensure that such access is limited to the
    least privileged level necessary to perform their job or
    function for the Company. Still, increased regulation and
    enforcement activity throughout the world in the areas of data
    privacy and data security/breach may materially increase our
    costs and may decrease the number of our Cards that we issue, or
    restrict our ability to fully exploit our closed-loop
    capability, which could materially and adversely affect our
    profitability. Our failure to comply with the privacy and data
    security/breach laws and regulations to which we are subject
    could also result in fines, sanctions and damage to our global
    reputation and our brand.

83

Table of Contents   

Our
    success is dependent, in part, upon our executive officers and
    other key personnel, and the loss of key personnel could
    materially adversely affect our business.   

Our success depends, in part, on our executive officers and
    other key personnel. Our senior management team has significant
    industry experience and would be difficult to replace. Our
    senior management team is relatively small and we believe we are
    in a critical period of competition in the financial services
    and payments industry. The market for qualified individuals is
    highly competitive, and we may not be able to attract and retain
    qualified personnel or candidates to replace or succeed members
    of our senior management team or other key personnel. As further
    described in  Supervision and Regulation  
    Compensation Practices  on pages 52-53, our
    compensation practices are subject to review and oversight by
    the Federal Reserve and the compensation practices of our
    depository institution subsidiaries are subject to review and
    oversight by the FDIC and the OTS (and beginning in July 2011,
    the OCC). As a large financial and banking institution, we may
    be subject to limitations on compensation practices, which may
    or may not affect our competitors, by the Federal Reserve, the
    FDIC or other regulators worldwide. These limitations, including
    limitations on any incentive compensation policies pursuant to
    Dodd-Frank, could further affect our ability to attract and
    retain our executive officers and other key personnel. The loss
    of key personnel could materially adversely affect our business.

Litigation
    and regulatory actions could subject us to significant fines,
    penalties, judgments and/or requirements resulting in increased
    expenses.   

Businesses in the credit card industry have historically been
    subject to significant legal actions, including class action
    lawsuits and patent claims. Many of these actions have included
    claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages. In
    addition, we may be involved in various actions or proceedings
    brought by governmental regulatory agencies in the event of
    noncompliance with laws or regulations, which could subject us
    to significant fines, penalties or other requirements resulting
    in increased expenses and damage to our global reputation and
    our brand.

Business
    Risks  

Our
    operating results may suffer because of substantial and
    increasingly intense competition worldwide in the payments
    industry.   

The payments industry is highly competitive and includes, in
    addition to charge, credit and debit card networks and issuers,
    cash, credit and ACH, as well as evolving alternative payment
    mechanisms, systems and products, such as aggregators (e.g.,
    PayPal), wireless payment technologies (including using mobile
    telephone networks to carry out transactions), prepaid systems
    and systems linked to payment cards, and bank transfer models.
    We are the third largest general-purpose charge and credit card
    network based on charge volume, behind Visa and MasterCard,
    which we believe are larger than we are in most countries. As a
    result, other card issuers may be able to benefit from the
    strong position and marketing and pricing power of Visa and
    MasterCard.

Because of continuing consolidations among banking and financial
    services companies and credit card portfolio acquisitions by
    major card issuers, there are now a smaller number of
    significant issuers. Continuing consolidation in the banking
    industry may result in a financial institution with a strong
    relationship with us being acquired by an institution that has a
    strong relationship with a competitor, resulting in a potential
    loss of business for us. The largest competing issuers have
    continued to grow, in several cases by acquiring card
    portfolios, and also by cross-selling through their retail
    branch networks, and competition among all issuers remains
    intense. We are also subject to increasing pricing pressure from
    our competitors.

In addition, some of our competitors have developed, or may
    develop, substantially greater financial and other resources
    than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services
    than we offer or may use more effective advertising and
    marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or
    merchant acceptance than we have. We may not continue to be able
    to compete effectively against these threats. Our competitors
    may also be more efficient in introducing innovative products,
    programs and services than we are. Spending on our Cards could
    be impacted by consumer usage of debit cards, as we do not
    currently offer a

84

Table of Contents   

debit card linked to a deposit account, but we do issue various
    types of prepaid cards. In fact, the purchase volume and number
    of transactions made with debit cards in the United States has
    grown more rapidly than credit and charge card transactions.

Internationally, competition remains fierce, and as a result, we
    may not be successful in accelerating our growth outside of the
    United States through proprietary consumer, small business and
    corporate products, GNS partners and alternative payment
    vehicles.

New technologies, together with the portability provided by
    smartphones and tablets and evolving consumer behavior with
    social networking, are rapidly changing the way people interact
    with each other and transact business all around the world. In
    this connection, traditional and non-traditional competitors
    such as mobile telecommunications companies are working to
    deliver digital and mobile payment services for both consumers
    and merchants.

In the United States, alternative payment vehicles that seek to
    redirect customers to payment systems based on ACH continue to
    emerge and grow, and existing debit networks also continue to
    expand both on-and off-line and are making efforts to develop
    online PIN functionality, which could further reduce the
    relative use of charge and credit cards online.

To the extent alternative payment mechanisms, systems and
    products continue to successfully expand in the online payments
    space, our discount revenues and our ability to access
    transaction data through our closed-loop network could be
    negatively impacted. The Company has recently created an
    Enterprise Growth Group to focus on this strategic challenge by
    generating alternative sources of revenue on a global basis,
    both organically and through acquisitions, in areas such as
    online and mobile payments and fee-based services. While
    expanding the Enterprise Growth Group is a top priority for the
    Company, many of the growth initiatives will involve new areas
    for the Company and we may not be successful in executing our
    strategy.

Regulators have recently put forward various proposals that may
    impact our businesses, including proposals relating to
    restrictions on the type of activities in which financial
    institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial
    institutions, and proposals to impose taxes or fees on certain
    financial institutions. These or similar proposals, which may
    not apply to all of our competitors, could impact our ability to
    compete effectively.

We
    face increasingly intense competitive pressure that may impact
    the prices we charge merchants who accept our Cards for payment
    for goods and services.   

Unlike our competitors in the payments industry that rely on
    high revolving credit balances to drive profits, our business
    model is focused on Cardmember spending. Discount revenue, which
    represents fees charged to merchants when Cardmembers use their
    Cards to purchase goods and services on our network, is
    primarily driven by billed business volumes and is our largest
    single revenue source. In recent years, we have been under
    market pressure to reduce merchant discount rates and undertake
    other repricing initiatives. In addition, differentiated payment
    models from non-traditional players in the alternative payments
    space and the regulatory and litigation environment could pose
    challenges to our traditional payment model and adversely impact
    our average discount rate. As a priority in 2011, we are seeking
    to drive greater value to our merchants, which if not
    successful, could negatively impact our discount revenue and
    financial results. If we continue to experience a decline in the
    average merchant discount rate or are unable to sustain merchant
    discount rates on our Cards without experiencing overall volume
    growth or an increase in merchant coverage, our revenues and
    profitability could be materially and adversely affected.

We may
    not be successful in our efforts to promote Card usage through
    our marketing, promotion and rewards programs or to effectively
    control the costs of such programs, both of which may impact our
    profitability.   

Our business is characterized by the high level of spending by
    our Cardmembers. Increasing consumer and business spending and
    borrowing on our payment services products, particularly credit
    and charge Cards and Travelers Cheques and other prepaid
    products, and growth in Card lending balances, depend in part on
    our

85

Table of Contents   

ability to develop and issue new or enhanced Card and prepaid
    products and increase revenues from such products. One of the
    ways in which we attract new Cardmembers, reduce Cardmember
    attrition and seek to capture a greater share of customers 
    total spending on Cards issued on our network, both in the
    United States and in our international operations, is through
    our Membership Rewards program, as well as other Cardmember
    benefits. We may not be able to cost effectively manage and
    expand Cardmember benefits, including containing the growth of
    marketing, promotion and rewards expenses and Cardmember
    services expenses. In addition, many credit card issuers have
    instituted rewards and co-brand programs that are similar to
    ours, and issuers may in the future institute programs that are
    more attractive to cardmembers than our programs.

During the last several years, we have received quarterly
    payments from each of Visa and MasterCard under the agreements
    that we entered into with each company to settle claims made
    against them in separate antitrust actions. We recognized
    $280 million ($172 million after-tax) from Visa in
    2010 and 2009, and $600 million ($372 million
    after-tax) from MasterCard in 2010 and 2009. Our ability to
    continue to invest in marketing, promotion and rewards programs,
    as well as our overall profitability, may be negatively impacted
    if we are unable to replace the payments provided to us under
    our settlements with MasterCard and Visa once the aggregate
    settlement amounts have been paid in full through the second and
    fourth quarters of 2011, respectively.

Our
    brand and reputation are key assets of our Company, and our
    business may be affected by how we are perceived in the
    marketplace.   

Our brand and its attributes are key assets of the Company. Our
    ability to attract and retain consumer Cardmembers and corporate
    clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our
    level of service, trustworthiness, business practices and
    financial condition. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding
    these matters could damage our reputation among existing and
    potential Cardmembers and corporate clients, which could make it
    difficult for us to attract new Cardmembers and maintain
    existing ones. Adverse developments with respect to our industry
    may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation, or
    result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or
    litigation against us. Although we monitor developments for
    areas of potential risk to our reputation and brand, negative
    perceptions or publicity could materially and adversely affect
    our revenues and profitability.

We may
    not be successful in realizing the benefits associated with our
    acquisitions and investment activity.   

We have recently acquired a number of businesses, including our
    acquisitions of Serve, Accertify and Loyalty Partner, which is
    pending. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into
    discussions regarding a wide array of potential transactions.
    These transactions could be material to our financial condition
    and results of operations. The process of integrating an
    acquired company, business, or technology has created, and will
    continue to create, unforeseen operating difficulties and
    expenditures. The areas where we face risks include:
    implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and
    policies at the acquired company; diversion of management time
    and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration
    challenges; coordination of product, engineering, and sales and
    marketing functions; transition of operations, users, and
    customers onto our existing platforms; cultural challenges
    associated with integrating employees from the acquired company
    into our organization; retention of employees from the
    businesses we acquire; integration of the acquired
    company s accounting, management information, human
    resource, and other administrative systems; liability for
    activities of the acquired company before the acquisition,
    including patent and trademark infringement claims, violations
    of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known
    and unknown liabilities; litigation or other claims in
    connection with the acquired company, including claims from
    terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other
    third parties; in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to
    integrate operations across different cultures and languages and
    to address the particular economic, currency, political, and
    regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and failure
    to successfully further develop the acquired technology.

86

Table of Contents   

Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered
    in connection with our past or future acquisitions and
    investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated
    benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur
    unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally.

An
    increase in account data breaches and fraudulent activity using
    our Cards could lead to reputational damage to our brand and
    could reduce the use and acceptance of our charge and credit
    Cards.   

We and other third parties store Cardmember account information
    in connection with our charge and credit Cards. Criminals are
    using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture various
    types of information relating to Cardmembers  accounts,
    including Membership Rewards accounts, to engage in illegal
    activities such as fraud and identity theft. As outsourcing and
    specialization become a more acceptable and common way of doing
    business in the payments industry, there are more third parties
    involved in processing transactions using our Cards. If data
    breaches or fraud levels involving our Cards were to rise, it
    could lead to regulatory intervention (such as mandatory card
    reissuance), increased concerns of customers relating to the
    privacy of their data and reputational and financial damage to
    our brand, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our
    Cards, and have a material adverse impact on our business.

We
    have agreements with business partners in a variety of
    industries, including the airline industry, that represent a
    significant portion of our business. We are exposed to risks
    associated with these industries, including bankruptcies,
    restructurings, consolidations and alliances of our partners,
    and the possible obligation to make payments to our
    partners.   

In the ordinary course of our business we enter into different
    types of contractual arrangements with business partners in a
    variety of industries. For example, we have partnered with
    Costco and Delta Air Lines to offer co-branded cards for
    consumers and small businesses, and through our Membership
    Rewards program we have partnered with businesses in many
    industries, including the airline industry, to offer benefits to
    Cardmember participants. Under some types of these contractual
    arrangements, upon the occurrence of certain triggering events,
    we may be obligated to make payments to certain co-brand
    partners, merchants, vendors and customers. If we are not able
    to effectively manage the triggering events, we could
    unexpectedly have to make payments to these partners, which
    could have a negative effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations. Similarly, we have credit risk to certain
    co-brand partners relating to our prepayments for loyalty
    program points that will not be fully redeemed for multi-year
    periods. We are also exposed to risk from bankruptcies,
    restructurings, consolidations and other similar events that may
    occur in any industry representing a significant portion of our
    billed business, which could negatively impact particular card
    products and services (and billed business generally) and our
    financial condition and results of operations. For example, we
    could be materially impacted if we were obligated to or elected
    to reimburse Cardmembers for products and services purchased
    from merchants that are bankrupt or have ceased operations.

The airline industry represents a significant portion of our
    billed business and in recent years has undergone bankruptcies,
    restructurings, consolidations and other similar events. During
    2010, there continued to be significant consolidation in the
    airline industry, particularly in the United States (e.g.,
    United Airlines/Continental Airlines and the pending merger of
    Southwest Airlines and AirTran), through mergers
     and/or 
    grants of antitrust immunity to airline alliances and joint
    ventures, and this trend could continue. In particular, the
    United States Department of Transportation has granted antitrust
    immunity to members of the Skyteam, Star and Oneworld Alliances,
    enabling the covered airlines to closely coordinate their
    cross-regional operations and to launch highly integrated joint
    ventures in transatlantic and other markets, including jointly
    pricing and managing capacity on covered routes, sharing
    revenues and costs, and coordinating sales and corporate
    contracts, all outside of the scope of the U.S. antitrust
    laws. The European Commission has similarly approved the
    Oneworld Alliance, and its review of the other alliances is
    continuing. Increasing consolidation and expanded antitrust
    immunity could create challenges for our relationships with the
    airlines including by reducing our profitability on our airline
    business.

Airlines are also some of the most important and valuable
    partners in our Membership Rewards program. If a participating
    airline merged with an airline that did not participate in
    Membership Rewards, the combined airline would have to determine
    whether or not to continue participation. Similarly, if one of
    our co-brand

87

Table of Contents   

airline partners merged with an airline that had a competing
    co-brand card, the combined airline would have to determine
    which co-brand cards it would offer. If an airline determined to
    withdraw from Membership Rewards or to cease offering an
    American Express co-brand card, whether as the result of a
    merger or otherwise, such as our recent announcement that
    Continental Airlines will no longer participate in the Airport
    Club Access program for Centurion and Platinum Cardmembers or
    the Membership Rewards points transfer program as of
    October 1, 2011, our business could be adversely affected.
    For additional information relating to the general risks related
    to the airline industry, see  Financial Review  
    Exposure to Airline Industry  on page 60 of our 2010
    Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by
    reference.

Our
    reengineering and other cost control initiatives may not prove
    successful, and we may not realize all or a significant portion
    of the benefits we intended.   

We have regularly undertaken, and are currently undertaking, a
    variety of efforts to reengineer our business operations in
    order to achieve cost savings and other benefits (including the
    reinvestment of such savings in key areas such as marketing,
    promotion, rewards and infrastructure), enhance
    revenue-generating opportunities and improve our operating
    expense to revenue ratio both in the short-term and over time.
    These efforts include cost management, structural and strategic
    measures such as vendor, process, facilities and operations
    consolidation, outsourcing functions (including, among others,
    technologies operations), relocating certain functions to lower
    cost overseas locations, moving internal and external functions
    to the Internet to save costs and planned staff reductions
    relating to certain of these reengineering actions. If we do not
    successfully achieve these efforts in a timely manner or if we
    are not able to capitalize on these efforts, including the
    ability of the Global Services Group to generate an annualized
    level of gross expense savings of approximately
    $500 million by 2012, or if the actions taken ultimately
    come at the expense of operational efficiency, we may not
    realize all or a significant portion of the benefits we
    intended. Failure to achieve these benefits could have a
    negative effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.

Our
    risk management policies and procedures may not be
    effective.   

We must effectively manage credit risk related to consumer debt,
    business loans, settlement risk with regard to GNS partners,
    merchant bankruptcies, the rate of bankruptcies, and other
    credit trends that can affect spending on Card products, debt
    payments by individual and corporate customers and businesses
    that accept our Card products.

Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty
    default. We are exposed to both consumer credit risk,
    principally from Cardmember receivables and our other consumer
    lending activities, and institutional credit risk from
    merchants, GNS partners and GCC clients. Third parties may
    default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of
    liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Country,
    regional and political risks are components of credit risk.
    Rising delinquencies and rising rates of bankruptcy are often
    precursors of future write-offs and may require us to increase
    our reserve for loan losses. Higher write-off rates and an
    increase in our reserve for loan losses adversely affect our
    profitability and the performance of our securitizations, and
    may increase our cost of funds.

Although we make estimates to provide for credit losses in our
    outstanding portfolio of loans and receivables, these estimates
    may not be accurate. In addition, the information we use in
    managing our credit risk may be inaccurate or incomplete.
    Although we regularly review our credit exposure to specific
    clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries
    and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default
    risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult
    to foresee or detect, such as fraud. We may also fail to receive
    full information with respect to the credit risks of our
    customers.

We must also effectively manage market risk to which we are
    exposed. Market risk represents the loss in value of portfolios
    and financial instruments due to adverse changes in market
    variables. We are exposed to market risk from interest rates in
    our Card business and in our investment portfolios. Changes in
    the interest rates at which we borrow and lend money affect the
    value of our assets and liabilities. If the rate of interest we
    pay on our borrowings increases more than the rate of interest
    we earn on our loans, our net interest yield, and consequently
    our net income, could fall.

88

Table of Contents   

We must also accurately estimate the fair value of the assets in
    our investment portfolio and, in particular, those investments
    that are not readily marketable.

Additionally, we must effectively manage liquidity risk to which
    we are exposed. Liquidity risk is defined as the inability to
    access cash and equivalents needed to meet business requirements
    and satisfy our obligations. If we are unsuccessful in managing
    our liquidity risk, we may maintain too much liquidity, which
    can be costly and limit financial flexibility, or we may be too
    illiquid, which could result in financial distress during a
    liquidity event. For additional information regarding our
    management of liquidity risk, see  Adverse capital and
    credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to
    meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of
    capital  above.

Finally, we must also manage the operational risks to which we
    are exposed. We consider operational risk to be the risk of not
    achieving business objectives due to inadequate or failed
    processes or information systems, human error or the external
    environment (i.e., natural disasters) including losses due to
    failures to comply with laws and regulations. Operational risks
    include the risk that we may not comply with specific regulatory
    or legal requirements, exposing us to fines
     and/or 
    penalties and possibly brand damage; employee error or
    intentional misconduct that results in a material financial
    misstatement; or a failure to monitor an outsource
    partner s compliance with a service level agreement,
    resulting in economic harm to us.

Although we have devoted significant resources to develop our
    risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue
    to do so in the future, our hedging strategies and other risk
    management techniques may not be fully effective. See
     Financial Review   Risk Management  on
    pages 48-50 of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders for a
    discussion of the policies and procedures we use to identify,
    monitor and manage the risks we assume in conducting our
    businesses. Management of credit, market and operational risk
    requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record
    properly and verify a large number of transactions and events,
    and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective.

An
    inability to accept or maintain deposits due to market demand or
    regulatory constraints could materially adversely affect our
    liquidity position and our ability to fund our
    business.   

As a source of funding, our banking subsidiaries offer deposits
    to individuals through brokerage networks as well as directly to
    consumers.

As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    $29.7 billion in total customer deposits. The majority of
    the Company s outstanding U.S. retail deposits have
    been raised through third-party channels and, as such, are
    considered brokered deposits for bank regulatory purposes. As
    part of our funding strategy, a majority of the deposits raised
    during 2010 were sourced directly by the Company with consumers
    through Personal Savings from American Express. Many other
    financial services firms are increasing their use of deposit
    funding, and as such we may experience increased competition in
    the deposit markets, particularly as to brokerage networks. We
    cannot predict how this increased competition will affect
    deposit renewal rates, costs or availability. If we are required
    to offer higher interest rates to attract or maintain deposits,
    our funding costs will be adversely impacted.

Our ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive
    interest rates on deposits also is dependent on capital levels
    of our bank subsidiaries. The FDIA generally prohibits a bank,
    including our banking subsidiaries, from accepting brokered
    deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits
    significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal
    market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are
    solicited), unless (1) it is well capitalized or
    (2) it is adequately capitalized and receives a waiver from
    the FDIC. A bank that is less than well capitalized generally
    may not pay an interest rate on any deposit, including
     direct-to-consumer 
    deposits, in excess of 75 basis points over the national
    rate published by the FDIC unless the FDIC determines that the
    bank is operating in a high-rate area. An adequately capitalized
    insured depository institution may not accept, renew or roll
    over any brokered deposit unless it has applied for and been
    granted a waiver of this prohibition by the FDIC.
    Undercapitalized depository institutions may not solicit
    deposits by offering interest rates that are significantly
    higher than the prevailing rates of interest on insured deposits
    in such institution s normal market areas or in the market
    area in which such deposits would otherwise be accepted. There
    are no such restrictions on a bank that is well capitalized
    (provided such bank is not subject to a capital maintenance
    provision within a written agreement, consent order, order to
    cease and

89

Table of Contents   

desist, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive
    issued by its federal regulator). If a depository
    institution s federal regulator determines that it is in an
    unsafe or unsound condition or is engaging in unsafe or unsound
    banking practices, the regulator may reclassify a well
    capitalized institution as adequately capitalized, require an
    adequately capitalized institution to comply with certain
    restrictions as if it were undercapitalized, and require an
    undercapitalized institution take certain actions applicable to
    significantly undercapitalized institutions.

While Centurion Bank and AEBFSB were considered  well
    capitalized  for these purposes as of December 31,
    2009 and December 31, 2010, there can be no assurance that
    they will continue to meet this definition. Basel III, when
    implemented by the U.S. banking agencies and fully
    phased-in, will require bank holding companies and their bank
    subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a
    greater emphasis on common equity. Additionally, our regulators
    can adjust the requirements to be well capitalized at any time
    and have authority to place limitations on our deposit
    businesses, including the interest rate we pay on deposits. An
    inability to attract or maintain deposits in the future could
    materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our
    ability to fund our business.

If our global network systems are disrupted or we are
    unable to process transactions efficiently or at all, our
    revenue and profitability would be materially reduced.  

Our transaction authorization, clearing and settlement systems
    may experience service interruptions as a result of fire,
    natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or
    local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism or accident. A
    natural disaster or other problem at our facilities could
    interrupt our services. Additionally, we rely on third-party
    service providers for the timely transmission of information
    across our global network. If a service provider fails to
    provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a
    result of natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or
    any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services,
    adversely affect the perception of our brands  reliability
    and materially reduce our revenue and profitability.

We
    rely on third-party providers of various computer systems and
    other services integral to the operations of our businesses.
    These third parties may act in ways that could harm our
    business.   

We operate a service network around the world.  In
    order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource
    to third-party vendors many of the computer systems and other
    services that are integral to the operations of our global
    businesses. A significant amount of this outsourcing occurs in
    developing countries. We are subject to the risk that certain
    decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service
    providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our
    activities. In addition, the management of multiple third-party
    vendors increases our operational complexity and decreases our
    control. It is also possible that the cost efficiencies of
    certain outsourcings will decrease as the demand for these
    services increases around the world.

Our
    business is subject to the effects of weather and natural
    disasters.   

As previously disclosed, natural disasters, severe weather
    conditions and other catastrophic events can have a negative
    effect on the Company s business. Because the Company
    derives a portion of its revenues from travel-related spending,
    its business is sensitive to disruptions in air travel and other
    forms of travel caused by such events. Such disruptions can
    result in the payment of claims under travel interruption
    insurance policies that the Company offers and, if such
    disruptions to travel are prolonged, they can materially
    adversely affect overall travel-related spending. If the
    conditions described above (or similar ones) result in
    widespread or lengthy disruptions to travel, they could have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations.

Special
    Note About Forward-Looking Statements  

We have made various statements in this Report that may
    constitute  forward-looking statements  within the
    meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
    Forward-looking statements may also be made in our other reports
    filed with or furnished to the SEC, in our press releases and in
    other documents. In addition, from time to time, we, through our
    management, may make oral forward-looking statements.
    Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and
    uncertainties, including those identified above, which could
    cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.
    The words  believe,   expect, 

90

Table of Contents   

anticipate,   optimistic, 
     intend,   plan,   aim, 
     will,   may,   should, 
     could,   would,   likely  and
    similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking
    statements. We caution you that the risk factors described above
    are not exclusive. There may also be other risks that we are
    unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to
    differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
    Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
    forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on
    which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update
    publicly or revise any forward-looking statements.

ITEM 1B.    

UNRESOLVED
    STAFF COMMENTS  

Not applicable.

ITEM 2.    

PROPERTIES  

Our principal executive offices are in a 51-story,
    2.2 million square foot building located in lower
    Manhattan. This building, which is on land leased from the
    Battery Park City Authority for a term expiring in 2069, is one
    of four office buildings in a complex known as the World
    Financial Center. We have a 49% ownership interest in the
    building and Brookfield Financial Properties owns the remaining
    51% interest in the building. We also lease space in the
    building from Brookfield.

Other owned or leased principal locations currently include: the
    American Express Service Centers in Fort Lauderdale,
    Florida; Phoenix, Arizona; Greensboro, North Carolina; and Salt
    Lake City, Utah; the American Express Data Centers in Phoenix,
    Arizona and in Minneapolis, Minnesota; a multi-building campus
    housing the American Express Finance Center in Phoenix, Arizona;
    the headquarters for American Express Services Europe Limited in
    London, England; the Amex Canada Inc. headquarters in Markham,
    Ontario, Canada; and service centers located in Mexico City,
    Mexico; Sydney, Australia; Gurgaon, India and Brighton, England.

As part of the Company s decision to consolidate locations
    within the Company s global servicing network, a facility
    in Greensboro, North Carolina, will be closed, with work
    currently handled there being transferred to other locations in
    the U.S. Subject to local consultations, the Company also
    plans to transfer work currently handled at a Madrid, Spain,
    service center to facilities in Brighton, U.K., and Buenos
    Aires, Argentina, and service support for the Japanese card
    business from Sydney, Australia to Japan.

During 2004 and 2005, we engaged in several sale-leaseback
    transactions pursuant to which we sold various owned properties
    to third parties and leased back the properties under long-term
    net leases whereby each American Express entity that leases back
    the property is responsible for all costs and expenses relating
    to the property (including maintenance, repair, utilities,
    operating expenses and insurance costs) in addition to annual
    rent. The sale-leaseback transactions have not materially
    impacted our financial results in any year. Gains resulting from
    completed sale and leaseback transactions are amortized over the
    initial ten-year lease periods. We continue to consider whether
    sale-leaseback transactions are appropriate for other properties
    that we currently own.

Generally, we lease the premises we occupy in other locations.
    We believe that the facilities we own or occupy suit our needs
    and are well maintained.

ITEM 3.    

LEGAL
    PROCEEDINGS  

The Company and its subsidiaries are involved in a number of
    legal and arbitration proceedings, including class actions,
    concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of
    their respective business activities. The Company believes it
    has meritorious defenses to each of these actions and intends to
    defend them vigorously. In the course of its business, the
    Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to governmental
    examinations, information gathering requests, subpoenas,
    inquiries and investigations. The Company believes that it is
    not a party to, nor are any of its properties the subject of,
    any pending legal, arbitration, regulatory or investigative
    proceedings that would have a material adverse effect on the
    Company s consolidated financial condition or liquidity.
    However, it is possible that the outcome of any such proceeding
    could have a material impact on results of operations in any
    particular reporting period as the proceedings are resolved.
    Certain legal proceedings involving the Company are described
    below.

91

Table of Contents   

For those legal proceedings and governmental examinations
    disclosed below as to which a loss is reasonably possible in
    future periods, whether in excess of a related accrued liability
    or where there is no accrued liability, and for which the
    Company is able to estimate a range of possible loss, the
    current estimated range is zero to $500 million in excess
    of the accrued liability (if any) related to those matters. This
    aggregate range represents management s estimate of
    possible loss with respect to these matters and is based on
    currently available information. This estimated range of
    possible loss does not represent the Company s maximum loss
    exposure. The legal proceedings and governmental examinations
    underlying the estimated range will change from time to time and
    actual results may vary significantly from the current estimate.
    For additional information, please see Note 24 to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements, which can be found on
    page 113 of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Corporate
    Matters  

During the last few years as regulatory interest in credit card
    network pricing to merchants and related issues has increased,
    the Company has responded to many inquiries from banking and
    competition authorities throughout the world. In October 2008,
    the Company received a Civil Investigative Demand
    ( CID ) from the Antitrust Division of the DOJ.
    Pursuant to the CID, the DOJ requested the production of
    documents and information regarding the Company s
    contractual provisions relating to merchant surcharging and that
    prohibit merchants from discriminating against American Express
    cards. The Company cooperated with the DOJ s request. The
    Company had also received a similar civil investigative demand
    from the attorney general of the state of Ohio.

On October 4, 2010, the DOJ, along with Attorneys General
    from Connecticut, Iowa, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, Ohio and
    Texas, filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the
    Eastern District of New York against the Company, MasterCard
    International Incorporated and Visa, Inc., alleging a violation
    of Section 1 of the Sherman Antitrust Act. The complaint
    alleges that the defendants  policies prohibiting merchants
    from steering a customer to use another network s card,
    another type of card or another method of payment
    ( anti-steering  and  non-discrimination 
    rules and contractual provisions) violate the antitrust laws.
    The complaint alleges that the defendants participate in two
    distinct markets, a  General Purpose Card network services
    market,  and a  General Purpose Card network services
    market for merchants in travel and entertainment
    ( T E ) businesses.  The complaint contends
    that each of the defendants has market power in the alleged two
    markets. The complaint seeks a judgment permanently enjoining
    the defendants from enforcing their anti-steering and
    non-discrimination rules and contractual provisions. The
    complaint does not seek monetary damages. Concurrent with the
    filing of the complaint, Visa and MasterCard announced they had
    reached an agreement settling the allegations in the complaint
    against them by agreeing to modifications in their rules
    prohibiting merchants that accept their cards from steering
    customers to use another network s card, another type of
    card or another method of payment. American Express response to
    the complaint was filed on December 7, 2010. On
    December 20, 2010, the complaint filed by the DOJ and
    certain state attorneys general was amended to add as plaintiffs
    the Attorneys General from Arizona, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois,
    Montana, Nebraska, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Utah
    and Vermont. American Express  response to the amended
    complaint was filed on January 4, 2011. A hearing has been
    scheduled for March 2, 2011 to discuss scheduling and
    coordination of the DOJ and state attorneys general litigation
    with other cases pending in the Eastern District of New York
    against American Express relating to the non-discrimination
    provisions in its merchant agreements, which cases are described
    below in the section entitled  U.S. Card Services and
    Global Merchant Services Matters. 

On February 20, 2009, a putative class action captioned
     Brozovich v. American Express Co., Kenneth I. Chenault
    and Daniel T. Henry , was filed in the United States District
    Court for the Southern District of New York. The lawsuit alleged
    violations of the federal securities laws in connection with
    certain alleged misstatements regarding the credit quality of
    the Company s credit card customers. The purported class
    covered the period from March 1, 2007 to November 12,
    2008. The action sought unspecified damages and costs and fees.
    The  Brozovich  action was subsequently voluntarily
    dismissed. In March 2009, a putative class action, captioned
     Baydale v. American Express Co., Kenneth I. Chenault and
    Daniel Henry , which made similar allegations to those made
    in the  Brozovich  action, was filed in the United States
    District Court for the Southern District of New York. In October
    2009, the plaintiff in the  Baydale  action filed an
    Amended Consolidated Class Action Complaint in the action.
    The Company filed a motion to dismiss with the Court. On
    July 19, 2010, the Court granted the Company s

92

Table of Contents   

motion to dismiss and dismissed the complaint in its entirety.
    The plaintiff has filed a Notice of Appeal with the United
    States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

In May 2008, a shareholders  derivative suit was filed in
    New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan naming American
    Express Company and certain current and former directors and
    senior executives as defendants. The case, captioned as  City
    of Tallahassee Retirement System v. Akerson et al., 
    alleges breaches of fiduciary duty  arising from knowing
    breaches of fiduciary obligations by certain current and former
    officers and directors of the Company that have led to the
    imposition of deferred criminal charges on a bank that at the
    time such charges were entered was owned by American Express, as
    well as the Company s payment of approximately
    $65 million in penalties to federal and state
    regulators  related to American Express Bank Limited s
    (AEBL) and TRS s anti-money laundering programs. The
    complaint also states that the sale of AEBL took place after
    American Express had  allowed the value of its banking
    business unit to be dramatically impaired on account of the
    systemic violations of law and resulting deferred criminal
    charges.  The complaint seeks monetary damages on behalf of
    the Company. The defendants filed a motion to dismiss the
    complaint and in October 2009, the Court dismissed the complaint
    against all defendants. The plaintiff had filed a Notice of
    Appeal of the dismissal, but has since informed the Company that
    it does not intend to pursue such appeal.

In December 2008, a putative class action captioned
     Obester v. American Express Company, et al.  was
    filed in the United States District Court for the Southern
    District of New York. The complaint alleges that the defendants
    violated certain ERISA obligations by: allowing the investment
    of American Express Retirement Savings Plan ( Plan )
    assets in American Express common stock when American Express
    common stock was not a prudent investment; misrepresenting and
    failing to disclose material facts to Plan participants in
    connection with the administration of the Plan; and breaching
    certain fiduciary obligations. Thereafter, three other putative
    class actions making allegations similar to those made in the
     Obester  matter were filed against the defendants:
     Tang v. American Express Company, et al. , filed on
    December 29, 2008 in the United States District Court for
    the Southern District of New York,  Miner v. American
    Express Company et al. , filed on February 4, 2009 in
    the United States District Court for the Southern District of
    New York, and  DiLorenzo v. American Express Company et
    al. , filed on February 10, 2009 in the United States
    District Court for the Southern District of New York. American
    Express filed a motion to dismiss these actions. In April 2009,
    these actions were consolidated into a Consolidated Amended
    Complaint, captioned  In re American Express ERISA
    Litigation.  Following argument on American Express 
    motion to dismiss this action, the Court permitted plaintiffs to
    file a Second Amended Complaint. In April 2010, American Express
    filed a motion to dismiss the Second Amended Complaint. On
    November 2, 2010, the District Court dismissed the Second
    Amended Complaint in its entirety. On December 2, 2010,
    Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal, appealing the case to the
    United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. That
    appeal is currently pending.

The Company is a defendant in a putative class action captioned
     Kaufman v. American Express Travel Related Services ,
    which was filed on February 14, 2007, and is pending in the
    United States District Court for the Northern District of
    Illinois. The allegations in Kaufman relate primarily to monthly
    service fee charges in respect of the Company s gift card
    products, with the principal claim being that the Company s
    gift cards violate consumer protection statutes because
    consumers allegedly have difficulty spending small residual
    amounts on the gift cards prior to the imposition of monthly
    service fees. In January 2009, the Company signed a Memorandum
    of Understanding to resolve these claims. Since such time, the
    parties have entered into a settlement agreement that was
    submitted to the Court for preliminary approval. The proposed
    settlement class consists of  all purchasers, recipients
    and holders of all gift cards issued by American Express from
    January 1, 2002 through the date of preliminary approval of
    the Settlement, including without limitation, gift cards sold at
    physical retail locations, via the internet, or through mall
    co-branded programs.  Under the terms of the proposed
    settlement, in addition to certain non-monetary relief, the
    Company would pay $3 million into a settlement fund.
    Members of the settlement class would then be entitled to submit
    claims against the settlement fund to receive refunds of certain
    gift card fees, and any monies remaining in the settlement fund
    after payment of all claims would be paid to charity. In
    addition, the Company would make available to the settlement
    class for a period of time the opportunity to buy gift cards
    with no purchase fee. Finally, the Company would be responsible
    for paying class counsel s reasonable fees and expenses and
    certain expenses of administering the class settlement. The
    Company is also a defendant in two other putative class actions
    making allegations similar to those made in  Kaufman :
     Goodman v. American Express  

93

Table of Contents   

Travel
    Related Services
 , pending in the United States
    District Court for the Eastern District of New York, and
     Jarratt v. American Express Company , filed in
    California Superior Court in San Diego and subsequently
    removed to the United States District Court for the Southern
    District of California. If the court ultimately approves the
    proposed settlement in  Kaufman , all related gift card
    claims and actions would also be released. In August 2010, in
    response to objections by plaintiffs in certain of the other
    pending cases, the  Kaufman  court partially granted and
    partially denied approval of the settlement. The Company has
    filed a motion for reconsideration of the portion of the
    court s decision partially denying approval of the
    settlement, and that motion is pending.

Beginning in mid-July 2002, 12 putative class action lawsuits
    were filed in the United States District Court for the Southern
    District of New York. In October 2002, these cases were
    consolidated under the caption  In re American Express Company
    Securities Litigation.  These lawsuits allege violations of
    the federal securities laws and the common law in connection
    with alleged misstatements regarding certain investments in
    high-yield bonds and write-downs in the
     2000-2001 
    timeframe. The purported class covers the period from
    July 26, 1999 to July 17, 2001. The actions seek
    unspecified compensatory damages as well as disgorgement,
    punitive damages, attorneys  fees and costs, and interest.
    On March 31, 2004, the Court granted the Company s
    motion to dismiss the lawsuit. Plaintiffs appealed the dismissal
    to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. In
    August 2006, the Court of Appeals, without expressing any views
    whatsoever on the merits of the cases, vacated the District
    Court s judgment and remanded all claims to the District
    Court for further proceedings. Plaintiffs filed an amended
    complaint on January 5, 2007. The Company subsequently
    filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint, which motion
    was granted in September 2008. Plaintiffs appealed the
    dismissal, and in May 2010, the United States Court of Appeals
    for the Second Circuit affirmed the dismissal. Plaintiffs filed
    for rehearing and rehearing en banc with the Second Circuit in
    June 2010, which motions were denied by the Court.
    Plaintiffs  time to appeal to seek review of the decision
    by the U.S. Supreme Court has expired.

U.S. Card
    Services and Global Merchant Services Matters  

Merchant
    Cases  

Since July 2003 the Company has been named in a number of
    putative class actions in which the plaintiffs allege an
    unlawful antitrust tying arrangement between certain of the
    Company s charge cards and credit cards in violation of
    various state and federal laws. These cases have all been
    consolidated in the United States District Court for the
    Southern District of New York under the caption:  In re
    American Express Merchants  Litigation.  A case making
    similar allegations was also filed in the Southern District of
    New York in July 2004 captioned:  The Marcus
    Corporation v. American Express Company et al.  The
     Marcus  case is not consolidated. The plaintiffs in these
    actions seek injunctive relief and an unspecified amount of
    damages. In April 2004, the Company filed a motion to dismiss
    all the actions filed prior to the date of its motion. In March
    2006, that motion was granted, with the Court finding the claims
    of the plaintiffs to be subject to arbitration. Plaintiffs asked
    the District Court to reconsider its dismissal. That request was
    denied. The plaintiffs appealed the District Court s
    arbitration ruling and in January 2009, the United States Court
    of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the District Court.
    The Company filed with the United States Supreme Court a
    petition of certiorari from the Second Circuit s
    arbitration ruling. On May 3, 2010, the Supreme Court
    granted the Company s petition, vacated the judgment of the
    Second Circuit and remanded the case back to the Second Circuit
    for further consideration. The matter remains pending in the
    Second Circuit. The Company also filed a motion to dismiss the
    action filed by The Marcus Corporation, which was denied in July
    2005. In October 2007, The Marcus Corporation filed a motion
    seeking certification of a class. In March 2009, the Court
    denied the plaintiffs  motion for class certification,
    without prejudicing their right to remake such a motion upon
    resolution of the pending summary judgment motion. In April
    2009, the Court denied plaintiffs  motion for
    reconsideration of the March 2009 order. In September 2008,
    American Express moved for summary judgment seeking dismissal of
    The Marcus Corporation s complaint, and The Marcus
    Corporation cross-moved for partial summary judgment on the
    issue of liability. A decision on the summary judgment motions
    is pending. A case captioned  Hayama Inc. v. American
    Express Company et al. , which makes similar allegations as
    those in the actions described above, was filed and remains in
    the Superior Court of California, Los Angeles County (filed
    December 2003). The Company continues to request that the
    California Superior Court that is hearing the  Hayama 
    action stay such action. To date the  Hayama  action has
    been stayed.

94

Table of Contents   

In February 2009, an amended complaint was filed in  In re
    American Express Merchants  Litigation . The amended
    complaint contains a single count alleging a violation of
    federal antitrust laws through an alleged unlawful tying of:
    (a) corporate, small business
     and/or 
    personal charge card services; and (b) Blue, Costco and
    standard GNS credit card services. In addition, in February
    2009, a new complaint making the same allegations as made in the
    amended complaint filed in  In re American Express
    Merchants  Litigation  was also filed in the United
    States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
    That new case is captioned  Greenporter LLC and Bar Hama LLC,
    on behalf of themselves and all others similarly
    situated v. American Express Company and American Express
    Travel Related Services Company, Inc.   Proceedings
    in the  Greenporter  action and on the amended complaint
    filed in  In re American Express Merchants 
    Litigation  have been held in abeyance pending the
    disposition of the motions for summary judgment in the
     Marcus  case.

Beginning in August 2005, the Company has been named in a number
    of putative class actions alleging that the Company s
     anti-steering  policies and contractual provisions
    violate United States antitrust laws. Those cases were
    consolidated in the United States District Court for the
    Southern District of New York under the caption  In re
    American Express Anti-Steering Rules Antitrust
    Litigation . The plaintiffs  complaint in that
    consolidated action seeks injunctive relief and unspecified
    damages. These plaintiffs agreed that a stay would be imposed
    with regard to their respective actions pending the appeal of
    the Court s arbitration ruling discussed above. Given the
    2009 ruling of the Second Circuit (described above in connection
    with  In re American Express Merchants  Litigation ),
    the stay was lifted, and American Express  response to the
    complaint was filed in April 2009. The Court entered a
    scheduling order on December 28, 2009. In July 2010 the
    Court entered an order partially staying the case pending the
    Second Circuit s arbitration ruling (following the 2010
    remand by the Supreme Court described above in connection with
     In re American Express Merchants  Litigation ). In
    June 2010, the attorneys representing the plaintiffs in  In re
    American Express Anti-Steering Rules Antitrust
    Litigation  filed an action making similar allegations
    captioned  National Supermarkets Association v. American
    Express and American Express Travel Related Services . Upon
    filing, the plaintiffs designated that case as
     related  to  In re American Express Anti-Steering
    Rules Antitrust Litigation . By agreement of the
    parties, that case has also been partially stayed pending the
    Second Circuit s arbitration ruling referenced above.

In June 2008, five separate lawsuits were filed against American
    Express Company in the United States District Court for the
    Eastern District of New York alleging that the Company s
     anti-steering  provisions in its merchant acceptance
    agreements with the merchant plaintiffs violate federal
    antitrust laws. As alleged by the plaintiffs, these provisions
    prevent merchants from offering consumers incentives to use
    alternative forms of payments when consumers wish to use an
    American Express-branded card. The five suits were filed by each
    of Rite-Aid Corp., CVS Pharmacy Inc., Walgreen Co., Bi-Lo LLC.,
    and H.E. Butt Grocery Company. The plaintiff in each action
    seeks damages and injunctive relief. American Express filed its
    answer to these complaints and also filed a motion to dismiss
    these complaints as time barred. The Court denied the
    Company s motion to dismiss the complaints in March 2010.
    On October 1, 2010, the parties to these actions agreed to
    stay all proceedings pending related mediations, and Magistrate
    Judge Ramon E. Reyes entered an order staying these actions on
    October 18, 2010. The parties have since notified the Court
    that those mediations have reached impasses. On January 21,
    2011, the following parties filed lawsuits making similar
    allegations that the Company s  anti-steering 
    provisions violate antitrust laws: Meijer, Inc., Publix Super
    Markets, Inc., Raley s Inc., Supervalu, Inc., The Kroger
    Co., Safeway, Inc., Ahold U.S.A., Inc., Albertson s LLC,
    Hy-Vee, Inc., and The Great Atlantic   Pacific Tea
    Company, Inc.

In November 2010, two putative class action complaints making
    allegations similar to those in  In re American Express
    Anti-Steering Rules Antitrust Litigation  were filed in
    the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New
    York by Firefly Air Solutions, LLC d/b/a 128 Caf  and
    Plymouth Oil Corp. d/b/a Liberty Gas Station. In addition, in
    December 2010, a putative class action complaint making similar
    allegations, and seeking certification of a Wisconsin-only
    class, was filed by Treehouse Inc. d/b/a Treehouse
    Gift   Home in the United States District Court for
    the Western District of Wisconsin. In January 2011, a putative
    class complaint, captioned  Il Forno v. American Express
    Centurion Bank , seeking certification of a California-only
    class and making allegations similar to those in  In re
    American Express Anti-Steering Rules Antitrust
    Litigation,  was filed in United States District Court for
    the Central District of California.

95

Table of Contents   

On February 7, 2011, in response to a transfer motion filed
    by the plaintiffs in the Plymouth Oil action discussed above,
    the United States Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation
    entered an order centralizing the following actions discussed
    above in the Eastern District of New York for coordinated or
    consolidated pretrial proceedings before the Honorable Nicholas
    G. Garaufis: (a) the putative class action that had been
    previously pending in the Southern District of New York
    captioned  In re American Express Anti-Steering
    Rules Antitrust Litigation ; (b) the putative class
    actions already pending in the Eastern District of New York
    filed by Firefly Air Solutions, LLC and by Plymouth Oil Corp.;
    and (c) the individual merchant suits already pending in
    the Eastern District of New York. On February 15, 2011, the
    United States Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation issued
    a conditional transfer order centralizing the related putative
    class actions pending in the Central District of California and
    Western District of Wisconsin before Judge Garaufis in the
    Eastern District of New York. It is expected that this
    conditional order will soon become final, and that those actions
    will be centralized before Judge Garaufis. A hearing has been
    scheduled for March 2, 2011 to discuss scheduling and
    coordination of the cases that are the subject of coordinated or
    consolidated pretrial proceedings under the Multi-District
    Litigation Panel Order and the DOJ and attorneys general
    litigation discussed above.

Other
    Cases  

In September 2010, a putative class action, captioned
     Meeks v. American Express Centurion Bank , was filed
    in Fulton County Superior Court, Georgia. In October 2010, the
    Company removed the matter to federal court. The complaint
    alleges that plaintiff opened an account in 2005 with an
    interest rate of prime plus an additional marginal rate of
    2.99%. Plaintiff contends that he was promised that the marginal
    rate would remain fixed. Plaintiff alleges that beginning in
    December 2008 the marginal rate began to increase. Plaintiff
    asserts claims for breach of contract, covenant of good faith
    and fair dealing, unconscionability, unjust enrichment and
    duress. Plaintiff seeks to certify a nationwide class of all
    American Express Cardmembers who received unilateral interest
    rate increases despite their accounts being in good standing.
    Plaintiff has filed a motion to remand the case from federal
    court back to state court, and that motion is pending.

In June 2009, a putative class action, captioned  Mesi v.
    American Express Centurion Bank , was filed in the United
    States District Court for the Central District of California.
    The complaint seeks to certify a class of American Express
    Cardmembers with billing addresses in 16 different states
     whose interest rates on their outstanding balances were
    retroactively increased  by the Company. The complaint
    seeks, among other things, damages  in excess of
    $5,000,000  and unspecified injunctive relief. The
    complaint has been amended twice by plaintiff. On
    December 7, 2009, the Court ordered that the matter be
    stayed pending decisions on relevant legal issues in other cases
    not involving American Express.

In October 2009, a putative class action, captioned  Lopez, et
    al. v. American Express Bank, FSB and American Express
    Centurion Bank , was filed in the United States District
    Court for the Central District of California. The complaint
    seeks to certify a nationwide class of American Express
    Cardmembers whose interest rates were changed from fixed to
    variable in or around August 2009 or otherwise increased.
    American Express filed a motion to compel arbitration, and
    plaintiff has amended their complaint to limit the class to
    California residents only. The Company filed a revised motion to
    compel arbitration and a motion to dismiss the amended
    complaint. Both motions were denied by the Court. Subsequently,
    in response to a request by the Company, the Court stayed the
    action pending the outcome of a case captioned  AT T
    Mobility v. Concepcion , which is pending before the
    United States Supreme Court and may impact the question of
    whether the Company s motion to compel arbitration should
    have been granted.

In September 2001,  Hoffman, et al. v. American Express Travel
    Related Services Company, et al.  was filed in the Superior
    Court of the State of California, Alameda County. Plaintiffs in
    that case claim that American Express erroneously charged
    Cardmember accounts in connection with its airflight insurance
    programs because in certain circumstances customers must request
    refunds, as disclosed in materials for the voluntary program. In
    January 2006, the Court certified a class of American Express
    charge Cardmembers asserting claims for breach of contract and
    conversion under New York law, with a subclass of California
    residents asserting violations of California
    Business   Professions Code    17200
    and 17500, and a subclass of New York residents asserting
    violation of New York General Business Law   349.
    American Express sought to compel arbitration of the claims of
    all non-California residents. The motion to compel arbitration
    was

96

Table of Contents   

denied by the trial court, which decision was affirmed by the
    California Court of Appeal on July 6, 2007. The case went
    to trial in November 2008 and January to February 2009. American
    Express was granted judgment on all counts. The plaintiffs have
    filed a notice of appeal; American Express has filed a
    protective notice of appeal to preserve certain legal issues.

In addition, a case making the same factual allegations
    (purportedly on behalf of a different class of Cardmembers) as
    those in the  Hoffman  case is pending in the United States
    District Court for the Eastern District of New York, entitled
     Law Enforcement Systems v. American Express et al. 
    That case was stayed pending the trial in the  Hoffman 
    action. After judgment was rendered for American Express in
     Hoffman , the plaintiff in  Law Enforcement Systems 
    asked the Court to lift the stay and to allow plaintiff to
    obtain certain Cardmember information. The Court denied the
    request. No other activity has occurred in that case. Further,
    on October 30, 2008, a putative class action on behalf of
    American Express credit Cardmembers making the same allegations
    as those raised in the  Hoffman  and  Law Enforcement
    Systems  cases was filed in the United States District Court
    for the Southern District of Florida, captioned  Kass v.
    American Express Card Services, Inc., American Express Company
    and American Express Travel Related Services . On
    March 11, 2009, the  Kass  Court entered an order
    granting the joint motion of the parties to stay the case, and
    the Court also administratively closed the case.

In June 2006, a putative class action captioned  Homa v.
    American Express Company et al.  was filed in the United
    States District Court for the District of New Jersey. The case
    alleges, generally, misleading and fraudulent advertising of the
     tiered   up to 5 percent  cash rebates
    with the Blue Cash card. The complaint initially sought
    certification of a nationwide class consisting of  all
    persons who applied for and received an American Express Blue
    Cash card during the period from September 30, 2003 to the
    present and who did not get the rebate or rebates provided for
    in the offer.  On December 1, 2006, however, plaintiff
    filed a First Amended Complaint dropping the nationwide class
    claims and asserting claims only on behalf of New Jersey
    residents who  while so residing in New Jersey, applied for
    and received an American Express Blue Cash card during the
    period from September 30, 2003 to the present.  The
    plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other unspecified relief
    that the District Court deems appropriate. In May 2007, the
    District Court granted the Company s motion to compel
    individual arbitration and dismissed the complaint. Plaintiff
    appealed that decision to the United States Court of Appeals for
    the Third Circuit, and in February 2009, the Third Circuit
    reversed the decision and remanded the case back to the District
    Court for further proceedings. In October 2009, a putative class
    action captioned  Pagsolingan v. American Express
    Company, et al.  was filed in the United States District
    Court for the Northern District of California. That case made
    allegations that were largely similar to those made in
     Homa , except that  Pagsolingan  alleged multiple
    theories of liability and sought to certify a nationwide class
    of  [a]ll persons who applied for and received an American
    Express Blue Cash card during the period from September 30,
    2003 to the present and who did not get the rebate or rebates
    provided for in the offer.  In May 2010, plaintiffs
    voluntarily dismissed the  Pagsolingan  case in its
    entirety. Subsequently, in response to a request by the Company,
    the District Court stayed the  Homa  action pending the
    outcome of the case  AT T Mobility v.
    Concepcion , which is pending before the United States
    Supreme Court and may impact the question of whether the
    Company s motion to compel arbitration should have been
    granted.

In July 2004, a purported class action captioned  Ross, et
    al. v. American Express Company, American Express Travel
    Related Services and American Express Centurion Bank  was
    filed in the United States District Court for the Southern
    District of New York. The complaint alleges that American
    Express conspired with Visa, MasterCard and Diners Club in the
    setting of foreign currency conversion rates and in the
    inclusion of arbitration clauses in certain of their cardmember
    agreements. The suit seeks injunctive relief and unspecified
    damages. The class is defined as  all Visa, MasterCard and
    Diners Club general-purpose cardholders who used cards issued by
    any of the MDL Defendant Banks.  American Express
    cardholders are not part of the class. In September 2005, the
    District Court denied the Company s motion to dismiss the
    action and preliminarily certified an injunction class of Visa
    and MasterCard cardholders to determine the validity of
    Visa s and MasterCard s cardmember arbitration
    clauses. American Express filed a motion for reconsideration
    with the District Court, which motion was denied in September
    2006. The Company filed an appeal from the District Court s
    order denying its motion to compel arbitration. In October 2008,
    the United States Court of Appeals

97

Table of Contents   

for the Second Circuit denied the Company s appeal and
    remanded the case to the District Court for further proceedings.
    In January 2010, the Court (1) certified a damage class of
    all Visa, MasterCard and Diners Club general purpose cardholders
    who used cards issued by any of the alleged co-conspiring banks
    during the period July 22, 2000 to November 8, 2006,
    who were assessed a foreign exchange transaction fee or
    surcharge and who have submitted valid claims in  In re
    Currency Conversion Antitrust Litigation , and
    (2) denied American Express  motion to amend its
    answer to add the affirmative defense of release. In June 2010,
    the Company filed a motion for summary judgment with the Court,
    which seeks dismissal of plaintiff s complaint, and that
    motion is pending.

International
    Matters  

In November 2006, in a matter captioned  Sylvan Adams v.
    Amex Bank of Canada  filed in the Superior Court of Quebec,
    District of Montreal (originally filed in November 2004), the
    Superior Court authorized a class action against Amex Bank of
    Canada. The plaintiff alleges that prior to December 2003, Amex
    Bank of Canada charged a foreign currency conversion commission
    on transactions to purchase goods and services in currencies
    other than Canadian dollars and failed to disclose the
    commissions in monthly billing statements or solicitations
    directed to prospective cardmembers. The class, consisting of
    all Cardmembers in Quebec that purchased goods or services in a
    foreign currency prior to December 2003, claims reimbursement of
    all foreign currency conversion commissions, CDN$1,000 in
    punitive damages per class member, interest and fees and costs.
    The trial in the  Adams  action commenced, and was
    completed, in December 2008 after the conclusion of the trial in
    the  Marcotte  action described below. The Superior Court
    rendered a judgment in favor of the plaintiffs against Amex Bank
    of Canada on June 11, 2009, and awarded damages in the
    amount of CDN$11.2 million plus interest on the
    non-disclosure claims. In addition, the Superior Court awarded
    punitive damages in the amount of CDN$2.2 million. The
    judgment has been appealed by Amex Bank of Canada. The appeal is
    scheduled to be heard by the Quebec Court of Appeal in September
    2011.

In May 2006, in a matter captioned  Marcotte v. Bank of
    Montreal et al. , filed in the Superior Court of Quebec,
    District of Montreal (originally filed in April 2003), the
    Superior Court authorized a class action against Amex Bank of
    Canada, Bank of Montreal, Toronto-Dominion Bank, Royal Bank of
    Canada, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Scotiabank, National
    Bank of Canada, Laurentian Bank of Canada and Citibank Canada.
    The action alleges that conversion commissions made on foreign
    currency transactions are credit charges under the Quebec
    Consumer Protection Act (the QCPA) and cannot be charged prior
    to the
     21-day  grace
    period under the QCPA. The class includes all persons holding a
    credit card issued by one of the defendants to whom fees were
    charged since April 17, 2000, for transactions made in
    foreign currency before expiration of the period of 21 days
    following the statement of account. The class claims
    reimbursement of all foreign currency conversions, CDN$400 per
    class member for trouble, inconvenience and punitive damages,
    interest and fees and costs. The trial in the  Marcotte 
    action commenced in September 2008 and was completed in
    November. The Superior Court rendered a judgment in favor of the
    plaintiffs against Amex Bank of Canada on June 11, 2009,
    and awarded damages in the amount of CDN$7.1 million plus
    interest on the QCPA claims and individual claims to be made on
    the non-disclosure claims. In addition, the Superior Court
    awarded punitive damages in the amount of CDN$21.52 per
    cardmember. The judgment has been appealed by all banks,
    including Amex Bank of Canada. The appeal is scheduled to be
    heard by the Quebec Court of Appeal in September 2011.

In November 2010 and December 2010, two motions to authorize
    class actions were filed in the Superior Court of Quebec,
    District of Montreal, under the class representative names of
     Giroux  and  Marcotte . Both class actions set out
    the same allegations as the  Marcotte  class action filed
    in 2006 except the timeframe for the new class actions starts as
    of January 1, 2008 wherein the  Marcotte  case under
    appeal ends as of December 31, 2007. Both class actions are
    pending certification as two law firms filed the same class
    action. A judge will decide which case will be certified and who
    will represent the class going forward.

While the  Marcotte  and  Adams  cases proceeded
    before the Superior Court, several class actions filed in the
    Province of Quebec remained dormant; however, those actions (set
    out below) have recently become active.

98

Table of Contents   

In November 2006, in a matter captioned  Option Consommateurs
    and Benoit Fortin v. Amex Bank of Canada  filed in the
    Superior Court of Quebec, District of Montreal (originally filed
    in July 2003), the Superior Court authorized a class action
    against Amex Bank of Canada. The plaintiff alleges the defendant
    violated the QCPA by imposing finance charges on credit card
    transactions prior to 21 days following the receipt of the
    statement containing the charge. It is alleged that the QCPA
    provisions, which require a
     21-day  grace
    period prior to imposing finance charges, apply to credit cards
    issued by Amex Bank of Canada in Quebec and all finance charges
    imposed within the 21 day grace period are contrary to the
    QCPA. The class seeks reimbursement of all such finance charges,
    CDN$200 in punitive damages per class member, interest, fees and
    costs. A motion was brought in October 2010 to extend the class
    period from July 18, 2000 to August 31, 2010. No
    discovery has been scheduled in this matter but one has taken
    place in a parallel class action against several banks in late
    2010. Further discoveries of a co-defendant will take place in
    early 2011. In May 2005, a motion for authorization of a similar
    class action was filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District
    of Quebec City captioned as  Option Consommateurs and
    Joel-Christian St-Pierre v. Bank of Montreal et al 
    alleging that Amex unlawfully charged interest 21 days from
    the date of the printing of the statement as opposed to the date
    of the mailing of the statement. The proposed class seeks
    reimbursement of all finance charges imposed, CDN$100 in
    punitive damages per class member, interest and fees and costs.
    The  St. Pierre  class motion is stayed pending final
    judgment in  Marcotte .

In October 2007, in a matter captioned  Option Consommateurs
    and Marylou Corriveau v. Amex Bank of Canada et al. ,
    filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District of Montreal
    (originally filed in December 2006), the Superior Court
    authorized a class action against Amex Bank of Canada, Canadian
    Imperial Bank of Commerce, National Bank of Canada, Royal Bank
    of Canada, Bank of Nova Scotia, Banque Laurentienne du Canada,
    President s Choice Bank, Toronto Dominion Bank, Bank of
    Montreal, Citibank Canada, Federation de Caisses Desjardins du
    Quebec and MBNA Canada. The action alleges that cash advance
    fees for transactions in Canada or abroad cannot be charged
    under QCPA. The class includes all persons party to a variable
    credit agreement concluded in Quebec for a purpose other than
    the operation of a business and who paid the defendants from
    October 4, 2001. A motion was granted in October 2010 to
    extend the class period from October 4, 2001 to
    September 30, 2010. It is alleged the QCPA provisions apply
    to credit cards issued by Amex Bank of Canada in Quebec and all
    cash advance fees imposed are contrary to the QCPA. The class
    seeks reimbursement of all such cash advance fees, CDN$200 in
    punitive damages per class member, interest and costs. No
    discovery has been scheduled in this matter but one has taken
    place in a parallel class action against several banks in late
    2010. Further discoveries of a co-defendant will take place in
    early 2011.

In October 2007, in a matter captioned  Option Consommateurs
    and Serge Lamoureux v. Amex Bank of Canada et al. ,
    filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District of Montreal
    (originally filed in December 2006), the Court authorized a
    class action against Amex Bank of Canada, Banque du Montreal,
    Banque Royale du Canada, Banque Nationale du Canada, Banque
    Canadienne Imperiale de Commerce, Citibanque Canada, MBNA Canada
    and Banque de Nouvelle-Ecosse. The plaintiff alleges the
    defendants violated the QCPA, by unilaterally increasing credit
    card limits without consent and charging over limit fees from
    January 12, 2001. There are two distinct areas of the
    claim. Amex is not part of the first portion of the claim
    dealing with the unilateral increase without consent under the
    QCPA. Amex is included in the second portion of the claim
    permitting Cardmembers to make charges at the point of sale that
    exceed their credit limit thereby incurring an over limit fee
    for these occurrences contrary to the QCPA. The action alleges
    the QCPA provisions apply to credit cards issued by Amex Bank of
    Canada in Quebec. A motion was granted in October 2010 to extend
    the class period from January 12, 2001 to
    September 30, 2010. The class seeks reimbursement of all
    over limit fees imposed, CDN$200 in punitive damages per class
    member, interest and costs. Discovery of Amex was held in
    December 2010.

99

Table of Contents   

PART II  

ITEM 5.    

MARKET
    FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
    AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

(a) Our common stock trades principally on The New York
    Stock Exchange under the trading symbol AXP. As of
    December 31, 2010, we had 32,776 common shareholders of
    record. You can find price and dividend information concerning
    our common stock in Note 27 to our Consolidated Financial
    Statements, which can be found on page 119 of our 2010
    Annual Report to Shareholders, which note is incorporated herein
    by reference. For information on dividend restrictions, please
    see  Financial Review   Share Repurchases and
    Dividends  on page 41 and Note 23 on
    page 111 of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, which
    information is incorporated herein by reference. You can find
    information on securities authorized for issuance under our
    equity compensation plans under the captions  Executive
    Compensation   Share Plans,  and  Executive
    Compensation   Equity Compensation Plan
    Information  to be contained in the Company s
    definitive 2011 proxy statement for our Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders, which is scheduled to be held on May 2, 2011.
    The information to be found under such captions is incorporated
    herein by reference. Our definitive 2011 proxy statement for our
    Annual Meeting of Shareholders is expected to be filed with the
    SEC in March 2011 (and, in any event, not later than
    120 days after the close of our most recently completed
    fiscal year).

Under the Treasury s Capital Purchase Program pursuant to
    the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, we announced
    on January 9, 2009, the receipt of aggregate proceeds of
    $3.39 billion from the Treasury in exchange for the sale to
    the Treasury of (i) 3,388,890 shares of our Fixed Rate
    Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, par value
    $1.66 2 / 3 
    per share (the  Series A Preferred Stock ),
    having a liquidation preference per share equal to $1,000 and
    (ii) a ten-year warrant (the  Warrant ) to
    purchase up to 24,264,129 shares of our common shares at an
    initial per share exercise price of $20.95 per share. We
    repurchased all of the Series A Preferred Stock in June
    2009 and repurchased the Warrant in July 2009. For additional
    information about these transactions, please see our Current
    Reports on
     Form 8-K 
    filed on January 9, 2009, June 17, 2009 and
    July 29, 2009.

(b) Not applicable.

(c) ISSUER PURCHASES OF SECURITIES 

The table below sets forth the information with respect to
    purchases of the Company s common stock made by or on
    behalf of the Company during the quarter ended December 31,
    2010.

100

Table of Contents   

(1)  

As of December 31, 2010, there were approximately
    86 million shares of common stock remaining under the
    authorization of the Company s Board of Directors. Such
    authorization does not have an expiration date, and at present,
    there is no intention to modify or otherwise rescind such
    authorization. Since the program was first announced in
    September 1994, the Company has acquired 684 million shares
    of common stock under various Board authorizations to repurchase
    up to an aggregate of 770 million shares, including
    purchases made under agreements with third parties. 

(2)  

Includes: (a) shares delivered by or deducted from holders
    of employee stock options who exercised options (granted under
    the Company s incentive compensation plans) in satisfaction
    of the exercise price and/or tax withholding obligation of such
    holders and (b) restricted shares withheld (under the terms
    of grants under the Company s incentive compensation plans)
    to offset tax withholding obligations that occur upon vesting
    and release of restricted shares. The Company s incentive
    compensation plans provide that the value of the shares
    delivered or attested to, or withheld, be based on the price of
    the Company s common stock on the date the relevant
    transaction occurs. 

(3)  

Share purchases under publicly announced programs are made
    pursuant to open market purchases or privately negotiated
    transactions (including with employee benefit plans) as market
    conditions warrant and at prices the Company deems appropriate. 

ITEM 6.    

SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA  

The  Consolidated Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial
    Data  appearing on page 120 of our 2010 Annual Report
    to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.    

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS  

The information set forth under the heading  Financial
    Review  appearing on pages 20-64 of our 2010 Annual
    Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A.    

QUANTITATIVE
    AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

The information set forth under the heading  Risk
    Management  appearing on pages 48-50 and in
    Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements on
    pages 92-95 of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders is
    incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.    

FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

The  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm  (PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP), the  Consolidated
    Financial Statements  and the  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements  appearing on pages 67-119 of our
    2010 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by
    reference.

ITEM 9.    

CHANGES
    IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.    

CONTROLS
    AND PROCEDURES  

The Company s management, with the participation of the
    Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s
    disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Exchange Act as of the end of the period covered by
    this Report. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive
    Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of
    the end of such period, the Company s disclosure controls
    and procedures are effective and designed to ensure that the
    information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or
    submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
    summarized and reported within the requisite time periods
    specified in the applicable rules and forms, and that it is
    accumulated and communicated to our management, including

101

Table of Contents   

our principal executive officer and principal financial officer,
    as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required
    disclosure.

There have not been any changes in the Company s internal
    control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Exchange Act) during the Company s fourth quarter
    that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
    materially affect, the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting.

Management s Report on Internal Control over
    Financial Reporting,  which sets forth management s
    evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, and the
     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm  on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
    control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010,
    appearing on pages 65-66 of our 2010 Annual Report to
    Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9B.    

OTHER
    INFORMATION  

On February 24, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company
    approved an amendment to Section 2.2 of the Company s
    By-laws (the  Amendment ). Section 2.2 was
    amended to allow shareholders holding at least 25% of the
    outstanding common stock of the Company, determined to be
     Net Long Shares  (as described in the Amendment), to
    request that the Company hold a special meeting of shareholders.

Shareholders requesting the special meeting are required to
    disclose certain information, including information required by
    the Company s advance notice By-laws, with respect to any
    proposed business or director nominations at the special
    meeting. Additionally, the shareholders requesting the special
    meeting must acknowledge that any reduction in Net Long Shares
    held by the requesting shareholders acts as a revocation of the
    meeting request to the extent of the reduction and agree to
    inform the Company following any reduction in Net Long Shares
    held by the requesting shareholders. The requesting shareholders
    are required to update the disclosure required by the Amendment
    as of the record date for the special meeting (and, in the case
    of documentation of their share ownership, as of a date no later
    than five business days before the scheduled date of the special
    meeting).

The Amendment enumerates certain instances in which a special
    meeting need not be called, including because the request for
    the special meeting: is contrary to the By-laws; is not an
    appropriate subject for shareholder action; is made less than
    90 days prior to the anniversary date of the preceding
    annual meeting; relates to a substantially similar item (other
    than election or removal of directors) that was voted on in the
    past year; relates to the election or removal of directors and a
    meeting at which directors were elected or removed was held
    within the past 90 days; relates to a substantially similar
    item, including election or removal of directors, that will be
    voted on at an annual or special meeting to be held within
    120 days; or was made in violation of the proxy rules.

The foregoing description of the Amendment does not purport to
    be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the
    amended By-laws which are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.5
    and incorporated by reference herein.

PART III  

ITEMS 10,
    11, 12 and 13.    

DIRECTORS,
    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE; EXECUTIVE
    COMPENSATION; SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
    AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS; CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
    INDEPENDENCE  

We expect to file with the SEC, in March 2011 (and, in any
    event, not later than 120 days after the close of our last
    fiscal year), a definitive proxy statement, pursuant to SEC
    Regulation 14A in connection with our

102

Table of Contents   

Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 2, 2011,
    which involves the election of directors. The following
    information to be included in such proxy statement is
    incorporated herein by reference:

information included under the caption  Corporate
    Governance   Independence of Directors 

information included in the table under the caption  Board
    Meetings   Membership on Board Committees 

information under the captions  Corporate
    Governance   Compensation and Benefits
    Committee   Compensation Committee Interlocks and
    Insider Participation  and  Report of the Compensation
    and Benefits Committee 

information included under the caption  Corporate
    Governance   Audit and Risk Committee 

information included under the caption  Compensation of
    Directors 

information included under the caption  Ownership of Our
    Common Shares 

information included under the caption
     Item 1   Election of Directors 

information included under the caption  Executive
    Compensation 

information under the caption  Certain Relationships and
    Transactions 

information under the caption  Section 16(a)
    Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance. 

In addition, the information regarding executive officers called
    for by Item 401(b) of
     Regulation S-K 
    may be found under the caption  Executive Officers of the
    Company  in this Report.

We have adopted a set of Corporate Governance Principles, which
    together with the charters of the five standing committees of
    the Board of Directors (Audit and Risk; Compensation and
    Benefits; Innovation and Technology; Nominating and Governance;
    and Public Responsibility), our Code of Conduct (which
    constitutes the Company s code of ethics), and the Code of
    Business Conduct for the Members of the Board of Directors,
    provide the framework for the governance of the Company. A
    complete copy of our Corporate Governance Principles, the
    charters of each of the Board committees, the Code of Conduct
    (which applies not only to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief
    Financial Officer and Comptroller, but also to all other
    employees of the Company) and the Code of Business Conduct for
    the Members of the Board of Directors may be found by clicking
    on the  Corporate Governance  link found on our
    Investor Relations Web site at
     http://ir.americanexpress.com. 
    You may also access our Investor Relations Web site through the
    Company s main Web site at www.americanexpress.com by
    clicking on the  About American Express  link, which
    is located at the bottom of the Company s homepage.
    (Information from such sites is not incorporated by reference
    into this Report.) You may also obtain free copies of these
    materials by writing to our Secretary at the Company s
    headquarters.

ITEM 14.    

PRINCIPAL
    ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

The information set forth under the heading
     Item 2   Ratification of the Appointment of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   Audit
    Fees;     Audit-Related Fees; 
       Tax Fees;     All Other
    Fees;  and    Policy on Pre-Approval of
    Services Provided by Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm,  which will appear in the Company s definitive
    proxy statement in connection with our Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders to be held May 2, 2011, is incorporated herein
    by reference.

PART IV  

ITEM 15.    

EXHIBITS,
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

(a)

103

Table of Contents   

1.  Financial Statements :

The financial statements filed as a part of this Report are
    listed on
     page F-1 
    hereof under  Index to Financial Statements,  which is
    incorporated herein by reference.

2.  Financial Statement Schedules :

All schedules are omitted since the required information is
    either not applicable, not deemed material, or shown in the
    respective financial statements or in notes thereto.

3.  Exhibits :

The list of exhibits required to be filed as exhibits to this
    Report is listed on pages
     E-1  through
     E-4  hereof
    under  Exhibit Index,  which is incorporated
    herein by reference.

104

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY

/s/   DANIEL
    T. HENRY 

Daniel T. Henry 

Executive Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer 

February 25, 2011

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the Company and in the capacities and on the date
    indicated.

/s/   Kenneth
    I. Chenault 

Kenneth
    I. Chenault 
    Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and 
    Director 

/s/   Jan
    Leschly 

Jan
    Leschly 
    Director 

/s/   Daniel
    T. Henry 

Daniel
    T. Henry 
    Executive Vice President and 
    Chief Financial Officer 

/s/   Richard
    C. Levin  

Richard
    C. Levin 
    Director 

/s/   Joan
    C. Amble  

Joan
    C. Amble 
    Executive Vice President and 
    Comptroller 

/s/   Richard
    A. McGinn  

Richard
    A. McGinn 
    Director 

/s/   Daniel
    F. Akerson 

Daniel
    F. Akerson 
    Director 

/s/   Edward
    D. Miller  

Edward
    D. Miller 
    Director 

/s/   Charlene
    Barshefsky 

Charlene
    Barshefsky 
    Director 

/s/   Steven
    S Reinemund 

Steven
    S Reinemund 
    Director 

/s/   Ursula
    M. Burns 

Ursula
    M. Burns 
    Director 

/s/   Robert
    D. Walter 

Robert
    D. Walter 
    Director 

/s/   Peter
    Chernin  

Peter
    Chernin 
    Director 

/s/   Ronald
    A. Williams 

Ronald
    A. Williams 
    Director 

/s/   Theodore
    J. Leonsis  

Theodore
    J. Leonsis 
    Director  

February 25, 2011

105

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY 
     
     INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
       
    (Items 15(a)(1) and 15(a)(2) of
     Form 10-K)   

Annual Report 

to Shareholders 

Form 10-K 

(Page) 

American Express Company and Subsidiaries:

Data incorporated by reference from 2010 Annual Report to
    Shareholders:

Management s report on internal control over financial
    reporting

65

Report of independent registered public accounting firm
    (PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP)

66

Consolidated statements of income for each of the three years in
    the period ended December 31, 2010

68

Consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009

69

Consolidated statements of cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 31, 2010

70

Consolidated statements of shareholders  equity for each of
    the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010

71

Notes to consolidated financial statements

72

Consent of independent registered public accounting firm

F-2

Schedules:

All schedules for American Express Company and subsidiaries have
    been omitted since the required information is not present or
    not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the
    schedule, or because the information required is included in the
    respective financial statements or notes thereto. Refer to
    Notes 5 and 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in
    our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders for information on
    accounts receivable reserves, loan reserves and condensed
    financial information of the Parent Company only, respectively.

*     *     *

The Consolidated Financial Statements of American Express
    Company (including the report of independent registered public
    accounting firm) listed in the above index, which are included
    in our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, are hereby
    incorporated by reference. With the exception of the pages
    listed in the above index, unless otherwise incorporated by
    reference elsewhere in this Report, our 2010 Annual Report to
    Shareholders is not to be deemed filed as part of this report.

F-1

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 23.1  

CONSENT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
    Registration Statements
     (Form S-8 
     No. 2-46918, 
     No. 2-59230, 
     No. 2-64285, 
     No. 2-73954, 
     No. 2-89680, 
     No. 33-01771, 
     No. 33-02980, 
     No. 33-28721, 
     No. 33-33552, 
     No. 33-36442, 
     No. 33-48629, 
     No. 33-62124, 
     No. 33-65008, 
     No. 33-53801, 
     No. 333-12683, 
     No. 333-41779, 
     No. 333-52699, 
     No. 333-73111, 
     No. 333-38238, 
     No. 333-98479; 
    and
     No. 333-142710; 
     Form S-3 
     No. 2-89469, 
     No. 33-43268, 
     No. 33-50997, 
     No. 333-32525, 
     No. 333-45445, 
     No. 333-47085, 
     No. 333-55761, 
     No. 333-51828, 
     No. 333-113768, 
     No. 333-117835, 
     No. 333-138032 
    and
     333-162791) 
    of American Express Company of our report dated
    February 25, 2011, relating to the consolidated financial
    statements and the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting, which appears in the 2010 Annual Report to
    Shareholders, which is incorporated by reference in this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

February 25, 2011

F-2

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX  

The following exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report.
    The exhibit numbers preceded by an asterisk (*) indicate
    exhibits electronically filed herewith. All other exhibit
    numbers indicate exhibits previously filed and are hereby
    incorporated herein by reference. Exhibits numbered 10.1 through
    10.34, 10.38, 10.39, 10.41, 10.42 and 10.44 through 10.46 are
    management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.

E-1

Table of Contents   

E-2

Table of Contents   

E-3

Table of Contents   

**  

These interactive data files are furnished and deemed not filed
    or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes
    of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as
    amended, are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise
    are not subject to liability under those sections. 

E-4

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
      Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
    SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF  

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
    1934  

American Express
    Company  

(Exact name of Company as
    specified in charter)  

EXHIBITS 

<EX-3.5>
 2
 y87970exv3w5.htm
 EX-3.5

exv3w5 

Exhibit 3.5  

BY-LAWS  

OF 

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

(A New York Corporation) 

(As
    amended and restated as of February 24, 2011)  

BY-LAWS 
    OF 
    AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY  

ARTICLE I 

OFFICES

SECTION 1.1 PRINCIPAL OFFICE. The principal office of the
    corporation within the State of New York shall be located in the
    City of New York, County of New York.

SECTION 1.2 OTHER OFFICES. The corporation may have such
    other offices and places of business within and without the
    State of New York as the business of the corporation may require.

ARTICLE II 

SHAREHOLDERS

SECTION 2.1 ANNUAL MEETING. The annual meeting of the
    shareholders for the election of directors and for the
    transaction of other business shall be held at such place,
    within or without the State of New York, on such date and at
    such time as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors
    (hereinafter referred to as the  Board ) from time to
    time. If the election of directors shall not be held on the date
    so fixed for the annual meeting, a special meeting of the
    shareholders for the election of directors shall be called
    forthwith in the manner provided herein for special meetings, or
    as may otherwise be provided by law. (B.C.L.
    Section 602.)(Footnote 1)

SECTION 2.2 SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of the
    shareholders may be held for such purpose or purposes as shall
    be specified in a call for such meeting made by
    (i) resolution of the Board or by a majority of the
    directors then in office or by the Chief Executive Officer, or
    (ii) solely to the extent required by this
    Section 2.2, by the Secretary. (B.C.L. Section 602(c).)

Subject to the provisions of this Section 2.2 and all other
    applicable sections of these by-laws, a special meeting of
    shareholders shall be called by the Secretary of the corporation
    (the  Secretary ) upon written request (a
     Special Meeting Request ) to the Secretary of one or
    more record holders of common shares of the corporation
    representing not less than 25% of the voting power of all
    outstanding common shares of the corporation which shares are
    determined to be  Net Long Shares  in accordance with
    this Section 2.2 (the  Requisite Percentage ).

For purposes of this Section 2.2 and for determining the
    Requisite Percentage, Net Long Shares shall be limited to the
    number of shares beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by
    any shareholder or beneficial owner that constitute such
    person s net long position as defined in
     Rule 14e-4 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
     Exchange Act ), provided that for purposes of such
    definition the date the tender offer is first announced shall
    instead be the date for determining
     and/or 
    documenting a shareholder s or beneficial owner s Net
    Long Shares and the reference to the highest tender price shall
    refer to the market price on such date and, to the extent not
    covered by such definition, reduced by any shares as to which
    such person does not, at the time the Special Meeting Request is
    delivered to the Company, have the right to vote or direct the
    vote at the Special Meeting or as to which such person has
    entered into a derivative or other agreement, arrangement or
    understanding that hedges or transfers, in whole or in part,
    directly or indirectly, any of the economic consequences of
    ownership of such shares. In addition, to the extent any
    affiliates of the Requesting Shareholder (as defined below) are
    acting in concert with the Requesting Shareholder with respect
    to the calling of the special meeting, the determination of Net
    Long Shares may include the effect of aggregating the Net Long
    Shares (including any negative number) of such affiliate or
    affiliates. Whether shares constitute  Net Long
    Shares  shall be decided by the Board in its reasonable
    determination.

(Footnote 1) This
    and other references to the New York Business Corporation Law
    are not part of the by-laws, but are included solely for
    convenience in locating relevant portions of the statute.

A Special Meeting Request must be delivered by hand or by
    registered U.S. mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
    requested, or courier service, postage prepaid, to the attention
    of the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the
    corporation. A Special Meeting Request shall only be valid if it
    is signed and dated by each shareholder of record submitting the
    Special Meeting Request and by each of the beneficial owners, if
    any, on whose behalf the Special Meeting Request is being made
    (each such record owner and beneficial owner, a  Requesting
    Shareholder ), and includes (i) a statement of the
    specific purpose(s) of the special meeting and the matters
    proposed to be acted on at the special meeting, the text of any
    proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions
    proposed for consideration, and in the event that such business
    includes a proposal to amend the by-laws of the corporation, the
    text of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such
    business at the special meeting, and any material interest in
    such business of each Requesting Shareholder; (ii) in the
    case of any director nominations proposed to be presented at the
    special meeting, the information required by the second
    paragraph of Section 3.11 of these by-laws, including with
    respect to each Requesting Shareholder; (iii) in the case
    of any matter (other than a director nomination) proposed to be
    conducted at the special meeting, the information required by
    the second paragraph of Section 2.9 of these by-laws,
    including with respect to each Requesting Shareholder;
    (iv) a representation that each Requesting Shareholder, or
    one or more representatives of each such shareholder, intends to
    appear in person or by proxy at the special meeting to present
    the proposal(s) or business to be brought before the special
    meeting; (v) a representation as to whether the Requesting
    Shareholders intend, or are part of a group that intends, to
    solicit proxies with respect to the proposals or business to be
    presented at the special meeting; (vi) an agreement by the
    Requesting Shareholders to notify the corporation promptly in
    the event of any decrease in the number of Net Long Shares held
    by the Requesting Shareholders following the delivery of such
    Special Meeting Request and prior to the special meeting and an
    acknowledgement that any such decrease shall be deemed to be a
    revocation of such Special Meeting Request to the extent of such
    reduction; and (vii) documentary evidence that the
    Requesting Shareholders own the Requisite Percentage as of the
    date on which the Special Meeting Request is delivered to the
    Secretary; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if the shareholder(s) of
    record submitting the Special Meeting Request are not the
    beneficial owners of the shares representing the Requisite
    Percentage, then to be valid, the Special Meeting Request must
    also include documentary evidence (or, if not simultaneously
    provided with the Special Meeting Request, such documentary
    evidence must be delivered to the Secretary within 10 days
    after the date on which the Special Meeting Request is delivered
    to the Secretary) that the beneficial owners on whose behalf the
    Special Meeting Request is made beneficially own the Requisite
    Percentage as of the date on which such Special Meeting Request
    is delivered to the Secretary. In addition, each Requesting
    Shareholder shall promptly provide any other information
    reasonably requested by the corporation.

The corporation will provide the Requesting Shareholders with
    notice of the record date for the determination of shareholders
    entitled to vote at the special meeting. Each Requesting
    Shareholder is required to update the notice delivered pursuant
    to this Section 2.2 not later than 10 business days after
    such record date to provide any material changes in the
    foregoing information as of such record date and, with respect
    to the information required under clause (vii) of the
    previous paragraph, also as of a date not more than five
    business days before the scheduled date of the special meeting
    as to which the Special Meeting Request relates.

A Special Meeting Request shall not be valid, and a special
    meeting requested by shareholders shall not be held, if
    (i) the Special Meeting Request does not comply with this
    Section 2.2; (ii) the Special Meeting Request relates
    to an item of business that is not a proper subject for
    shareholder action under applicable law; (iii) the Special
    Meeting Request is delivered during the period commencing
    90 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the
    immediately preceding annual meeting of shareholders and ending
    on the date of the next annual meeting; (iv) an identical
    or substantially similar item (as determined in good faith by
    the Board, a  Similar Item ), other than the election
    or removal of director(s), was presented at an annual or special
    meeting of shareholders held not more than 12 months before
    the Special Meeting Request is delivered; (v) the Special
    Meeting Request relates to the election or removal of
    director(s) and the election or removal of director(s) was
    presented at an annual or special meeting of shareholders held
    not more than 90 days before the Special Meeting Request is
    delivered; (vi) a Similar Item, including the election or
    removal of director(s), is included in the corporation s
    notice of meeting as an item of business to be brought before an

2

annual or special meeting of shareholders that has been called
    but not yet held or that is called for a date within
    120 days of the receipt by the corporation of a Special
    Meeting Request; or (vii) the Special Meeting Request was
    made in a manner that involved a violation of
    Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act or other applicable
    law. The Board shall determine in good faith whether all
    requirements set forth in this Section 2.2 have been
    satisfied and such determination shall be binding on the
    corporation and its shareholders.

Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2.2, a special
    meeting held following a Special Meeting Request shall be held
    at such date, time and place, within or without the State of New
    York, as may be fixed by the Board.

A Requesting Shareholder may revoke a Special Meeting Request by
    written revocation delivered to Secretary at the principal
    executive offices of the corporation at any time prior to the
    special meeting. If, following such revocation (or deemed
    revocation pursuant to clause (vi) of the fourth paragraph
    of this Section 2.2), there are unrevoked requests from
    Requesting Shareholders holding, in the aggregate, less than the
    Requisite Percentage, the Board, in its discretion, may cancel
    the special meeting.

If none of the Requesting Shareholders appear or send a duly
    authorized agent to present the business to be presented for
    consideration specified in the Special Meeting Request, the
    corporation need not present such business for a vote at the
    special meeting, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such
    matter may have been received by the corporation.

Business transacted at any special meeting shall be limited to
    (i) the purpose(s) stated in the valid Special Meeting
    Request for such special meeting and (ii) any additional
    matters the Board determines to submit to the shareholders at
    such special meeting. The chairman of a special meeting shall
    determine all matters relating to the conduct of the special
    meeting, including, without limitation, determining whether to
    adjourn the special meeting and whether any nomination or other
    item of business has been properly brought before the special
    meeting in accordance with these by-laws, and if the chairman
    should so determine and declare that any nomination or other
    item of business has not been properly brought before the
    special meeting, then such business shall not be transacted at
    the special meeting.

SECTION 2.3 NOTICE OF MEETINGS. Notice of all meetings of
    shareholders shall be in writing and shall state the place, date
    and hour of the meeting and such other matters as may be
    required by law. Notice of any special meeting shall also state
    the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called and
    shall indicate that it is being issued by or at the direction of
    the person or persons calling the meeting. A copy of the notice
    of any meeting, shall be given, personally or by mail, not less
    than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the
    meeting, provided that a copy of such notice may be given by
    third class mail not less than twenty-four nor more than sixty
    days before the date of the meeting, to each shareholder
    entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall
    be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, with
    postage thereon prepaid, directed to the shareholder at his
    address as it appears on the record of shareholders, or, if he
    shall have filed with the Secretary of the corporation a written
    request that notices to him be mailed at some other address,
    then directed to him at such other address. Notice of any
    adjourned meeting of the shareholders shall not be required if
    the time and place to which the meeting is adjourned are
    announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, but
    if after the adjournment the Board or Chief Executive Officer
    fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting, notice of the
    adjourned meeting shall be given to each shareholder of record
    on the new record date. (B.C.L. Section 605.)

SECTION 2.4 QUORUM AND VOTING. Except as otherwise provided
    by law or the certificate of incorporation, the holders of a
    majority of the votes of the shares entitled to vote thereat
    shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of the shareholders for
    the transaction of any business, but a lesser interest may
    adjourn any meeting from time to time and from place to place
    until a quorum is obtained. Any business may be transacted at
    any adjourned meeting that might have been transacted at the
    original meeting. When a quorum is once present to organize a
    meeting of shareholders, it is not broken by the subsequent
    withdrawal of any shareholders. Any corporate action taken by
    vote of the shareholders shall, except as otherwise required by
    law or the certificate of incorporation, be authorized by a
    majority of the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders by the
    holders of shares entitled to vote thereon. Every shareholder of
    record shall be entitled at every meeting of shareholders to one
    vote for each share standing in his name on the record of
    shareholders,

3

unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation.
    Neither treasury shares, nor shares held by any other
    corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the
    election of directors of such other corporation is held by the
    corporation, shall be voted at any meeting or counted in
    determining the total number of outstanding shares then entitled
    to vote.

In a non-contested election of directors, any incumbent director
    nominee who is not elected by the shareholders shall immediately
    tender his or her resignation. The Board of Directors shall
    decide whether or not to accept such resignation, and shall
    promptly disclose and explain its decision in a
     Form 8-K 
    (or successor form) filed with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission within 90 days after the date the results of the
    election are certified. An incumbent director who tenders his or
    her resignation pursuant to this paragraph will not participate
    in the Board s deliberations with respect to such
    resignation. In acting on the resignation, the Board shall
    consider all factors that it may deem relevant.

If the incumbent director s resignation is not accepted by
    the Board, he or she shall continue to serve until the next
    annual meeting of shareholders and until his or her successor is
    elected and qualified. If the resignation is accepted or if the
    nominee who failed to receive the required vote is not an
    incumbent director, the Board may fill the resulting vacancy or
    decrease the size of the Board in accordance with these by-laws.
    (B.C.L. Sections 608, 614.)

SECTION 2.5 PROXIES. Every shareholder entitled to vote at
    a meeting of the shareholders may authorize another person to
    vote for him by proxy executed in writing (or in such manner
    permitted by law) by the shareholder or his attorney-in-fact. No
    proxy shall be valid after the expiration of eleven months from
    the date thereof, unless otherwise provided in the proxy. Every
    proxy shall be revocable at the pleasure of the shareholder
    executing it, except that a proxy which is entitled
     irrevocable proxy  and which states that it is
    irrevocable shall be irrevocable when and to the extent
    permitted by law. (B.C.L. Section 609.)

SECTION 2.6 LIST OF SHAREHOLDERS AT MEETINGS. A list of
    shareholders as of the record date, certified by the Secretary
    or by the transfer agent of the corporation, shall be produced
    at any meeting of shareholders upon the request thereat or prior
    thereto of any shareholder. If the right to vote at any meeting
    is challenged, the inspectors of election or person presiding
    thereat shall require such list of shareholders to be produced
    as evidence of the right of the persons challenged to vote at
    such meeting, and all persons who appear from such list to be
    shareholders entitled to vote thereat may vote at such meeting.
    (B.C.L. Section 607.)

SECTION 2.7 WAIVER OF NOTICE. Notice of a
    shareholders  meeting need not be given to any shareholder
    who submits a signed waiver of notice, in person or by proxy,
    whether before or after the meeting. The attendance of any
    shareholder at a meeting, in person or by proxy, without
    protesting prior to the conclusion of the meeting the lack of
    notice of such meeting, shall constitute a waiver of notice by
    him. (B.C.L. Section 606.)

SECTION 2.8 INSPECTORS AT SHAREHOLDERS  MEETINGS. The
    Board, in advance of any shareholders  meeting, may appoint
    one or more inspectors to act at the meeting or any adjournment
    thereof and to perform such duties thereat as are prescribed by
    law. If inspectors are not so appointed, the person presiding at
    a shareholders  meeting shall appoint one or more
    inspectors. In case any person appointed fails to appear or act,
    the vacancy may be filled by appointment made by the Board in
    advance of the meeting or at the meeting by the person presiding
    thereat. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of
    his duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute
    the duties of inspector at such meeting with strict impartiality
    and according to the best of his ability. (B.C.L.
    Section 610.)

SECTION 2.9 BUSINESS TO BE TRANSACTED AT SHAREHOLDERS 
    MEETINGS. Only such business (other than nominations for the
    election of directors to the Board, which must comply with the
    provisions of Section 3.11 of these by-laws) may be
    transacted at any annual meeting of shareholders as is
    (i) specified in the notice of the meeting given by or at
    the direction of the Board (including, if so specified, any
    shareholder proposal submitted pursuant to the rules and
    regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission),
    (ii) otherwise brought before the meeting by or at the
    direction of the Board or (iii) otherwise brought before
    the meeting in accordance with the procedure set forth in the
    following paragraph by a

4

shareholder of the corporation entitled to vote at such meeting.
    This Section 2.9 is expressly intended to apply to any
    business proposed to be brought before an annual meeting of
    shareholders other than any proposal made pursuant to
     Rule 14a-8 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

For business to be brought by a shareholder before an annual
    meeting of shareholders pursuant to clause (iii) above, the
    shareholder must have given written notice thereof to the
    Secretary of the corporation, such notice to be received at the
    principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 90
    nor more than 120 days prior to the one year anniversary of
    the date of the annual meeting of shareholders of the previous
    year; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that in the event that the annual
    meeting of shareholders is called for a date that is not within
    25 days before or after such anniversary date, notice by
    the shareholder must be received at the principal executive
    offices of the corporation not later than the close of business
    on the tenth day following the day on which the
    corporation s notice of the date of the meeting is first
    given or made to the shareholders or disclosed to the general
    public (which disclosure may be effected by means of a publicly
    available filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission),
    whichever occurs first. A shareholder s notice to the
    Secretary shall set forth, as to each matter the shareholder
    proposes to bring before the annual meeting of shareholders,
    (i) a brief description of the business proposed to be
    brought before the annual meeting of shareholders and of the
    reasons for bringing such business before the meeting and, if
    such business includes a proposal to amend either the
    certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, the text of the
    proposed amendment, (ii) the name and record address of the
    shareholder proposing such business, (iii) as to the
    shareholder giving the notice, (A) the class, series and
    number of all shares of the corporation that are owned of record
    or beneficially by such shareholder, (B) the name of each
    nominee holder of shares owned beneficially but not of record by
    such shareholder and the number of shares of the corporation
    held by each such nominee holder, (C) whether and the
    extent to which any derivative instrument, swap, option,
    warrant, short interest, hedge or profit interest has been
    entered into by or on behalf of such shareholder or any of its
    affiliates or associates with respect to the shares of the
    corporation, (D) whether any other transaction, agreement,
    arrangement or understanding (including any short position or
    any borrowing or lending of shares) has been made by or on
    behalf of such shareholder or any of its affiliates or
    associates, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss
    to, or to manage risk or benefit of share price changes for,
    such shareholder or any of its affiliates or associates or to
    increase or decrease the voting power or pecuniary or economic
    interest of such shareholder or any of its affiliates or
    associates with respect to the shares of the corporation, and
    (E) a representation that such shareholder will notify the
    corporation in writing of the information required in
    clauses (A) through (D), in each case as in effect as of
    the record date for the meeting, promptly following the later of
    the record date or the date notice of the record date is first
    publicly disclosed, (iv) any material interest of the
    shareholder in such business and (v) such other information
    relating to the proposal that is required to be disclosed in
    solicitations pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
    as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Securities and
    Exchange Commission or other applicable law.

Notwithstanding anything in these by-laws to the contrary, no
    business (other than nominations for the election of directors
    to the Board, which must comply with the provisions of
    Section 3.11 of these by-laws) shall be conducted at an
    annual meeting of shareholders except in accordance with the
    procedures set forth in this Section 2.9; PROVIDED,
    HOWEVER, that nothing in this Section 2.9 shall be deemed
    to preclude discussion by any shareholder of any business
    properly brought before the annual meeting of shareholders in
    accordance with such procedures. The chairman of an annual
    meeting of shareholders shall, if the facts warrant, determine
    and declare to the meeting that the business was not properly
    brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of
    this Section 2.9, and if he should so determine, he shall
    so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly
    brought before the annual meeting of shareholders shall not be
    transacted.

ARTICLE III 

DIRECTORS

SECTION 3.1 POWERS, NUMBER, QUALIFICATIONS AND TERM OF
    OFFICE. The business of the corporation shall be managed by its
    Board, which shall consist of not less than seven persons, each
    of whom

5

shall be at least twenty-one years of age. Subject to such
    limitation, the number of directors shall be fixed and may be
    increased or decreased from time to time by a majority of the
    entire Board. Directors need not be shareholders. Except as
    otherwise provided by law or these by-laws, the directors shall
    be elected at the annual meetings of the shareholders, and each
    director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of
    shareholders, and until his successor has been elected and
    qualified. Newly created directorships resulting from an
    increase in the number of directors and any vacancies occurring
    in the Board for any reason, including vacancies occurring by
    reason of the removal of any of the directors with or without
    cause, may be filled by vote of a majority of the directors then
    in office, although less than a quorum exists. No decrease in
    the number of directors shall shorten the terms of any incumbent
    director. A director elected to fill a vacancy shall be elected
    to hold office for the unexpired term of his predecessor. If the
    Board has not elected a Chairman of the Board as an officer, it
    may choose a Chairman of the Board from among its members to
    preside at its meetings. (B.C.L. Sections 701, 702, 703,
    705.)

SECTION 3.2 REGULAR MEETINGS. There shall be regular
    meetings of the Board, which may be held on such dates and
    without notice or upon such notice as the Board may from time to
    time determine. Regular meetings shall be held at the principal
    office of the corporation within the State of New York or at
    such other place either within or without the State of New York
    and at such specific time as may be fixed by the Board from time
    to time. There shall also be a regular meeting of the Board,
    which may be held without notice or upon such notice as the
    Board may from time to time determine, after the annual meeting
    of the shareholders or any special meeting of the shareholders
    at which an election of directors is held. (B.C.L.
    Sections 710, 711.)

SECTION 3.3 SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of the Board
    may be held at any place within or without the State of New York
    at any time when called by the Chairman of the Board or the
    President or four or more directors. Notice of the time and
    place of special meetings shall be given to each director by
    serving such notice upon him personally within the City of New
    York at least one day prior to the time fixed for such meeting,
    or by mailing or telegraphing it, prepaid, addressed to him at
    his post office address, as it appears on the books of the
    corporation, at least three days prior to the time fixed for
    such meeting. Neither the call or notice nor any waiver of
    notice need specify the purpose of any meeting of the Board.
    (B.C.L. Sections 710, 711.)

SECTION 3.4 WAIVER OF NOTICE. Notice of a meeting need not
    be given to any director who signs a waiver of notice whether
    before or after the meeting, or who attends the meeting without
    protesting, prior thereto or at its commencement, the lack of
    notice to him. (B.C.L. Section 711(c).)

SECTION 3.5 QUORUM AND VOTING. One-third of the entire
    Board shall constitute a quorum. A majority of the directors
    present, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn any
    meeting to another time and place. Notice of any adjournment
    shall be given to the directors who were not present at the time
    of the adjournment and, unless the time and place of such
    adjournment are announced at the meeting, to the other
    directors. The vote of a majority of the directors present at
    the time of the vote, if a quorum is present at such time, shall
    be the act of the Board, except where a larger vote is required
    by law, the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws.
    (B.C.L. Sections 701, 708, 711(d).)

SECTION 3.6 ACTION BY THE BOARD. Any reference in these
    by-laws to corporate action to be taken by the Board shall mean
    such action at a meeting of the Board. However, any action
    required or permitted to be taken by the Board or any committee
    thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the
    Board or the committee consent in writing to the adoption of a
    resolution authorizing the action. The resolution and the
    written consent thereto by the members of the Board or committee
    shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board
    or committee. Any one or more members of the Board or any
    committee thereof may participate in a meeting of such Board or
    committee by means of a conference telephone or similar
    communications equipment allowing all persons participating in
    the meeting to hear each other at the same time. Participation
    by such means shall constitute presence in person at the
    meeting. (B.C.L. Section 708.)

SECTION 3.7 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD. The Board by
    resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board may
    designate from among its members one or more committees, each
    consisting of three or

6

more directors. Each such committee shall have all the authority
    of the Board to the extent provided in such resolution, except
    as limited by law. No such committee shall exercise its
    authority in a manner inconsistent with any action, direction,
    or instruction of the Board.

The Board may appoint a Chairman of any committee (except for
    the Executive Committee, if one is established, in the case
    where the Chairman of the Executive Committee has been elected
    pursuant to Section 4.1 of these by-laws), who shall
    preside at meetings of their respective committees. The Board
    may fill any vacancy in any committee and may designate one or
    more directors as alternate members of such committee, who may
    replace any absent member or members at any meeting of such
    committee. Each such committee shall serve at the pleasure of
    the Board, but in no event beyond its first meeting following
    the annual meeting of the shareholders.

All acts done and powers conferred by any committee pursuant to
    the foregoing authorization shall be deemed to be and may be
    certified as being done or conferred under authority of the
    Board.

A record of the proceedings of each committee shall be kept and
    submitted at the next regular meeting of the Board.

At least one-third but not less than two of the members of any
    committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
    business, and the vote of a majority of the members present at
    the time of the vote, if a quorum is present at such time, shall
    be the act of the committee. If a committee or the Board shall
    establish regular meetings of any committee, such meetings may
    be held without notice or upon such notice as the committee may
    from time to time determine. Notice of the time and place of
    special meetings of any committee shall be given to each member
    of the committee in the same manner as in the case of special
    meetings of the Board. Notice of a meeting need not be given to
    any member of a committee who signs a waiver of notice whether
    before or after the meeting, or who attends the meeting without
    protesting, prior thereto or at its commencement, the lack of
    notice to him. Except as otherwise provided in these by- laws,
    each committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure. (B.C.L.
    Section 712.)

SECTION 3.8 COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS. The Board shall have
    authority to fix the compensation of directors for services in
    any capacity. (B.C.L. Section 713(e).)

SECTION 3.9 RESIGNATION AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS. Any
    director may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof
    to the Chief Executive Officer or to the Board, and such
    resignation shall take effect at the time therein specified
    without the necessity of further action. Any director may be
    removed with or without cause by vote of the shareholders, or
    with cause by action of the Board. (B.C.L. Section 706.)

SECTION 3.10 THE  ENTIRE BOARD . As used in these
    by-laws the term  the entire Board  or  the
    entire Board of Directors  means the total number of
    directors which the corporation would have if there were no
    vacancies. (B.C.L. Section 702.)

SECTION 3.11 NOMINATION OF DIRECTORS. Subject to the rights
    of holders of any class or series of shares having a preference
    over the common shares as to dividends or upon liquidation,
    nominations for the election of directors may only be made
    (i) by the Board or a committee appointed by the Board or
    (ii) by a shareholder of the corporation entitled to vote
    at the meeting at which a person is to be nominated in
    accordance with the procedure set forth in the following
    paragraph.

A shareholder may nominate a person or persons for election as
    directors only if the shareholder has given written notice of
    its intent to make such nomination to the Secretary of the
    corporation, such notice to be received at the principal
    executive offices of the corporation (i) with respect to an
    annual meeting of shareholders, not less than 90 nor more than
    120 days prior to the one year anniversary of the date of
    the annual meeting of shareholders of the previous year;
    PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that in the event that the annual meeting of
    shareholders is called for a date that is not within
    25 days before or after such anniversary date, notice by
    the shareholder must be received at the principal executive
    offices of the corporation not later than the close of business
    on the tenth day following the day on which the
    corporation s notice of the date of the meeting is first
    given or made to the shareholders or disclosed to the general
    public (which disclosure may be effected by means of a publicly
    available filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission),
    whichever

7

occurs first and (ii) with respect to a special meeting of
    shareholders called for the purpose of electing directors, not
    later than the close of business on the tenth day following the
    day on which the corporation s notice of the date of the
    meeting is first given or made to the shareholders or disclosed
    to the general public (which disclosure may be effected by means
    of a publicly available filing with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission), whichever occurs first. A shareholder s notice
    to the Secretary shall set forth (i) the name and record
    address of the shareholder who intends to make such nomination,
    (ii) the name, age, business and residence addresses and
    principal occupation of each person to be nominated,
    (iii) as to the shareholder giving the notice, (A) the
    class, series and number of all shares of the corporation that
    are owned of record or beneficially by such shareholder,
    (B) the name of each nominee holder of shares owned
    beneficially but not of record by such shareholder and the
    number of shares the corporation held by each such nominee
    holder, (C) whether and the extent to which any derivative
    instrument, swap, option, warrant, short interest, hedge or
    profit interest has been entered into by or on behalf of such
    shareholder or any of its affiliates or associates with respect
    to the shares of the corporation, (D) whether any other
    transaction, agreement, arrangement or understanding (including
    any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares) has
    been made by or on behalf of such shareholder or any of its
    affiliates or associates, the effect or intent of which is to
    mitigate loss to, or to manage risk or benefit of share price
    changes for, such shareholder or any of its affiliates or
    associates or to increase or decrease the voting power or
    pecuniary or economic interest of such shareholder or any of its
    affiliates or associates with respect to the shares of the
    corporation, and (E) a representation that such shareholder
    will notify the corporation in writing of the information
    required in clauses (A) through (D), in each case as in
    effect as of the record date for the meeting, promptly following
    the later of the record date or the date notice of the record
    date is first publicly disclosed, (iv) a description of all
    arrangements and understandings between the shareholder and each
    proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including
    their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made
    by such shareholder, (v) such other information relating to
    the person(s) that is required to be disclosed in solicitations
    for proxies for election of directors pursuant to the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations
    of the Securities and Exchange Commission or other applicable
    law and (vi) the written consent of each proposed nominee
    to be named as a nominee and to serve as a director of the
    corporation if elected, together with an undertaking, signed by
    each proposed nominee, to furnish to the corporation any
    information it may request upon the advice of counsel for the
    purpose of determining such proposed nominee s eligibility
    to serve as a director. The chairman of the meeting shall, if
    the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a
    nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing
    procedures and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to
    the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.

ARTICLE IV 

OFFICERS AND
    OFFICIALS

SECTION 4.1 OFFICERS. The Board shall elect a Chairman of
    the Board or a President or both, and a Secretary, a Treasurer
    and a Comptroller and may elect such other officers, including a
    Chairman of the Executive Committee and one or more Vice
    Chairmen of the Board, as the Board shall determine. Each
    officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as are
    provided in these by-laws and as may be provided from time to
    time by the Board or by the Chief Executive Officer. Each
    officer shall at all times be subject to the control of the
    Board, and any power or duty assigned to an officer by these
    by-laws or the Board or the Chief Executive Officer shall be
    subject to control, withdrawal or limitation by the Board.
    (B.C.L. Section 715.)

SECTION 4.2 QUALIFICATIONS. Any person may hold two or more
    offices, except that neither the Chairman nor the President
    shall be Secretary or Treasurer. The Board may require any
    officer to give security for the faithful performance of his
    duties. (B.C.L. Sections 715(e) and (f).)

SECTION 4.3 ELECTION AND TERMINATION. The Board shall elect
    officers at the meeting of the Board following the annual
    meeting of the shareholders and may elect additional officers
    and fill vacancies at any other time. Unless the Board shall
    otherwise specify, each officer shall hold office until the
    meeting of the Board following the next annual meeting of the
    shareholders, and until his successor has been elected and
    qualified, except as hereinafter provided. The Board may remove
    any officer or terminate his duties and

8

powers, at any time, with or without cause. Any officer may
    resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Chief
    Executive Officer or to the Board, or by retiring or by leaving
    the employ of the corporation (without being employed by a
    subsidiary or affiliate) and any such action shall take effect
    as a resignation without necessity of further action. The Chief
    Executive Officer may suspend any officer until the next meeting
    of the Board. (B.C.L. Sections 715, 716.)

SECTION 4.4 DELEGATION OF POWERS. Each officer may delegate
    to any other officer and to any official, employee or agent of
    the corporation, such portions of his powers as he shall deem
    appropriate, subject to such limitations and expirations as he
    shall specify, and may revoke such delegation at any time.

SECTION 4.5 CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD. The Chairman of the
    Board may be, but need not be, a person other than the Chief
    Executive Officer of the corporation. The Chairman of the Board
    may be, but need not be, an officer or employee of the
    corporation. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at meetings
    of the Board of Directors and shall establish agendas for such
    meetings. In addition, he shall assure that matters of
    significant interest to shareholders and the investment
    community are addressed by management. The Chairman of the Board
    shall be an ex-officio member of each of the standing committees
    of the Board, except for the Executive Committee, of which he
    shall be a member.

SECTION 4.6 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The Chief Executive
    Officer shall, subject to the direction of the Board, have
    general and active control of the affairs and business of the
    corporation and general supervision of its officers, officials,
    employees and agents. He shall preside at all meetings of the
    shareholders. He shall also preside at all meetings of the Board
    and any committee thereof of which he is a member, unless the
    Board or such committee shall have chosen another chairman. He
    shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board are
    carried into effect, and in addition he shall have all the
    powers and perform all the duties generally appertaining to the
    office of the Chief Executive Officer of a corporation. The
    Chief Executive Officer shall designate the person or persons
    who shall exercise his powers and perform his duties in his
    absence or disability and the absence or disability of the
    President.

SECTION 4.7 PRESIDENT. The President may be Chief Executive
    Officer if so designated by the Board. If not, he shall have
    such powers and perform such duties as are prescribed by the
    Chief Executive Officer or by the Board, and, in the absence or
    disability of the Chief Executive Officer, he shall have the
    powers and perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer,
    except to the extent that the Board shall have otherwise
    provided.

SECTION 4.8 CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. The
    Chairman of the Executive Committee shall be a member of the
    Executive Committee. He shall preside at meetings of the
    Executive Committee and shall have such other powers and perform
    such other duties as are prescribed by the Board or by the Chief
    Executive Officer.

SECTION 4.9 VICE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD. Each Vice Chairman
    of the Board shall have such powers and perform such duties as
    are prescribed by the Chief Executive Officer or by the Board.

SECTION 4.10 SECRETARY. The Secretary shall attend all
    meetings and keep the minutes of all proceedings of the
    shareholders, the Board, the Executive Committee and any other
    committee unless it shall have chosen another secretary. He
    shall give notice of all such meetings and all other notices
    required by law or by these by-laws. He shall have custody of
    the seal of the corporation and shall have power to affix it to
    any instrument and to attest thereto. He shall have charge of
    the record of shareholders required by law, which may be kept by
    any transfer agent or agents under his direction. He shall
    maintain the records of directors and officers as required by
    law. He shall have charge of all documents and other records,
    except those for which some other officer or agent is properly
    accountable, and shall generally perform all duties appertaining
    to the office of secretary of a corporation. (B.C.L.
    Sections 605, 624, 718.)

SECTION 4.11 TREASURER. The Treasurer shall have the care
    and custody of all of the funds, securities and other valuables
    of the corporation, except to the extent they shall be entrusted
    to other officers, employees or agents by direction of the Chief
    Executive Officer or the Board. The Treasurer may hold the
    funds, securities and other valuables in his care in such vaults
    or safe deposit facilities, or may deposit them in and entrust
    them to such bank, trust companies and other depositories, all
    as he shall determine with the

9

written concurrence of the Chief Executive Officer or his
    delegate. The Treasurer shall account regularly to the
    Comptroller for all of his receipts, disbursements and
    deliveries of funds, securities and other valuables.

The Treasurer or his delegate, jointly with the Chief Executive
    Officer or his delegate, may designate in writing and certify to
    any bank, trust company, safe deposit company or other
    depository the persons (including themselves) who are
    authorized, singly or jointly as they shall specify in each
    case, to open accounts in the name of the corporation with
    banks, trust companies and other depositories, to deposit
    therein funds, instruments and securities belonging to the
    corporation, to draw checks or drafts on such accounts in
    amounts not exceeding the credit balances therein, to order the
    delivery of securities therefrom, to rent safe deposit boxes or
    vaults in the name of the corporation, to have access to such
    facility and to deposit therein and remove therefrom securities
    and other valuables. Any such designation and certification
    shall contain the regulations, terms and conditions applicable
    to such authority and may be amended or terminated at any time.

Such powers may also be granted to any other officer, official,
    employee or agent of the corporation by resolution of the Board
    or by power of attorney authorized by the Board.

SECTION 4.12 COMPTROLLER. The Comptroller shall be the
    chief accounting officer of the corporation and shall have
    control of all its books of account. He shall see that correct
    and complete books and records of account are kept as required
    by law, showing fully, in such form as he shall prescribe, all
    transactions of the corporation, and he shall require, keep and
    preserve all vouchers relating thereto for such period as may be
    necessary.

The Comptroller shall render periodically such financial
    statements and such other reports relating to the
    corporation s business as may be required by the Chief
    Executive Officer or the Board. He shall generally perform all
    duties appertaining to the office of comptroller of a
    corporation. (B.C.L. Section 624.)

SECTION 4.13 OFFICIALS AND AGENTS. The Chief Executive
    Officer or his delegate may appoint such officials and agents of
    the corporation as the conduct of its business may require and
    assign to them such titles, powers, duties and compensation as
    he shall see fit and may remove or suspend or modify such
    titles, powers, duties or compensation at any time with or
    without cause.

ARTICLE V 

SHARES

SECTION 5.1 CERTIFICATES. The shares of the corporation
    shall be represented by certificates or shall be uncertificated
    shares. Certificates shall be in such form, consistent with law,
    as prescribed by the Board, and signed and sealed as provided by
    law. (B.C.L. Section 508.)

SECTION 5.2 TRANSFER OF SHARES. Except as provided in the
    certificate of incorporation, upon surrender to the corporation
    or to its transfer agent of a certificate representing shares,
    duly endorsed or accompanied with proper evidence of succession,
    assignment or authority to transfer, it shall be the duty of the
    corporation to issue a new certificate to the person entitled
    thereto and to cancel the old certificate. The corporation shall
    be entitled to treat the holder of record of any shares as the
    holder in fact thereof, and, accordingly, shall not be bound to
    recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such
    shares on the part of any other person, whether or not the
    corporation shall have express or other notice thereof, except
    as may be required by law. (B.C.L. Section 508(d).)

SECTION 5.3 RECORD OF SHAREHOLDERS. The corporation shall
    keep at its principal office within the State of New York, or at
    the office of its transfer agent or registrar in the State of
    New York, a record in written form, or in any other form capable
    of being converted into written form within a reasonable time,
    which shall contain the names and addresses of all shareholders,
    the numbers and class of shares held by each, and the dates when
    they respectively became the owners of record thereof. (B.C.L.
    Section 624(a).)

SECTION 5.4 LOST OR DESTROYED CERTIFICATES. In case of the
    alleged loss, destruction or mutilation of a certificate or
    certificates representing shares, the Board may direct the
    issuance of a new

10

certificate or certificates in lieu thereof upon such terms and
    conditions in conformity with law as the Board may prescribe.
    (B.C.L. Section 508(e).)

SECTION 5.5 FIXING RECORD DATE. The Board or the Chief
    Executive Officer may fix, in advance, a date as the record date
    for the purpose of determining the shareholders entitled to
    notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or any
    adjournment thereof, or for the purpose of determining
    shareholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or the
    allotment of any rights, or for the purpose of any other action.
    Such date shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days
    before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty days prior
    to any other action. (B.C.L. Section 604.)

ARTICLE VI 

INDEMNIFICATION
    OF CORPORATION PERSONNEL

SECTION 6.1 DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES. The
    corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable
    law as the same exists or may hereafter be in effect, indemnify
    any person, made or threatened to be made, a party to, or who is
    otherwise involved in, any threatened, pending or completed
    action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal,
    administrative, legislative or investigative, by reason of the
    fact that such person, is or was or has agreed to become a
    director of the corporation, or is or was an officer or employee
    of the corporation, or serves or served or has agreed to serve
    any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust,
    employee benefit plan or other enterprise in any capacity at the
    request of the corporation, against judgments, fines, penalties,
    amounts paid in settlement and reasonable expenses, including
    attorneys  fees actually and necessarily incurred in
    connection with such action or proceeding, or any appeal
    therein; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that no indemnification shall be
    provided to any such person if a judgment or other final
    adjudication adverse to the director, officer or employee
    establishes that (i) his acts were committed in bad faith
    or were the result of active and deliberate dishonesty and, in
    either case, were material to the cause of action so
    adjudicated, or (ii) he personally gained in fact a
    financial profit or other advantage to which he was not legally
    entitled. Any action or proceeding by or in the right of the
    corporation to procure a judgment in its favor or by or in the
    right of any other corporation of any type or kind, domestic or
    foreign, or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee
    benefit plan or other enterprise, which any director, officer or
    employee serves or served or agreed to serve at the request of
    the corporation shall be included in the actions for which
    directors, officers and employees will be indemnified under the
    terms of this Section 6.1. Such indemnification shall
    include the right to be paid advances of any expenses incurred
    by such person in connection with such action, suit or
    proceeding, upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of
    such person to repay such amount consistent with the provisions
    of applicable law. (B.C.L. Sections 721, 722, 723(c).)

SECTION 6.2 OTHER INDEMNIFICATION. The corporation may
    indemnify any person to whom the corporation is permitted by
    applicable law or these by-laws to provide indemnification or
    the advancement of expenses, whether pursuant to rights granted
    pursuant to, or provided by, the New York Business Corporation
    Law or any other law or these by-laws or other rights created by
    (i) a resolution of shareholders, (ii) a resolution of
    directors, or (iii) an agreement providing for such
    indemnification, it being expressly intended that these by-laws
    authorize the creation of other rights in any such manner. The
    right to be indemnified and to the reimbursement or advancement
    of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its
    final disposition authorized by this Section 6.2, shall not
    be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or
    hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the
    certificate of incorporation, by-laws, agreement, vote of
    shareholders or disinterested directors or otherwise. (B.C.L.
    Sections 721, 723(c).)

SECTION 6.3 MISCELLANEOUS. The right to indemnification
    conferred by Section 6.1, and any indemnification extended
    under Section 6.2, (i) is a contract right pursuant to
    which the person entitled thereto may bring suit as if the
    provisions thereof were set forth in a separate written contract
    between the corporation and such person, (ii) is intended
    to be retroactive to events occurring prior to the adoption of
    this Article VI, to the fullest extent permitted by
    applicable law, and (iii) shall continue to exist after the
    rescission or restrictive modification thereof with respect to
    events occurring prior thereto. The benefits of Section 6.1
    shall extend to the heirs, executors, administrators and legal
    representatives of any person entitled to indemnification under
    this Article.

11

ARTICLE VII 

MISCELLANEOUS

SECTION 7.1 FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the corporation
    shall be the calendar year.

SECTION 7.2 VOTING OF SHARES OF OTHER CORPORATIONS.
    The Board may authorize any officer, agent or proxy to vote
    shares of any domestic or foreign corporation of any type or
    kind standing in the name of this corporation and to execute
    written consents respecting the same, but in the absence of such
    specific authorization the Chief Executive Officer of this
    corporation or his delegate may vote such shares and may execute
    proxies and written consents with relation thereto.

ARTICLE VIII 

AMENDMENTS

SECTION 8.1 GENERAL. Except as otherwise provided by law,
    these by-laws may be amended or repealed or new by-laws may be
    adopted by the Board of Directors, or by vote of the holders of
    the shares at the time entitled to vote in the election of any
    directors, except that the Board may not amend or repeal any
    by-law, or adopt any new by-law with respect to the subject
    matter of any by-law, which specifically states that it may be
    amended or repealed only by the shareholders. (B.C.L.
    Section 601.)

SECTION 8.2 AMENDMENT OF THIS ARTICLE. This
    Article VIII may be amended or repealed only by the
    shareholders entitled to vote hereon as provided in
    Section 8.1 above.

12

</EX-3.5>

<EX-10.8>
 3
 y87970exv10w8.htm
 EX-10.8

exv10w8 

EXHIBIT 10.8 

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
2007 INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 

MASTER AGREEMENT 

(As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2011) 

Nonqualified Stock Options, Restricted Stock Awards, and Restricted Stock Unit
Awards ( Awards ) are issued pursuant to the 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) of
American Express Company (the  Company ) at the discretion and subject to the administration of the
Compensation and Benefits Committee, or its successor (the  Committee ) of the Board of Directors
of the Company (the  Board ). Awards issued on or after April 23, 2007 shall contain the general
terms set forth in the applicable provisions of this Master Agreement. The specific terms of
individual Awards will be contained in the Award Schedule(s) delivered to participants in the Plan
(the  Participants ). All Awards shall be subject to the Plan and any administrative guidelines or
interpretations by the Committee under the Plan, the Plan and any such guidelines or
interpretations being incorporated into this Master Agreement by reference and made a part hereof.
As used herein, the term  shares  refers to the common shares of the Company having a par value of
$.20 per share, or the shares of any other stock of any other class into which such shares may
thereafter be changed.

Section I 

MASTER AGREEMENT PROVISIONS RELATING TO 
A GRANT OF NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION 

1. Sections I, IV, and V of this Master Agreement, together with an Award Schedule referring
to Section I of this Master Agreement, shall contain the terms of a specific Nonqualified Stock
Option ( Option ) issued to a Participant. Each Award Schedule shall specify the number of shares
subject to the Option, the Option Date of Grant, the Option Exercise Date(s), the Option Exercise
Price, and any additional terms applicable to the Option. Such additional terms may address any
matter deemed appropriate by the Committee or its delegate and may include terms not contained in
this Master Agreement and/or may delete terms contained in this Master Agreement. A stock
appreciation right is included herein only if specifically approved by the Committee and reflected
in an Award Schedule.

2. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee and subject to the provisions of this Master
Agreement and the applicable provisions of the Plan, a Participant may exercise this Option as
follows:

(a) No part of this Option may be exercised before the first Option Exercise Date
listed in the Award Schedule or after the expiration of ten years from the Date of Grant set
forth in the Award Schedule;

(b) At any time or times on or after the first Option Exercise Date listed in the Award
Schedule, a Participant may exercise this Option as to any number of shares which, when
added to the number of shares as to which a Participant has theretofore exercised this
Option, if any, will not exceed 25% of the total number of shares covered hereby;

(c) At any time or times on or after the second Option Exercise Date listed in the
Award Schedule, a Participant may exercise this Option as to any number of shares which,
when added to the number of shares as to which a Participant has theretofore exercised this
Option, if any, will not exceed 50% of the total number of shares covered hereby;

(d) At any time or times on or after the third Option Exercise Date listed in the Award
Schedule, a Participant may exercise this Option as to any number of shares which, when
added to the number of shares as to which a Participant has theretofore exercised this
Option, if any, will not exceed 75% of the total number of shares covered hereby; and

(e) At any time or times on or after the fourth Option Exercise Date listed in the
Award Schedule and thereafter through the expiration date of this Option, a Participant may
exercise this Option as to any number of shares which, when added to the number of shares as
to which the Participant has theretofore exercised this Option, if any, will not exceed the
total number of shares covered hereby.

This Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a share.

3. A Participant may not exercise this Option and, if applicable, any stock appreciation right
included herein, unless all of the following conditions are met:

(a) Legal counsel for the Company must be satisfied at the time of exercise that the
issuance of shares upon exercise will be in compliance with the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and applicable United States federal, state, local, and foreign laws;

(b) The Participant must pay at the time of exercise the full purchase price for the
shares being acquired hereunder, by (i) paying in cash in United States dollars (which may
be in the form of a check), (ii) tendering shares owned by the Participant which have a fair
market value equal to the full purchase price for the shares being acquired, such fair
market value to be determined in such reasonable manner as may be provided from time to time
by the Committee or as may be required in order to comply with the requirements of any
applicable laws or regulations, (iii) if permitted by the Committee, by authorizing a third
party to sell, on behalf of the Participant, the appropriate number of shares otherwise
issuable to the Participant upon the exercise of this Option and to remit to the Company a
sufficient portion of the sale proceeds to pay the entire exercise price and any tax
withholding resulting from such exercise, or (iv) tendering a combination of the forms of
payment provided for in this Paragraph 3(b); and

(c) The Participant must, at all times during the period beginning with the Date of
Grant of this Option and ending on the date of such exercise, have been
employed

2 

by the Company or an Affiliate (as defined in the Plan) or have been engaged
in a period of Related Employment (as defined in the Plan). However, if the Participant
ceases to be so employed or terminates a period of Related Employment by reason of the
Participant s disability or Retirement (as such terms are defined in the Plan and
interpreted and administered by the Committee) while holding this Option which has not
expired and has not been fully exercised, the Participant may, at any time within five years
of the date of the onset of such disability (but in no event after the expiration of this
Option under Paragraph 2(a) above with respect to ten years from the Date of Grant) or in
the case of Retirement until the expiration of the Option under Paragraph 2(a) above,
exercise this Option with respect to the number of shares, after giving full effect to the
gradual vesting provisions of Paragraph 2 above, as to which the Participant could have
exercised this Option on the date of the onset of such disability or Retirement, or with
respect to such greater number of shares as determined by the Committee in its sole
discretion, and any remaining portion of this Option shall be canceled by the Company. In
the event the Participant s employment by the Company and its Affiliates or Related
Employment terminates for reasons other than disability or Retirement as described in this
Paragraph 3(c) or death as described in Paragraph 4 below, this Option shall be canceled by
the Company; provided, however, if within two years following a Change in Control (as
defined in Section IV of this Master Agreement), a Participant is terminated under
circumstances that would entitle the Participant to severance under an applicable U.S.
severance plan (other than Constructive Termination, as defined in the applicable plan), the
Participant may, at any time within 90 days following such termination (but in no event
after the expiration of this Option under Paragraph 2(a) above with respect to ten years
from the Date of Grant), exercise this Option with respect to the number of shares as to
which the Participant could have exercised this Option on the date of such termination. For
any other Participant not covered by a U.S. severance plan, the 90-day extension period
shall apply if the Participant is terminated within two years following a Change in Control
and the Participant would have been entitled to severance under the applicable U.S.
severance plan had the Participant been a U.S. employee.

4. Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, a Participant may not assign, transfer,
pledge, hypothecate, or otherwise dispose of this Option (and any stock appreciation right included
herein), except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and this Option is exercisable
during the Participant s lifetime only by the Participant. If the Participant or anyone claiming
under or through the Participant attempts to violate this Paragraph 4, such attempted violation
shall be null and void and without effect, and the Company s obligation to make any further
payments (stock or cash) hereunder shall terminate. If at the time of the Participant s death this
Option has not been fully exercised, the Participant s estate or any person who acquires the right
to exercise this Option by bequest or inheritance or by reason of the Participant s death may, at
any time within five years after the date of the Participant s death (but in no event after the
expiration of this Option under Paragraph 2 (a) above with respect to ten years from the Date of
Grant or the time period described in Paragraph 3(c) above with respect to disability), exercise
this Option with respect to the number of shares, after giving full effect to the gradual vesting
provisions of Paragraph 2 above, as to which the Participant could have exercised this Option at
the time of the Participant s death, or with respect to such greater number of shares as determined
by the Committee in its sole discretion. The applicable requirements of Paragraph 3 above must be
satisfied at the time of such exercise.

3 

5. In the event that the Company or any of its Affiliates is a participant in a corporate
merger, consolidation, or other similar transaction, neither the Company nor such Affiliate shall
be obligated to cause any other participant in such transaction to assume this Option or to
substitute a new option for this Option.

6. (a) If approved by the Committee and subject to the conditions specified in Paragraph 6(b)
below, within such time or times as this Option shall be exercisable in whole or in part and to the
extent that it shall then be exercisable in accordance with Paragraph 2 above, the Participant (or
any person acting under Paragraph 4 above) may surrender unexercised this Option or any portion
thereof which is then exercisable to the Company and receive from the Company in exchange therefor
that number of shares having an aggregate value equal to 100% of the excess of the value of one
share over the Option Exercise Price per share heretofore specified times the lesser of (i) the
number of shares as to which this Option then is exercisable or (ii) the number of shares as to
which this Option is surrendered to the Company. This right to surrender unexercised this Option
or any portion thereof which is then exercisable is referred to herein as a  stock appreciation
right.  No fractional shares shall be delivered, but in lieu thereof a cash adjustment shall be
made.

(b) If granted by the Committee, the stock appreciation right may be exercised only if,
and to the extent that,

(i) this Option is at the time exercisable, and

(ii) on the date of exercise (1) this Option will, in accordance with Paragraph
2(a) above, expire within 30 days, or (2) the Participant has ceased to be an
employee of the Company or an Affiliate thereof or terminated a period of Related
Employment by reason of the Participant s disability or Retirement (as defined in
the Plan), or (3) the Participant has died.

Notwithstanding Paragraph 6(b)(ii) above, but subject to the conditions of Paragraph 6(b)(i)
above, (1) the ability to exercise a stock appreciation right may be further limited to the
extent determined by the Committee as necessary or desirable to comply with applicable
provisions of United States federal, state, local, or foreign law or regulation, and (2) if
the Participant is on the date of exercise an executive officer of the Company as that term
is defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules thereunder (an
 Insider ), the stock appreciation right may be exercised only with respect to a maximum of
50% of the shares subject to this Option granted hereunder, unless otherwise determined by
the Committee.

(c) The Committee may elect from time to time in its sole discretion to settle the
obligation arising out of the exercise of the stock appreciation right, by the payment of
cash equal to the aggregate value of the shares it otherwise would be obligated to deliver
or partly by the payment of cash and partly by the delivery of shares.

(d) For all purposes under this Paragraph 6, the value of a share shall be the fair
market value thereof, as determined by the Committee, on the last business day preceding the
date of the election to exercise the stock appreciation right, provided that if notice of
such election is received by the Committee more than three business days after

4 

the date of such election (as such date of election is stated in the notice of
election), the Committee may, but need not, determine the value of a share as of the day
preceding the date on which the notice of election is received.

7. It shall be a condition to the obligation of the Company to furnish shares upon exercise of
this Option or settlement of a stock appreciation right by delivery of shares and/or cash (a) that
the Participant (or any person acting under Paragraph 4 above) pay to the Company or its designee,
upon its demand, in accordance with Paragraph 17(f) of the Plan, such amount as may be demanded for
the purpose of satisfying its obligation or the obligation of any of its Affiliates or other person
to withhold United States federal, state, local, or foreign income, employment or other taxes
incurred by reason of the exercise of this Option or the settlement of the stock appreciation right
or the transfer of shares thereupon, (b) whether the settlement of the stock appreciation right is
to be made by delivery of shares or by the payment of cash, that the Participant (or any person
acting under Paragraph 4 above) execute such forms as the Committee shall prescribe for the purpose
of evidencing the surrender of this Option in whole or in part, as the case may be, and (c) that
the Participant (or any person acting under Paragraph 4 above) provide the Company with any forms,
documents, or other information reasonably required by the Company in connection with the grant.
The Company shall have the right to deduct or cause to be deducted from any payment made in
settlement of a stock appreciation right any United States federal, state, local, or foreign
income, employment or other taxes that it determines are required by law to be withheld with
respect to such payment. If the amount requested for the purpose of satisfying the withholding
obligation is not paid, the Company may refuse to furnish shares upon exercise of this Option or
shares and/or cash upon settlement of the stock appreciation right.

Section II 

MASTER AGREEMENT PROVISIONS RELATING TO 
AWARDS OF RESTRICTED STOCK 

1. Sections II, IV, and V of this Master Agreement, together with an Award Schedule referring
to Section II of this Master Agreement, shall contain the terms of a specific Restricted Stock
Award ( RSA ) issued to a Participant. Each Award Schedule shall specify the number of shares
awarded, the Award Date, the Expiration Date, and any additional terms applicable to the Award.
Such additional terms may address any matter deemed appropriate by the Committee or its delegate
and may include terms not contained in this Master Agreement and/or may delete terms contained in
this Master Agreement.

2. An RSA consists of the number of shares specified in an Award Schedule and is subject to
the provisions of the Plan. In addition, the following terms, conditions and restrictions apply to
RSAs issued under the Plan:

(a) Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, such shares cannot be sold,
assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated, or otherwise disposed of (except that
Participants may designate a beneficiary as provided herein) on or before the Expiration
Date and prior to the subsequent issuance to a Participant (or, in the event of a
Participant s death, the Participant s designated beneficiary) of a certificate or an
uncertificated book entry position for such shares free of any legend or other transfer

5 

restriction relating to the terms, conditions, and restrictions provided for in the
Award Schedule or this Master Agreement. If a Participant or anyone claiming under or
through such Participant attempts to violate this Paragraph 2(a), such attempted violation
shall be null and void and without effect, and the Company s obligation to make any further
payments or deliveries (in stock or cash) hereunder shall terminate.

(b) An RSA shall be evidenced by a share certificate or an uncertificated book entry
position maintained by the Company s transfer agent and registrar.

(c) If (i) a Participant s continuous employment with the Company and its Affiliates
(as defined in the Plan) shall terminate for any reason on or before the Expiration Date,
except for a period of Related Employment (as defined in the Plan), and except as provided
in Paragraph 2(d) below or (ii) within the period following the Expiration Date as
determined by the Committee, a Participant (or such Participant s designated beneficiary)
has not paid to the Company or such Affiliate or other person an amount equal to any United
States federal, state, local, or foreign income, employment or other taxes which the Company
determines is required to be withheld in respect of such shares, or fails to provide such
information as is described in Paragraph 4 below, then, unless the Committee determines
otherwise, the Participant s RSA or portion thereof shall be automatically terminated,
cancelled, and rendered null and void as of the Expiration Date without any action on the
part of the Company, and the Company shall be deemed to have exercised its repurchase option
without the requirement of any payment, and shall be entitled to the return from such
Participant (or the Participant s designated beneficiary or the Secretary of the Company) of
any share certificate(s) issued in respect of the Award or the cancellation of any book
entry memo position maintained by the Company s transfer agent and registrar with respect to
a Participant s RSA.

(d) On or before the Expiration Date, the Committee shall have the authority, in its
sole discretion, to determine whether and to what extent, the termination provisions of
Paragraph 2(c) shall cease to be effective with respect to a Participant s Award in the
following situations:

(i) a Participant shall die or have a termination of employment or Related
Employment by reason of disability or Retirement (as such terms are defined in the
Plan and interpreted and administered by the Committee); or

(ii) in such circumstances as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall deem
appropriate if, since the Award Date, a Participant has been in the continuous
employment of the Company or an Affiliate or has undertaken Related Employment.

(e) The share certificate, if any, issued in respect of a RSA shall be held in escrow
by the Secretary of the Company during the period up to and including the date determined by
the Committee pursuant to Paragraph 2(c) above, unless otherwise determined by the
Committee.

3. In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of the Company by reason of any stock
split, stock dividend, split-up, split-off, spin-off, recapitalization, merger,

6 

consolidation, rights offering, reorganization, combination, subdivision or exchange of shares,
sale by the Company of all or part of its assets, distribution to shareholders other than a normal
cash dividend, or other extraordinary or unusual event, or in the event a Participant (or the
Participant s designated beneficiary) receives any shares, securities, or other property in respect
of the shares which have been awarded to a Participant (including, but not limited to, by way of a
dividend or other distribution on such shares), any such shares, securities, or other property
received by a Participant (or a Participant s designated beneficiary) in respect of the shares
awarded to such Participant shall, other than upon a Change In Control as defined in Section IV of
this Master Agreement, be subject to the Company s right to receive or cancel such shares,
securities, or other property from such Participant (or such Participant s designated beneficiary),
as provided in Paragraph 2(c) above and the other terms, conditions, and restrictions specified
herein to the extent that, and in such manner as, the Committee shall determine. Any such
determination by the Committee under this Paragraph 3 shall be final, binding, and conclusive.

4. If the Company, in its sole discretion, shall determine that the Company or an Affiliate or
other person has incurred or will incur any obligation to withhold any United States federal,
state, local, or foreign income, employment, or other taxes by reason of making of the Award to a
Participant, the transfer of shares to a Participant (or the Participant s designated beneficiary)
pursuant thereto or the lapse or release of the termination provisions contained in Paragraph 2(c)
above with respect to a Participant s Award or any other restrictions upon such shares, such
Participant (or such Participant s designated beneficiary) will, promptly upon demand therefor by
the Company, pay to the Company or such Affiliate or other person any amount demanded by it for the
purpose of satisfying such liability. If the amount so demanded is not promptly paid or if such
Participant (or such Participant s designated beneficiary) shall fail to promptly provide the
Company with any and all forms, documents, or other information reasonably required by the Company
in connection with the Award, the Company or its designee may refuse to permit the transfer of such
shares and may, without further consent by or notice to such Participant (or such Participant s
designated beneficiary), cancel the Award and the shares otherwise issuable under the Award.

Section III 

MASTER AGREEMENT PROVISIONS RELATING TO 
AWARDS OF A RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT 

1. Sections III, IV, and V of this Master Agreement, together with an Award Schedule referring
to Section III of this Master Agreement, shall contain the terms of a specific Restricted Stock
Unit ( RSU ) issued to a Participant. Each Award Schedule shall specify the number of shares to be
awarded, the RSU Date, the Expiration Date, and any additional terms applicable to the Award. Such
additional terms may address any matter deemed appropriate by the Committee or its delegate and may
include terms not contained in this Master Agreement and/or may delete terms contained in this
Master Agreement.

2. Subject to the provisions of the Plan and the following terms, conditions and restrictions
herein set forth, the Company will issue to a Participant a certificate for the number of shares
specified in an Award Schedule as promptly as practicable following January 1 of the calendar year
immediately following the calendar year that includes the last day of the period of

7 

four years from the RSU Date (the  Restricted Period ), but in no event later than 90 days
thereafter:

(a) Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, rights under this RSU may not be
sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated, or otherwise disposed of, except by will
or the laws of descent and distribution, on or before the last day of the Restricted Period
and prior to the subsequent issuance to a Participant (or, in the event of a Participant s
death, the Participant s designated beneficiary) of a certificate for such shares free of
any legend or other transfer restriction relating to the terms, conditions, and restrictions
provided for in this Master Agreement. If a Participant or anyone claiming under or through
a Participant attempts to violate this Paragraph 2(a), such attempted violation shall be
null and void and without effect, and the Company s obligations hereunder shall terminate.

(b) If (i) a Participant s continuous employment with the Company and its Affiliates
(as defined in the Plan) shall terminate for any reason on or before the last day of the
Restricted Period, except for a period of Related Employment (as defined in the Plan), and
except as provided in Paragraph 2(c) below, or (ii) within the period following the last day
of the Restricted Period as determined by the Committee, a Participant (or such
Participant s designated beneficiary) has not paid to the Company or such Affiliate or other
person an amount equal to any United States federal, state, local, or foreign income,
employment, or other taxes which the Company determines is required to be withheld in
respect of such shares, or fails to provide such information as is described in Paragraph 4
below, then, unless the Committee determines otherwise, this RSU or portion thereof shall be
automatically terminated, cancelled, and rendered null and void as of the last day of the
Restricted Period without any action on the part of the Company.

(c) If a Participant shall, on or before the last day of the Restricted Period, die or
have a termination of employment or Related Employment by reason of disability or Retirement
(as such terms are defined in the Plan and interpreted and administered by the Committee),
or by reason of such other circumstances as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall
deem appropriate, after a Participant has been, since the RSU Date, in the continuous
employment of the Company or an Affiliate or have undertaken Related Employment, the
Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine whether and to what extent, if any, the
Company s right as specified in Paragraph 2(b) above (and in any and all other terms,
conditions, and restrictions imposed hereby) shall lapse and cease to be effective. The
Company s right specified in Paragraph 2(b) above shall be exercisable at such time as to
the remaining shares, if any.

(d) From time to time during the Restricted Period, the Company shall pay to a
Participant an amount of cash equal to the regular quarterly cash dividend paid by the
Company on a number of shares equal to the number of shares remaining to be issued to a
Participant hereunder less any applicable United States federal, state, local, or foreign
income, employment, or other taxes that the Company determines are required to be withheld
therefrom. Such payment shall be made as soon as practicable following the applicable
dividend payment date, but in no event later than 60 days thereafter. The Company s
obligation to make such payment shall cease with respect to any shares at

8 

such time as the Company s right becomes exercisable with respect thereto pursuant to
Paragraph 2(b) or 2(c) above.

3. If the Company, in its sole discretion, shall determine that the Company or an Affiliate or
other person has incurred or will incur any obligation to withhold any United States federal,
state, local, or foreign income, employment or other taxes by reason of the issuance or operation
of this RSU, a Participant (or, in the event of a Participant s death, the legal representatives of
a Participant s estate) will, promptly upon demand therefor by the Company, pay to the Company or
such Affiliate or other person, in accordance with Paragraph 17(f) of the Plan, any amount demanded
by it for the purpose of satisfying such obligation. If the amount so demanded is not promptly
paid or if a Participant (or, in the event of a Participant s death, the legal representatives of a
Participant s estate) shall fail to promptly provide the Company with any and all forms, documents,
or other information reasonably required by the Company in connection with this RSU, the Company or
its designee may refuse to permit the transfer of any shares and the distribution of any proceeds
and may, without further consent by or notice to a Participant (or, in the event of a Participant s
death, the legal representatives of a Participant s estate) cancel its agreement to issue to a
Participant any shares and cancel any shares otherwise issuable hereunder.

Section IV 

MASTER AGREEMENT COMMON PROVISIONS RELATING TO 
MORE THAN ONE FORM OF AWARD 

1. Notwithstanding anything in this Master Agreement to the contrary (but subject to those
provisions in Paragraph 3 or 4 below which could reduce payments hereunder as a result of Section
280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code )), upon a Change in Control (as
applicable to a particular award), the award holder shall immediately be:

(a) with respect to any Option issued pursuant to the Option provisions of this Master
Agreement, 100% vested in the total number of shares covered thereby such that they shall be
fully exercisable;

(b) with respect to any RSA issued pursuant to the RSA provisions of this Master
Agreement, 100% vested in the total number of shares covered thereby such that they shall no
longer be subject to any transfer restrictions imposed by this Master Agreement; and

(c) with respect to any RSU issued pursuant to the RSU provisions of this Master
Agreement, entitled to receive the total number of shares covered thereby such that they
shall no longer be subject to any restrictions on issuance imposed by this Master Agreement,
and:

(1) if the Change in Control qualifies as a  change in ownership,  a  change in
effective control,  or a  change in ownership of a substantial portion of the
assets  of the Company (each as defined by Section 409A of the Code and the Treasury
Regulations promulgated and other official guidance issued thereunder (collectively,
 Section 409A )), then the shares underlying such RSU

9 

shall be issued to the Participant immediately upon the occurrence of the
Change in Control, but in no event later than five days thereafter; or

(2) if the Change in Control does not so qualify, then the shares underlying
such RSU shall be issued to the Participant as soon as administratively practicable
following January 1 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year
that includes the last day of the original Restricted Period, but in no event later
than 90 days thereafter.

The Committee may not amend or delete this Section IV of this Master Agreement in a manner that is
detrimental to the award holder, without his written consent.

2. A  Change in Control  means the happening of any of the following:

(a) Any individual, entity, or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or
14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )) (a
 Person ) becomes the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under
the Exchange Act) of 25% or more of either (i) the then outstanding common shares of the
Company (the  Outstanding Company Common Shares ) or (ii) the combined voting power of the
then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election
of directors (the  Outstanding Company Voting Securities  provided, however, that such
beneficial ownership shall not constitute a Change in Control if it occurs as a result of
any of the following acquisitions of securities: (A) any acquisition directly from the
Company; (B) any acquisition by the Company or any corporation, partnership, trust, or other
entity controlled by the Company (a  Subsidiary  (C) any acquisition by any employee
benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary;
(D) any acquisition by an underwriter temporarily holding Company securities pursuant to an
offering of such securities; (E) any acquisition by an individual, entity, or group that is
permitted to, and actually does, report its beneficial ownership on Schedule 13-G (or any
successor schedule), provided that, if any such individual, entity or group subsequently
becomes required to or does report its beneficial ownership on Schedule 13D (or any
successor schedule), then, for purposes of this subsection, such individual, entity, or
group shall be deemed to have first acquired, on the first date on which such individual,
entity, or group becomes required to or does so report, beneficial ownership of all of the
Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially
owned by it on such date; or (F) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a
reorganization, merger, or consolidation if, following such reorganization, merger, or
consolidation, the conditions described in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of Paragraph 2(c)
are satisfied. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to
occur solely because any Person (the  Subject Person ) became the beneficial owner of 25% or
more of the Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities as a
result of the acquisition of Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting
Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of Outstanding Company Common Shares
or Outstanding Company Voting Securities, increases the proportional number of shares
beneficially owned by the Subject Person; provided, that if a Change in Control would be
deemed to have occurred (but for

10 

the operation of this sentence) as a result of the
acquisition of Outstanding Company
Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities by the Company, and after such share
acquisition by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the beneficial owner of any
additional Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities which
increases the percentage of the Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company
Voting Securities beneficially owned by the Subject Person, then a Change in Control shall
then be deemed to have occurred; or

(b) Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent
Board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided,
however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose
election, or nomination for election by the Company s shareholders, was approved by a vote
of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be
considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding,
for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result
of either an actual or threatened election contest or other actual or threatened
solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board,
including by reason of agreement intended to avoid or settle any such actual or threatened
contest or solicitation; or

(c) The consummation of a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange,
consolidation, or similar corporate transaction involving the Company or any of its direct
or indirect Subsidiaries (each a  Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following
such Business Combination, (i) the Outstanding Company Common Shares and the Outstanding
Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination, continue to
represent (either by remaining outstanding or being converted into voting securities of the
resulting or surviving entity or any parent thereof) more than 50% of
the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting
securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of
the corporation resulting from Business Combination (including, without limitation, a
corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially
all of the Company s assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries), (ii) no
Person (excluding the Company, any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company,
a Subsidiary or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any parent or
subsidiary thereof, and any Person beneficially owning, immediately prior to such Business
Combination, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the Outstanding Company Common Shares or
Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be) beneficially owns, directly or
indirectly, 25% or more of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the
corporation resulting from such Business Combination (or any parent thereof) or the combined
voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote
generally in the election of directors, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the
board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (or any
parent thereof) were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the
initial agreement or action of the Board providing for such Business Combination; or

11 

(d) The consummation of the sale, lease, exchange, or other disposition of all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company, unless such assets have been sold, leased,
exchanged, or disposed of to a corporation with respect to which following such
sale, lease, exchange, or other disposition (i) more than 50% of, respectively, the
then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the combined voting power of
the then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation (or any parent thereof) entitled
to vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially owned, directly or
indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the
beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Shares and Outstanding
Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such sale, lease, exchange, or other
disposition in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to
such sale, lease, exchange, or other disposition of such Outstanding Company Common Shares
and Outstanding Company Voting Shares, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (excluding the
Company and any employee benefit plan (or related trust)) of the Company or a Subsidiary or
of such corporation or a subsidiary thereof and any Person beneficially owning, immediately
prior to such sale, lease, exchange, or other disposition, directly or indirectly, 25% or
more of the Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as
the case may be) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of respectively, the
then-outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation (or any parent thereof) and the
combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation (or any
parent thereof) entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, and (iii) at least
a majority of the members of the board of directors of such corporation (or any parent
thereof) were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial
agreement or action of the Board providing for such sale, lease, exchange, or other
disposition of assets of the Company; or

(e) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or
dissolution of the Company.

3. This Paragraph 3 shall apply in the event of a Change in Control.

(a) In the event that any payment or benefit received or to be received by a
Participant hereunder in connection with a Change in Control or termination of such
Participant s employment (hereinafter referred to collectively as the  Payments ), will be
subject to the excise tax referred to in Section 4999 of the Code (the  Excise Tax ), then
the Payments shall be reduced to the extent necessary so that no portion of the Payments is
subject to the Excise Tax but only if (A) the net amount of all Total Payments (as
hereinafter defined), as so reduced (and after subtracting the net amount of federal, state,
and local income and employment taxes on such reduced Total Payments), is greater than or
equal to (B) the net amount of such Total Payments without any such reduction (but after
subtracting the net amount of federal, state, and local income and employment taxes on such
Total Payments and the amount of Excise Tax to which the Participant would be subject in
respect of such unreduced Total Payments); provided, however, that the Participant may elect
in writing to have other components of his or her Total Payments reduced prior to any
reduction in the Payments hereunder.

12 

(b) For purposes of determining whether the Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax,
the amount of such Excise Tax and whether any Payments are to be reduced hereunder: (i) all
payments and benefits received or to be received by the Participant in connection with such
Change in Control or the termination of such Participant s
employment, whether pursuant to the terms of this Master Agreement or any other plan,
arrangement, or agreement with the Company, any Person (as such term is defined in Paragraph
2(a) above) whose actions result in such Change in Control or any Person affiliated with the
Company or such Person (collectively, the  Total Payments ), shall be treated as  parachute
payments  (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code) unless, in the opinion of
the accounting firm which was, immediately prior to the Change in Control, the Company s
independent auditor, or if that firm refuses to serve, by another qualified firm, whether or
not serving as independent auditors, designated by the Committee (the  Firm ), such payments
or benefits (in whole or in part) do not constitute parachute payments, including by reason
of Section 280G(b)(2)(A) or Section 280G(b)(4)(A) of the Code; (ii) no portion of the Total
Payments the receipt or enjoyment of which the Participant shall have waived at such time
and in such manner as not to constitute a  payment  within the meaning of Section 280G(b) of
the Code shall be taken into account; (iii) all  excess parachute payments  within the
meaning of Section 280G(b)(l) of the Code shall be treated as subject to the Excise Tax
unless, in the opinion of the Firm, such excess parachute payments (in whole or in part)
represent reasonable compensation for services actually rendered (within the meaning of
Section 280G(b)(4)(B) of the Code) in excess of the Base Amount (within the meaning of
Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code) allocable to such reasonable compensation, or are otherwise
not subject to the Excise Tax; and (iv) the value of any noncash benefits or any deferred
payment or benefit shall be determined by the Firm in accordance with the principles of
Sections 280G(d)(3) and (4) of the Code and regulations or other guidance thereunder. For
purposes of determining whether any Payments in respect of a Participant shall be reduced, a
Participant shall be deemed to pay federal income tax at the highest marginal rate of
federal income taxation (and state and local income taxes at the highest marginal rate of
taxation in the state and locality of such Participant s residence, net of the maximum
reduction in federal income taxes which could be obtained from deduction of such state and
local taxes) in the calendar year in which the Payments are made. The Firm will be paid
reasonable compensation by the Company for its services.

(c) As soon as practicable following a Change in Control, but in no event later than 30
days thereafter, the Company shall provide to each Participant with respect to whom it is
proposed that Payments be reduced, a written statement setting forth the manner in which the
Total Payments in respect of such Participant were calculated and the basis for such
calculations, including, without limitation, any opinions or other advice the Company has
received from the Firm or other advisors or consultants (and any such opinions or advice
which are in writing shall be attached to the statement).

4. The terms of any Option, RSA, or RSU (including terms under this Master Agreement or any
Award Schedule) may be amended from time to time by the Committee in its sole discretion in any
manner that it deems appropriate (including, but not limited to, acceleration of the date of
payments thereunder); provided, however, that no such amendment shall adversely affect in a
material manner any right of a Participant under such Option, RSA, or RSU without

13 

the written
consent of such Participant; provided, however, that the Committee shall not have the authority to
amend any Option held by any executive officer of the Company as defined in Rule 3(b)(7) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, so that the amount of compensation an executive
officer could receive is not based solely on an increase in the value of shares, or to otherwise
amend any Award issued to such executive officer if the
amendment would cause compensation payable thereunder to be nondeductible under Section 162(m)
of the Code (or any successor provision) or regulations thereunder assuming such executive officer
is a covered employee for purposes of such Section. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee
shall not amend the terms of any Option, RSA, or RSU (including terms under this Master Agreement
or any Award Schedule), to the extent such amendment would cause a violation of Section 409A.

5. If and to the extent permitted by the Committee, and subject to the provisions of the Plan,
a Participant may, by completing the form provided by the Corporate Secretary for such purpose and
returning it to the Corporate Secretary s Office in New York City, name a beneficiary or
beneficiaries to receive any payment or exercise any rights to which such Participant may become
entitled under an Award in the event of such Participant s death. To the extent permitted by the
Corporate Secretary, a Participant may change his or her designated beneficiary or beneficiaries
from time to time by submitting a new form to the Corporate Secretary s Office in New York City, to
the extent permitted by law (for example, unless such Participant has made a prior irrevocable
designation). If a Participant does not designate a beneficiary, or if no designated beneficiary
is living on the date any amount becomes payable under an Award, such payment will be made to the
legal representatives of such Participant s estate, which will be deemed to be the Participant s
designated beneficiary under the Award.

6. If the Company, in its sole discretion, shall determine that the listing upon any
securities exchange or registration or qualification under any United States federal, state, local,
or foreign law of any shares to be delivered pursuant to an Award is necessary or desirable,
delivery of such shares shall not be made in shares until such listing, registration, or
qualification shall have been completed. Until a certificate for some or all of the shares subject
to an RSU is issued to a Participant, a Participant shall have no rights as a shareholder of the
Company and, in particular, shall not be entitled to vote such shares or to receive any dividend or
other distribution paid in respect thereof.

7. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Committee, in its sole
discretion, may approve and the Company may issue Options, RSAs, or RSUs that are not governed by
the provisions contained in this Master Agreement.

8. Any action taken or decision made by the Company, the Board, or the Committee or its
delegates arising out of or in connection with the construction, administration, interpretation, or
effect of any provision of the Plan or this Master Agreement shall lie within its sole and absolute
discretion, as the case may be, and shall be final, conclusive, and binding on the Participant and
all persons claiming under or through the Participant. By receipt of such Awards or other benefit
under the Plan, the Participant and each person claiming under or through the Participant shall be
conclusively deemed to have indicated acceptance and ratification of, and consent to, any action
taken under the Plan or this Master Agreement, by the Company, the Board or the Committee or its
delegates.

14 

9. The validity, construction, interpretation, administration, and effect of the Plan and its
rules and regulations, and rights relating to the Plan, and to any Award issued under this Master
Agreement, shall be governed by the substantive laws, but not the choice of law rules, of the State
of New York, in the United States of America.

10. The Committee may rescind, without further notice to the Participant, any Award issued to
the Participant under the Plan in duplicate, or in error, as determined in the sole discretion of
the Committee.

11. The Options and RSAs subject to this Master Agreement are intended to be exempt from
Section 409A and the RSUs subject to this Master Agreement are intended to comply with Section
409A, and the Plan, this Master Agreement, and the applicable Award Schedules shall be administered
and interpreted consistent with such intent and the American Express Section 409A Compliance
Policy, as amended from time to time, and any successor policy thereto (the  409A Policy ).

Section V 

MASTER AGREEMENT 
DETRIMENTAL CONDUCT PROVISIONS 

1.  Applicability . Unless the Committee expressly determines otherwise, the provisions
of this Section V of this Master Agreement shall apply to all Awards issued under the Plan.

2.  Detrimental Conduct . If a current or former employee of, or other individual that
provides or has provided services for the Company (the  Employee ) engages in Detrimental Conduct,
Awards previously issued to such Employee may be canceled, rescinded, or otherwise restricted and
the Company can recover any payments received by, and stock delivered to, the Employee in
accordance with the terms of Paragraph 3. For purposes of this Section V,  Detrimental Conduct 
shall mean the conduct described in Paragraphs 2(a) through 2(g).

(a)  Noncompete . For a one-year period after the last day of active employment if the
Employee is a Band 70 or above employee, or for a six-month period after the last day of
active employment if the Employee is a Band 50 or 60 employee, and during the Employee s
employment with the Company, the Employee shall not be employed by, provide advice to, or
act as a consultant for any Competitor. The Company has defined Competitor for certain
lines of business, departments or job functions by establishing a specific standard and/or
by name as set forth in the Company s Competitor List(s). An Employee s personal list of
competitors will be the sum of:

(1) either (i) all competitors derived from the column titled Standard on the
Competitor List for the lines of business and departments (as listed on the
Competitor List under the Line of Business column) that the Employee provided
services to or managed during the two-year period preceding the date the Employee s
active employment with the Company terminates, or (ii) if the job function the
Employee is employed in at the time his or her active employment with the Company
terminates is listed on the Competitor List under the Line of

15 

Business column, the
competitors cited for that job function under the Standard column of the Competitor
List; and

(2) the Entities (as that term is defined in Paragraph 8) listed on the
Competitor List under the column titled Business Unit-Wide Competitors for the
business units, i.e., AEB or TRS, the Employee provided services to or managed
during the two-year period preceding the date his or her active employment with the
Company terminates. If any line(s) of business the Employee provided services to or
managed during the two-year period preceding the date his or her active employment
with the Company terminates is not listed on the Competitor List then, with respect
to such line(s) of business, the Employee shall not be employed by, provide advice
to, or act as a consultant for (i) an Entity s line of business that competes with
those line(s) of business and (ii) the Entities listed on the Competitor List under
the column titled Business Unit-Wide Competitors for the business units the Employee
provided services to or managed during the two-year period preceding the date the
Employee s active employment with the Company terminates. Except for Business
Unit-Wide Competitors, the prohibition against being employed by, providing advice
to, or acting as a consultant for a Competitor is limited to the line(s) of business
of the Competitor that compete with the line(s) of business of the Company that the
Employee provided services to or managed. With respect to Business Unit-Wide
Competitors, the Employee agrees not to be employed by, provide advice to, or act as
a consultant for such Entities in any line of business because these Entities
compete with several of the Company s lines of business. The Company can revise the
Competitor List at its discretion at any time and from time to time and as revised
will become part of this Section  a copy of the current Competitor List will be
available through the Corporate Secretary s Office. Notwithstanding anything in
this Section V to the contrary, the Company shall not make any addition to the
Competitor List for a period of two years following the date of a Change in Control
(as defined in Section IV of this Plan Master Agreement, and as amended from time to
time, or any successor thereto).

(b)  Nondenigration . For a one-year period after an Employee s last day of active
employment (the  Restricted Period ) and during his or her employment with the Company, an
Employee or anyone acting at his or her direction may not denigrate the Company or the
Company s employees to the media or financial analysts. During the Restricted Period an
Employee may not (i) provide information considered proprietary by the Company to the media
or financial analysts or (ii) discuss the Company with the media or financial analysts,
without the explicit written permission of the Executive Vice President of Corporate Affairs
and Communications. This Paragraph shall not be applicable to any truthful statement
required by any legal proceeding.

(c)  Nonsolicitation of Employees . During the Restricted Period, an Employee may not
employ or solicit for employment any employee of the Company. In addition, during the
Restricted Period an Employee may not advise or recommend to any other person that he or she
employ or solicit for employment, any person employed by the Company for the purpose of
employing that person at an Entity at which the Employee is

16 

or intends to be (i) employed,
(ii) a member of the Board of Directors, or (iii) providing consulting services.

(d)  Nonsolicitation of Customers . During the Restricted Period, an Employee may not
directly or indirectly solicit or enter into any arrangement with any Entity which is, at
the time of such solicitation, a significant customer of the Company for the purpose
of engaging in any business transactions of the nature performed or contemplated by the
Company. This Paragraph shall apply only to customers whom the Employee personally serviced
while employed by the Company or customers the Employee acquired material information about
while employed by the Company.

(e)  Misconduct . During his or her employment with the Company, an Employee may not
engage in any conduct that results in termination of his or her employment for Misconduct.
For purposes of this Section V,  Misconduct  is (i) material violation of the American
Express Company Code of Conduct, (ii) criminal activity, (iii) gross insubordination, or
(iv) gross negligence in the performance of duties.

(f)  Confidential Information . During the Restricted Period and during his or her
employment with the Company, an Employee may not misappropriate or improperly disclose
confidential information or trade secrets of the Company and its businesses, including but
not limited to information about marketing or business plans, possible acquisitions or
divestitures, potential new products or markets, and other data not available to the public.

(g)  Other Detrimental Conduct . During the Restricted Period, an Employee may not take
any actions that the Company reasonably deems detrimental to its interests. To the extent
practicable, the Company will request an Employee to cease and desist or rectify the conduct
prior to seeking any legal remedies under this Paragraph, and will only seek legal remedies
if the Employee does not comply with such request. This Paragraph shall not be applied to
conduct that is otherwise permitted by Paragraphs 2(a) through 2(f). For example, if an
Employee leaves the Company s employment to work for an Entity that is not a Competitor
under Paragraph 2(a), the Company will not claim that employment with that Entity violates
Paragraph 2(g). Notwithstanding anything in this Section V to the contrary, this Paragraph
2(g) shall not be applicable to an Employee from and after his or her last day of active
employment, if his or her active employment terminates for any reason (other than for
Misconduct, as defined in Paragraph 2(e) above) within two years following a Change in
Control (as such term is defined in Section IV of this Master Agreement, as amended from
time to time, or any successor thereto).

3.  Remedies .

(a)  Repayment of Financial Gain . If an Employee fails to comply with the requirements
of Paragraphs 2(a) through 2(g) and is at Band 70 or above at the time his or her active
employment with the Company terminates, the Company may cancel any outstanding Awards and
recover from the Employee (i) the amount of any gain realized on Options and stock
appreciation rights exercised, as of the date exercised, (ii) any payments received for
Portfolio Grant Awards or other Awards and (iii) stock whose restrictions lapsed (or the
value of the stock at the time the restrictions lapsed) pursuant to

17 

an RSA, RSU Award, or
other Awards, during the last two years the Employee was employed by the Company. If an
Employee fails to comply with the requirements of Paragraphs 2(a) through 2(g) and is at
Band 50 or 60 at the time his or her active employment with the Company terminates, the
Company may cancel any outstanding Awards and recover from the Employee the amount of any
gain realized on Options and stock appreciation rights exercised, as of the date exercised,
which were exercised during
the last six months the Employee was employed by the Company. If an Employee fails to
comply with the requirements of Paragraphs 2(a) through 2(g), the Employee must and agrees
to repay the Company in accordance with the terms of this Paragraph, and the Company shall
be entitled, to the extent and in the manner permitted by the 409A Policy, to set off
against the amount of any such repayment obligation any amount owed, from any source, to the
Employee by the Company.

(b)  Other Remedies . The remedy provided pursuant to Paragraph 3(a) shall be without
prejudice to the Company s right to recover any losses resulting from a violation of this
Section V and shall be in addition to whatever other remedies the Company may have, at law
or equity, for violation of the terms of this Section V.

4.  Approval to Exercise Options . If an Employee is a Band 70 or above employee and
elects to exercise more than 40% of his or her outstanding vested Options in any 90-day period,
such Employee will need the written approval of the Chief Executive Officer or President of
American Express Company or their delegate. If an Employee is a member of the Global Leadership
Team ( GLT ) and elects to exercise more than 25% of his or her outstanding vested Options in any
90-day period, such Employee will need the written approval of the Chief Executive Officer or
President of American Express Company or, if he or she is the Chief Executive Officer or President
of American Express Company, the written approval of the Committee. If an Employee is a Band 50 or
60 employee and elects to exercise more than 40% of his or her outstanding vested Options in any
90-day period, such Employee will need the written approval of the Executive Officer who manages
the area he or she works in. The standard for determining whether to approve an Employee s request
to exercise options will be whether he or she is complying and will comply with the requirement of
Paragraphs 2(a) through 2(g). If an Employee s request for approval is denied, he or she may
submit a second request after 90 days have elapsed from the submission date of a completed Notice
of Exercise of Employee Stock Option form ( Form ) on the first request. An Employee will have 30
trading days (exclusive of blackout periods due to  window  closings) from the date he or she
receives written approval to exercise up to the full number of options requested in the Form.

5.  Compensation Band Changes . If the Company changes its current system of
classifying employees in compensation bands and management tiers, the references to Bands 50, 60
and 70, Executive Officers, and GLT members in this Section V will be construed to mean the
compensation level(s) and management tiers in the new or revised system that, in the Company s
discretion, most closely approximates these bands and management tiers under the current system.

6.  Involuntary Terminations . This Section V will not apply to employees of the
Company who enter into a severance agreement with the Company or other involuntary terminations as
determined by the Company (excluding terminations covered by Paragraph 2(e)).

18 

7.  Court Modification . If any term of this Section V is determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction not to be enforceable in the manner set forth in this Section V, such term
shall be enforceable to the maximum extent possible under applicable law, and such court shall
reform such term to make it enforceable.

8.  Definition of Entity . As used in this Section V, the word Entity or Entities shall
mean any corporation, partnership, association, joint venture, trust, government, governmental
agency or authority, person, or other organization or entity.

9.  Waivers . The failure of the Company to enforce at any time any term of this
Section V shall not be construed to be a waiver of such term or of any other term. Any waiver or
modification of the terms of this Section V will only be effective if reduced to writing and signed
by both the Employee and the President or Chief Executive Officer of the Company.

* * * * *

19 

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.24>
 4
 y87970exv10w24.htm
 EX-10.24

exv10w24 

EXHIBIT 10.24 

AMENDMENT OF 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
KEY EXECUTIVE LIFE INSURANCE PLAN 

RESOLVED, that pursuant to Section 10.01 of the American Express Company Key Executive Life
Insurance Plan (the  Plan ), the Plan is amended effective as of January 1, 2011 (the  Effective
Date ), as follows:

1. 
       
     Article VII, Section 7.02, Subsection (d)(iii) is hereby amended by adding a
new Subsection (d)(iii) to read as follows: 

(d)(iii)(A) This Section (d)(iii) shall apply in the event of a Change in
Control, as defined in Section 2.19 hereof.

(B) In the event that any payment or benefit received or to be
received by a Participant hereunder in connection with a Change in Control
or termination of such Participant s employment (hereinafter referred to
collectively as the  Payments ), will be subject to the excise tax referred
to in Section 4999 of the Code (the  Excise Tax ), then the Payments shall
be reduced to the extent necessary so that no portion of the Payments is
subject to the Excise Tax but only if (a) the net amount of all Total
Payments (as hereinafter defined), as so reduced (and after subtracting the
net amount of federal, state, and local income and employment taxes on such
reduced Total Payments), is greater than or equal to (b) the net amount of
such Total Payments without any such reduction (but after subtracting the
net amount of federal, state, and local income and employment taxes on such
Total Payments) and the amount of Excise Tax to which the Participant would
be subject in respect of such unreduced Total Payments;  provided ,  however ,
that the Participant may elect in writing to have other components of his or
her Total Payments reduced prior to any reduction in the Payments hereunder.

(C) For purposes of determining whether the Payments will be subject
to the Excise Tax, the amount of such Excise Tax and whether any Payments
are to be reduced hereunder: (a) all payments and benefits received or to be
received by the Participant in connection with such Change in Control or the
termination of such Participant s employment, whether pursuant to the terms
of this Agreement or any other plan, arrangement, or agreement with the
Company, any Person (as such term is defined in Section 1.22 above) whose
actions result in such Change in Control or any Person affiliated with the
Company or such Person (collectively,  Total Payments ), shall be treated as
 parachute payments  (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code)
unless, in the

opinion of the accounting firm which was, immediately prior to the Change in
Control, the Company s independent auditor, or if that firm refuses to
serve, by another qualified firm, whether or not serving as independent
auditors, designated by the Committee (the  Firm ), such payments or
benefits (in whole or in part) do not constitute parachute payments,
including by reason of Section 280G(b)(2)(A) or Section 280G(b)(4)(A) of the
Code; (b) no portion of the Total Payments the receipt or enjoyment of
which the Participant shall have waived at such time and in such manner as
not to constitute a  payment  within the meaning of Section 280G(b) of the
Code shall be taken into account; (c) all  excess parachute payments  within
the meaning of Section 280G(b)(l) of the Code shall be treated as subject to
the Excise Tax unless, in the opinion of the Firm, such excess parachute
payments (in whole or in part) represent reasonable compensation for
services actually rendered (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(4)(B) of
the Code) in excess of the Base Amount (within the meaning of Section
280G(b)(3) of the Code) allocable to such reasonable compensation, or are
otherwise not subject to the Excise Tax; and (d) the value of any noncash
benefits or any deferred payment or benefit shall be determined by the Firm
in accordance with the principles of Sections 280G(d)(3) and (4) of the Code
and regulations or other guidance thereunder. For purposes of determining
whether any Payments in respect of a Participant shall be reduced, a
Participant shall be deemed to pay federal income tax at the highest
marginal rate of federal income taxation (and state and local income taxes
at the highest marginal rate of taxation in the state and locality of such
Participant s residence, net of the maximum reduction in federal income
taxes which could be obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes)
in the calendar year in which the Payments are made. The Firm will be paid
reasonable compensation by the Company for its services.

(D) As soon as practicable following a Change in Control, but in no event later than 30 days
thereafter, the Company shall provide to each Participant with respect to whom it is proposed that
Payments be reduced, a written statement setting forth the manner in which the Total Payments in
respect of such Participant were calculated and the basis for such calculations, including, without
limitation, any opinions or other advice the Company has received from the Firm or other advisors or
consultants (and any such opinions or advice which are in writing shall be attached to the
statement).

2 

</EX-10.24>

<EX-10.30>
 5
 y87970exv10w30.htm
 EX-10.30

exv10w30 

EXHIBIT 10.30 

AMERICAN EXPRESS 
SENIOR EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PLAN 

(As amended and restated effective January 1, 2011) 

EXHIBIT 10.30 

AMERICAN EXPRESS 
SENIOR EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PLAN 
(As amended and restated effective January 1, 2011) 

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

Introduction

1 

Article 1

Definitions 

1 

Article 2

Participation 

7 

Article 3

Amount of Benefits 

9 

Article 4

Method of Payment 

12 

Article 5

Administration of the Plan 

14 

Article 6

Adopting Companies and Plan Mergers 

16 

Article 7

Amendment and Termination 

16 

Article 8

Financial Provisions 

17 

Article 9

Liability and Indemnification 

17 

Article 10

Miscellaneous 

19 

Schedule A

Schedule for Severance Pay Benefits 

20 

EXHIBIT 10.30 

AMERICAN EXPRESS 
SENIOR EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PLAN 
(As amended and restated effective January 1, 2011) 

INTRODUCTION 

The Board of Directors of American Express Company established the American Express Senior
Executive Severance Plan effective as of January l, l994, to provide for severance benefits for
certain eligible executive officers of American Express Company and its participating subsidiaries
whose employment is terminated under certain conditions. Severance benefits under the Plan are to
be provided to such eligible executives in exchange for a signed agreement that includes a release
of all claims.

ARTICLE 1 
DEFINITIONS 

1.1   Administration Committee   means the Committee established and appointed by the
Board of Directors or by a committee of the Board of Directors.

1.2   Affiliated Company   means any corporation which is a member of a controlled group
of corporations (determined in accordance with Section 4l4(b) of the Code) of which the Company is
a member and any other trade or business (whether or not incorporated) which is controlled by, or
under common control (determined in accordance with Section 4l4(c) of the Code) with the Company,
but which is not an Employing Company.

1.3   Annualized Compensation   means, for an Employee for a given year, the Employee s
annualized compensation based upon the annual rate of pay for services provided to the Employing
Company for the taxable year of the Employee for the year preceding the given year in which the
Employee has a Separation from Service (adjusted for any increases during the given year that was
expected to continue indefinitely if the Employee had not had a Separation from Service),
determined in accordance with Section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii)(A)(1) of the Treasury Regulations.

1.4   Base Salary   means the regular basic cash remuneration before deductions for
taxes and other items withheld, payable to an Employee for services rendered to an Employing
Company, but not including pay for bonuses, incentive compensation, special pay, awards or
commissions.

1.5   Board of Directors   means the board of directors of the Company.

1.6   Bonus   means annual incentive compensation paid to an Employee over and above
Base Salary earned and paid in cash or otherwise under any executive bonus or sales incentive plan
or program of an Employing Company. Annual incentive compensation shall not include incentive
compensation with a performance period longer than one year (e.g., performance grant awards), but
shall include restricted stock awards expressly granted in lieu of cash supplemental annual
incentive awards.

1.7   Change in Control   means the happening of any of the following:

(a) Any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )) (a  Person ) becomes the
beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 25
percent or more of either (i) the then outstanding common shares of the Company (the  Outstanding
Company Common Shares ) or (ii) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities
of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the  Outstanding Company
Voting Securities  provided, however, that such beneficial ownership shall not constitute a
Change in Control if it occurs as a result of any of the following acquisitions of securities: (A)
any acquisition directly from the Company; (B) any acquisition by the Company or any corporation,
partnership, trust or other entity controlled by the Company (a  Subsidiary  (C) any acquisition
by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any
Subsidiary; (D) any acquisition by an underwriter temporarily holding Company securities pursuant
to an offering of such securities; (E) any acquisition by an individual, entity or group that is
permitted to, and actually does, report its beneficial ownership on Schedule 13-G (or any successor
schedule), provided that, if any such individual, entity or group subsequently becomes required to
or does report its beneficial ownership on Schedule 13D (or any successor schedule), then, for
purposes of this subsection, such individual, entity or group shall be deemed to have first
acquired, on the first date on which such individual, entity or group becomes required to or does
so report, beneficial ownership of all of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding
Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by it on such date; or (F) any acquisition by any
corporation pursuant to a reorganization, merger or consolidation if, following such
reorganization, merger or consolidation, the conditions described in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of
Section 1.7(c) are satisfied. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be
deemed to occur solely because any Person (the  Subject Person ) became the beneficial owner of 25
percent or more of the Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities
as a result of the acquisition of Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting
Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of Outstanding Company Common Shares or
Outstanding Company Voting Securities, increases the proportional number of shares beneficially
owned by the Subject Person; provided, that if a Change in Control would be deemed to have occurred
(but for the operation of this sentence) as a result of the acquisition of Outstanding Company
Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities by the Company, and after such share
acquisition by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the beneficial owner of any additional
Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities which increases the
percentage of the Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities
beneficially owned by the Subject Person, then a Change in Control shall then be deemed to have
occurred; or

(b) Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors (the  Incumbent
Board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors; provided,
however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or
nomination for election by the Company s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a
majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such
individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for

2 

this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of
either an actual or threatened election contest or other actual or threatened solicitation of
proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board of Directors, including by
reason of agreement intended to avoid or settle any such actual or threatened contest or
solicitation; or

(c) The consummation of a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange, consolidation, or
similar corporate transaction involving the Company or any of its direct or indirect Subsidiaries
(each a  Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) the
Outstanding Company Common Shares and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior
to such Business Combination, continue to represent (either by remaining outstanding or being
converted into voting securities of the resulting or surviving entity or any parent thereof) more
than 50 percent of the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the
then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the
case may be, of the corporation resulting from Business Combination (including, without limitation,
a corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all
of the Company s assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries), (ii) no Person
(excluding the Company, any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company, a Subsidiary
of such corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any parent or subsidiary thereof,
and any Person beneficially owning, immediately prior to such Business Combination, directly or
indirectly, 25 percent or more of the Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company
Voting Securities, as the case may be) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 25 percent or
more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting
from such Business Combination (or any parent thereof) or the combined voting power of the then
outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of
directors and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation
resulting from such Business Combination (or any parent thereof) were members of the Incumbent
Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or action of the Board of Directors
providing for such Business Combination; or

(d) The consummation of the sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially
all of the assets of the Company, unless such assets have been sold, leased, exchanged or disposed
of to a corporation with respect to which following such sale, lease, exchange or other disposition
(i) more than 50 percent of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such
corporation and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such
corporation (or any parent thereof) entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then
beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and
entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Shares and
Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such sale, lease, exchange or other
disposition in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such
sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of such Outstanding Company Common Shares and
Outstanding Company Voting Shares, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (excluding the Company and
any employee benefit plan (or related trust)) of the Company or a Subsidiary or of such corporation
or a subsidiary thereof and any Person beneficially owning, immediately prior to such sale, lease,
exchange or other disposition, directly or indirectly, 25 percent or more of the Outstanding
Company

3 

Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be) beneficially owns,
directly or indirectly, 25 percent or more of respectively, the then outstanding shares of common
stock of such corporation (or any parent thereof) and the combined voting power of the then
outstanding voting securities of such corporation (or any parent thereof) entitled to vote
generally in the election of directors and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of
directors of such corporation (or any parent thereof) were members of the Incumbent Board at the
time of the execution of the initial agreement or action of the Board of Directors providing for
such sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of assets of the Company; or

(e) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of
the Company.

1.8   Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.

1.9   Committee   means the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of
Directors or any successor committee appointed by the Board of Directors.

1.10   Company   means American Express Company, a New York corporation, its successors
and assigns.

1.11   Comparable Position   means a job with the Company, an Employing Company, an
Affiliated Company or successor company at the same or higher Base Salary as an Employee s current
job and at a work location within reasonable commuting distance from an Employee s home, as
determined by such Employee s Employing Company. For Employees in the Employing Company s
international expatriate program, Comparable Position means a job with an Employing Company, an
Affiliated Company or successor company at the same or higher Base Salary as an Employee s current
job and at a work location in the Employee s country of assignment, home country or career base
country.

1.12   Completed Years of Service   means the number of full one year periods that have
transpired since the Employee s original date of hire or, in the case of someone who has incurred a
break in service, the date of rehire, through the Employee s Separation from Service with the
Company.

1.13   Constructive Termination   means a Separation from Service by an Employee from an
Employing Company as a result of one or more of the following without the Employee s written
consent within two years after a Change in Control (each of the following, a  Good Reason ):

(a) a material reduction in Base Salary, except for across-the-board changes similarly
affecting all Employees of the Employing Company and all Employees of any Person in control of the
Employing Company, or any material reduction in the aggregate of the Employee s annual and long
term incentive opportunity, in each case from that in effect immediately prior to the Change in
Control;

4 

(b) the Employing Company s requirement that the Employee be based more than 50 miles from the
location at which the Employee was based immediately prior to the Change in Control and which
location is more than 35 miles from the Employee s residence;

(c) the assignment to the Employee of any duties that are materially inconsistent with the
Employee s duties prior to the Change in Control; or

(d) a significant reduction in the Employee s position, duties, or responsibilities from those
in effect prior to the Change in Control.

The Employee shall notify the Employing Company within 30 days after the occurrence of an event
giving rise to a Good Reason and the Employing Company shall have 30 days to remedy the condition,
and if remedied by the Employing Company within such 30-day period, no Good Reason shall exist on
account of the remedied event. A  Constructive Termination  is intended to qualify as an
involuntary separation from service for purposes of Section 409A, and this definition of
 Constructive Termination  shall be administered and interpreted consistent with such intention.

1.14   Defined Termination   means a Separation from Service of an Employee within two
years after a Change in Control that occurs as a result of either: (a) an Involuntary Termination,
or (b) a Constructive Termination.

1.15   Employee   means any person, at the senior executive level as defined by the
Administration Committee, paid through the payroll function of the Employing Company (as opposed to
the accounts payable function of the Employing Company) and employed on a regular full-time basis
(i.e., an employee whose scheduled workweek is consistent with the standard workweek schedule of a
business unit or department) or regular part-time basis (i.e., an employee who is scheduled to work
at least 20 hours per week, but fewer than the hours of a regular full-time employee) by an
Employing Company, who receives from an Employing Company a regular stated compensation and an
annual IRS Form W-2; provided, however, that an Employing Company or operating business unit
thereof, due to business, marketplace or employee relations reasons, may, in its sole discretion,
by policy exclude from the definition of Employee under the Plan any category or level of employee
employed in a non-exempt, exempt or executive level position or in an initial probationary or trial
period of employment. The term  Employee  shall not include any person who has entered into an
independent contractor agreement, consulting agreement, franchise agreement or any similar
agreement with an Employing Company, nor the employees of any such person, regardless of whether
that person (including his or her employees) is later found to be an employee by any court of law
or regulatory authority.

1.16   Employing Company   means the Company and such of its subsidiaries and affiliated
companies and other trades or businesses as have adopted the Plan and have been admitted to
participation by the Committee or any one or more of them, and any corporation or other entity
succeeding to the rights and assuming the obligations of any such company hereunder in the manner
described in Section 6.1.

5 

1.17   ERISA   means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of l974, as amended
from time to time.

1.18   Executive Officer   means an employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries
who is in a position which is designated by the Board of Directors of the Company as a position
which is subject to the reporting requirements under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder in respect of the equity
securities of the Company; provided, however, that the Comptroller of the Company (although subject
to the above reporting requirements) shall not be deemed to be an Executive Officer.

1.19   Good Cause   means a discontinuance of an Employee s employment by an Employing
Company upon one of the following:

(a) the Employee s Willful and continued failure to adequately perform substantially all of
the Employee s duties with the Employing Company;

(b) the Employee s Willful engagement in conduct which is demonstrably and materially
injurious to the Employing Company or an affiliate thereof, monetarily or otherwise; or

(c) the Employee s conviction of a felony.

1.20   Involuntary Termination   means any involuntary Separation from Service by an
Employee from an Employing Company for reasons other than Good Cause within two years after a
Change in Control. An  Involuntary Termination  is intended to qualify as an involuntary
separation from service for purposes of Section 409A, and this definition of  Involuntary
Termination  shall be administered and interpreted consistent with such intention.

1.21   Leave of Absence   means the period during which an Employee is absent from work
pursuant to a leave of absence granted by an Employing Company where such leave of absence does not
result in a Separation from Service.

1.22   Mutually Satisfactory Resignation   means an Employee s resignation where the
Employing Company would have terminated the Employee s services if the Employee did not voluntarily
resign, and the Employee was aware of that fact. A  Mutually Satisfactory Resignation  is intended
to qualify as an involuntary separation from service for purposes of Section 409A, and this
definition of  Mutually Satisfactory Resignation  shall be administered and interpreted consistent
with such intention.

1.23   Plan   means the American Express Senior Executive Severance Plan, as set forth
herein and as hereafter amended from time to time.

1.24   Plan Year   means a calendar year.

1.25   Policy   means the American Express Section 409A Compliance Policy, as amended
from time to time, and any successor policy thereto.

6 

1.26   Predecessor Company   means any corporation or unincorporated entity heretofore
or hereafter merged or consolidated with or otherwise absorbed by an Employing Company or any
substantial part of the business of which has been or shall be acquired by an Employing Company.

1.27   Retirement   means a Separation from Service that qualifies as a  normal
retirement,  as defined in and meeting the terms and conditions of the American Express Retirement
Savings Plan, as amended from time to time, and any successor plan thereto.

1.28   Section 409A   means Section 409A of the Code, and the Treasury Regulations
promulgated and other official guidance issued thereunder.

1.29   Section 409A Change in Control   means a  change in the ownership,  a  change in
the effective control  or a  change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets  of the
Employing Company, each as determined in accordance with Section 409A.

1.30   Section 401(a)(17) Limit   means, with respect to a given year, the maximum
amount that may be taken into account under a qualified plan pursuant to Section 401(a)(17) of the
Code for such year, determined in accordance with Section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii)(A)(2) of the Treasury
Regulations.

1.31   Separation from Service   means a  separation from service  for purposes of
Section 409A, as determined in accordance with the Policy.

1.32   Separation Period   means the period of time over which an Employee receives
severance benefits under the Plan in substantially equal installment payments, which shall be equal
to the number of weeks of severance benefits to which the Employee is entitled pursuant to Schedule
A hereto.

1.33   Willful   means that an act or failure to act on an Employee s part is done, or
omitted to be done, by the Employee in a manner that is not in good faith, and that is without
reasonable belief that such action or omission was in the best interests of an Employing Company.

ARTICLE 2 
PARTICIPATION 

2.1  Eligibility to Receive Benefits . Subject to Section 2.2, each Employee shall be
eligible to receive benefits under the Plan in the event of such Employee s Separation from Service
from an Employing Company for one of the following reasons:

(a) reduction in force;

(b) position elimination;

(c) office closing;

(d) poor performance;

7 

(e) Mutually Satisfactory Resignation;

(f) relocation of an employee s current position that does not meet the definition of
Comparable Position; or

(g) Defined Termination (notwithstanding any provision of Section 2.3).

2.2  Limitations on Eligibility  In the event an Employee who is otherwise eligible to
receive benefits under the Plan is offered a Comparable Position (whether the position is accepted
or rejected by the Employee), the Employee will not be eligible to receive benefits under the Plan
with respect to any resultant Separation from Service. In addition, an Employee is not eligible to
receive benefits under the Plan if the Employee accepts any position in the Company, an Employing
Company, an Affiliated Company or successor company (regardless of whether it is a Comparable
Position). An Employee who is an Executive Officer and who otherwise meets the eligibility
criteria may only receive benefits under the Plan if approved by the Committee in advance. An
Employee who is offered or placed on a temporary layoff status (often referred to as a furlough)
with reduced or no pay for a period of less than six months during which time the Employee
continues to participate in certain benefit plans as determined by the Company is not eligible to
receive benefits under the Plan.

2.3  Ineligibility for Participation . An Employee is ineligible to receive benefits
under the Plan in the event his Separation from Service by an Employing Company for a reason other
than those enumerated in Section 2.1, including, but not limited to, the following:

(a) voluntary resignation;

(b) failure to report for work;

(c) failure to return from leave;

(d) return from a Leave of Absence which extends beyond the policy reinstatement period, if
applicable, and no position is available;

(e) excessive absenteeism or lateness;

(f) merger, acquisition, sale, transfer, outsourcing or reorganization of all or part of the
Employing Company or any affiliate thereof where either (i) a Comparable Position is offered with,
or (ii) the Employee accepts any position (regardless of whether it is a Comparable Position) with,
a successor company, whether affiliated or unaffiliated with the Employing Company, including an
outside contractor, and whether or not the successor company adopts the Plan;

(g) violation of a policy or procedure of the Employing Company, insubordination,
unwillingness to perform the duties of a position, suspected dishonesty, or other misconduct;

(h) Retirement, including the acceptance of any Employing Company sponsored retirement
incentive; provided, however, that in the event an Employee is otherwise

8 

eligible for a severance pay benefit in accordance with Section 2.1 and also eligible for
Retirement, the Employee shall be eligible to receive benefits under the Plan in accordance with
Article  or

(i) death.

ARTICLE 3 
AMOUNT OF BENEFITS 

3.1  Amount of Benefits . The severance benefit payable to an eligible Employee under
the Plan shall be based on his Completed Years of Service and position with the Company, Employing
Company or Affiliated Company. The formula for determining an Employee s severance benefit payment
shall be calculated by first adding together (a) the Employee s annual Base Salary in effect
immediately prior to the date of Separation from Service and (b) the last annual Bonus paid to the
Employee as of the date management tenders to him the Agreement required pursuant to Section 3.5.
In the case of a recently hired Employee who has not yet received a Bonus, the Employee s
designated target Bonus may be used as the Section 3.1(b) portion of the foregoing calculation.
The sum of Section 3.1(a) and (b) shall then be divided by 52 to calculate the weekly severance
benefit (the  Weekly Severance Benefit Amount ). The amount of the total severance benefit (the
 Gross Severance Benefit Amount ) shall be determined by multiplying the Weekly Severance Benefit
Amount by the number of weeks of severance benefits to which the Employee is entitled pursuant to
Schedule A hereto. The number of weeks over which severance benefits are payable under the Plan to
any eligible Employee who is not an Executive Officer shall not exceed 78 weeks, and the number of
weeks over which severance benefits are payable under the Plan to any eligible Employee who is an
Executive Officer shall not exceed 104 weeks. The total amount of severance calculated pursuant to
Schedule A hereto shall not exceed 78 weeks for Employees who are not Executive Officers or 104
weeks for Executive Officers.

3.2  Limitations on Amount of Severance Benefits . To the extent permissible under
Section 409A, benefits payable under the Plan to an Employee shall be inclusive of and offset by
any other severance, redundancy or termination payment made by an Employing Company to the
Employee, including, but not limited to, any amounts paid pursuant to federal, state, local or
foreign government worker notification (e.g., Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act) or
office closing requirements, any amounts owed the Employee pursuant to a contract with the
Employing Company (unless the contract specifically provides otherwise) and amounts paid to an
Employee placed in a temporary layoff status (often referred to as a furlough) which immediately
precedes the commencement of the severance payments.

3.3  Reemployment . In the event an Employee is reemployed by the Employing Company or
an Affiliated Company within the period covered by the schedule of severance benefits on Schedule A
hereto, the severance benefits, if any, that are in excess of the number of weeks between the
Separation from Service and the rehire date shall be repaid by the Employee or withheld by the
Employing Company, as the case may be; and any benefits withheld or repaid shall be forfeited by
the Employee. In the further event an eligible Employee who is receiving severance benefits under
the Plan is later rehired by an Employing Company or an Affiliated Company, and employment later
terminates under conditions making such Employee eligible for

9 

severance benefits under the Plan, the amount of the second severance benefit will be based on
such Employee s actual date of reemployment and not the original date of employment.

3.4  Withholding Tax . The Employing Company shall deduct from the amount of any
severance benefits payable under the Plan, any amount required to be withheld by the Employing
Company by reason of any law or regulation, for the payment of taxes or otherwise to any federal,
state, local or foreign government. In determining the amount of any applicable tax, the Employing
Company shall be entitled to rely on the number of personal exemptions on the official form(s)
filed by the Employee with the Employing Company for purposes of income tax withholding on regular
wages.

3.5
 Requirement of Signed Agreement . Receipt of severance benefits under the Plan is
conditioned upon the Employee signing an agreement with the Employee s Employing Company in a form
satisfactory to the Company and in accordance with the requirements of applicable law (the
 Agreement ). The Agreement must include a release of claims and may include whatever other terms
the Employing Company deems appropriate, including restrictive covenants. If the terms of the
Agreement are found to be legally unenforceable, the Employee must return any severance benefits
paid pursuant to Section 3.1 of the Plan plus the value of any long term incentive awards which
vested during the Separation Period; provided, however, that in the event the Employee has a
Defined Termination, such restrictive covenants shall (a) be reasonable under the applicable facts
and circumstances; (b) include the following (i) non-solicitation of customers and employees; (ii)
confidentiality of business data; (iii) full release of claims; and (iv) non-denigration of the
Company and its affiliates, and their officers, directors and agents; and (c) not include any
non-competition limitations. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company shall,
for a period of two years and one day following a Change in Control, be prohibited from entering
into any agreement with an Employee, which contains a more expansive Competitor List (as provided
in Paragraph 2 of the  Consent to the Application of Forfeiture and Detrimental Conduct Provisions
to Incentive Compensation Plan Awards ) than that which was in effect for such Employee immediately
prior to the date of such Change in Control. If an Employee has already signed the Agreement
required by this Section 3.5 prior to the date of a Change in Control, the Employee is not eligible
to receive any benefits that would otherwise be triggered by a Change in Control, except as
provided by Section 4.1(g).

3.6  Excise Tax .

(a) This Section 3.6 shall apply in the event of a Change in Control.

(b) In the event that any payment or benefit received or to be received by an Employee
hereunder in connection with a Change in Control or such Employee s Separation from Service (such
payments and benefits hereinafter referred to collectively as the   Payments  ), will be
subject to the excise tax (the   Excise Tax  ) referred to in Section 4999 of the Code, then
the Payments shall be reduced to the extent necessary so that no portion of the Payments is subject
to the Excise Tax but only if (A) the net amount of all Total Payments (as hereinafter defined), as
so reduced (and after subtracting the net amount of federal, state and local income and employment
taxes on such reduced Total Payments), is greater than or equal to (B) the net amount of such Total
Payments without any such reduction (but after subtracting the net amount

10 

of federal, state and
local income and employment taxes on such Total Payments and the
amount of Excise Tax to which an Employee would be subject in respect of such unreduced Total
Payments); provided, however, that the Employee may elect in writing to have other components of
his or her Total Payments reduced prior to any reduction in the Payments hereunder.

(c) For purposes of determining whether the Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax, the
amount of such Excise Tax and whether any Payments are to be reduced hereunder: (i) all payments
and benefits received or to be received by an Employee in connection with such Change in Control or
such Employee s Separation from Service, whether pursuant to the terms of the Plan or any other
plan, arrangement or agreement with the Company, any Person (as such term is defined in Section
1.7) whose actions result in such Change in Control or any Person affiliated with the Company or
such Person (all such payments and benefits being hereinafter referred to as the   Total
Payments  ), shall be treated as  parachute payments  (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2)
of the Code) unless, in the opinion of the accounting firm which was, immediately prior to the
Change in Control, the Company s independent auditor, or if that firm refuses to serve, by another
qualified firm, whether or not serving as independent auditors, designated by the Administration
Committee (the   Firm  ), such payments or benefits (in whole or in part) do not constitute
parachute payments, including by reason of Section 280G(b)(2)(A) or Section 280G(b)(4)(A) of the
Code; (ii) no portion of the Total Payments the receipt or enjoyment of which the Employee shall
have waived at such time and in such manner as not to constitute a  payment  within the meaning of
Section 280G(b) of the Code shall be taken into account; (iii) all  excess parachute payments 
within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(l) of the Code shall be treated as subject to the Excise Tax
unless, in the opinion of the Firm, such excess parachute payments (in whole or in part) represent
reasonable compensation for services actually rendered (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(4)(B)
of the Code) in excess of the Base Amount (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code)
allocable to such reasonable compensation, or are otherwise not subject to the Excise Tax; and (iv)
the value of any noncash benefits or any deferred payment or benefit shall be determined by the
Firm in accordance with the principles of Sections 280G(d)(3) and (4) of the Code and regulations
or other guidance there under. For purposes of determining whether any Payments in respect of a
Employee shall be reduced, the Employee shall be deemed to pay federal income tax at the highest
marginal rate of federal income taxation (and state and local income taxes at the highest marginal
rate of taxation in the state and locality of such Employee s residence, net of the maximum
reduction in federal income taxes which could be obtained from deduction of such state and local
taxes) in the calendar year in which the Payments are made. The Firm will be paid reasonable
compensation by the Company for its services.

(d) As soon as practicable following a Change in Control, but in no event later than 30 days
thereafter, the Company shall provide to each Employee with respect to whom it is proposed that
Payments be reduced, a written statement setting forth the manner in which the Total Payments in
respect of such Employee were calculated and the basis for such calculations, including, without
limitation, any opinions or other advice the Company has received from the Firm or other advisors
or consultants (and any such opinions or advice which are in writing shall be attached to the
statement).

11 

ARTICLE 4 
METHOD OF PAYMENT 

4.1  Payment .

(a) Except as otherwise provided by this Article 4 or the Plan, the Company shall pay the
Gross Severance Benefit Amount to the Employee during the Separation Period in substantially equal
payments in accordance with the normal payroll schedule applicable to the Employee, commencing with
the applicable payroll period immediately following the Employee s Separation from Service.

(b) If the severance benefits provided under the Plan qualify for the involuntary separation
pay exception under Section 409A, the Employee is a  specified employee  (for purposes of Section
409A and as determined in accordance with the Policy) on the date of his Separation from Service,
and the total amount of benefits to be paid to the Employee during the six-month period following
his Separation from Service is more than two times the lesser of the Employee s Annualized
Compensation or the Section 401(a)(17) Limit, each for the year in which the Separation from
Service occurs, then:

(i) the severance benefits to be paid during the six-month period following the Employee s
Separation from Service shall be two times the lesser of the Employee s Annualized Compensation or
the Section 401(a)(17) Limit, each for the year in which the Separation from Service occurs,
divided by the number of severance payments to be made during such six-month period (given the
normal payroll schedule applicable to the Employee);

(ii) the difference between the amount of the severance benefits actually paid by the Company
or Employing Company pursuant to Section 4.1(b)(i) and the amount the Employee would have received
during such six-month period but for the application of Section 4.1(b)(i), shall be paid to the
Employee on the first payroll date immediately following the first day of the seventh month
following the Employee s Separation from Service; and

(iii) the balance of the severance benefits to be paid for the remainder of the Separation
Period following the expiration of the six-month period shall be paid in accordance with Section
4.1(a).

(c) In the event that the severance benefits provided under the Plan do not qualify for the
involuntary separation pay exception under Section 409A and the Employee is a  specified employee 
(for purposes of Section 409A and as determined in accordance with the Policy) on the date of his
Separation from Service, then:

12 

(i) the amount the Employee would have received during the six-month period following the
Employee s Separation from Service had the severance benefits been paid in installments in
accordance with Section 4.1(a) during such six-month period shall be paid to the Employee in a lump
sum on the first payroll date immediately following the first day of the seventh month following
the Employee s Separation from Service; and

(ii) the balance of the severance benefits to be paid for the remainder of the Separation
Period following the expiration of the six-month period shall be paid in accordance with Section
4.1(a).

(d) In the event the Employee has a Defined Termination, and the Change in Control to which
the Defined Termination relates qualifies as a Section 409A Change in Control, then:

(i) if the Employee is not a  specified employee  (for purposes of Section 409A and as
determined in accordance with the Policy) on the date of his Separation from Service, the
Employee s Gross Severance Benefit Amount will be paid to him in a lump sum within 15 days
following the Employee s Separation from Service; and

(ii) if the Employee is a  specified employee  (for purposes of Section 409A and as determined
in accordance with the Policy) on the date of his Separation from Service, the Employee s Gross
Severance Benefit Amount will be paid to him as follows:

(1) if the severance benefits provided under the Plan qualify for the involuntary separation
pay exception under Section 409A, an amount equal to two times the lesser of the Employee s
Annualized Compensation or the Section 401(a)(17) Limit, each for the year in which the Separation
from Service occurs, shall be paid to him in a lump sum within 15 days following the Employee s
Separation from Service; and

(2) the Employee s Gross Severance Benefit Amount, less the amount, if any, paid to the
Employee pursuant to Section 4.1(d)(ii)(1), will be paid to him in a lump sum on the first day of
the seventh month following the Employee s Separation from Service.

(e) Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, if the Employee s Separation from
Service occurs within two years following a Change in Control, then to the extent permissible under
Section 409A, the Employee shall continue to be eligible to receive benefits under the Company s
medical and dental plans for the applicable period as if the Employee were paid severance in
installments, such benefits to be substantially identical to the benefits provided immediately
prior to the Change in Control. In the event that the continuation of any such benefits during the
six-month period following Separation from Service would result in the imposition of a tax under
Section 409A, the Company shall allow the Employee to pay the out-of-pocket cost of such benefits
during such six-month period and the Company will make a lump-sum payment to the Employee in an
amount equal to the out-of-pocket costs so paid by the Employee, on the first day of the seventh
month following the Employee s Separation from Service.

13 

(f) Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, if the Employee is not a United
States citizen and has not been taxable for US federal income tax purposes as a resident alien at
any time during his employment with the Employing Company, then, to the extent it would not result
in the imposition of the excise tax or penalty under Section 409A to the Employee, the Employing
Company may pay the Gross Severance Benefit Amount to the Employee in a lump sum or in
installments, in the Employing Company s sole discretion.

(g)  Inactive Employment Status . During the Separation Period, the Employee will
remain in an inactive employment status until receipt of such payments is completed, at which time
employment will be terminated. During the Separation Period, to the extent permissible under
Section 409A, certain other employee benefits may be continued, payment for which shall be deducted
from such severance payments in accordance with the Employee s previously elected benefit coverage.
During the Separation Period, the Company reserves the right, to the extent permissible under
Section 409A, to continue other programs such as the Incentive Compensation Plan and the Perquisite
Program in accordance with its policies, which may be changed or terminated from time to time.
Nothing in this Section 4.1(g) shall create a contract to provide such benefits.

4.2  Limitations on Severance Payments . In no event shall the period of time during
which an Employee receives severance payments exceed 104 weeks. Nothing in this Section 4.2 shall
affect the total number of weeks payable under the Plan pursuant to Schedule A hereto, including,
but not limited to, the 104-week maximum payment.

4.3  Death . In the event an Employee dies before full receipt of severance benefits
payable under the Plan, the remaining severance benefits will be paid to the legal representative
of such Employee s estate in a lump sum after receipt of notice of such death and evidence
satisfactory to the Company of the payment or provision for the payment of any estate, transfer,
inheritance or death taxes which may be payable with respect thereto; provided, however, payment
must be made within 90 days of the date of the Employee s death, or such later date permitted by
Section 409A.

ARTICLE 5 
ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 

5.1  Powers of the Employing Company . The Employing Company shall have such powers,
authorities and discretion as are necessary or appropriate in order to carry out its duties under
the Plan, including, but not limited to, the power:

(a) to obtain such information as it shall deem necessary or appropriate in order to carry out
its duties under the Plan;

(b) to make determinations with respect to the grounds for termination of employment of any
Employee; and

(c) to establish and maintain necessary records.

14 

5.2  Employing Company Authority . Nothing contained in the Plan shall be deemed to
qualify, limit or alter in any manner the Employing Company s sole and complete authority and
discretion to establish, regulate, determine or modify at any time, the terms and conditions of
employment, including, but not limited to, levels of employment, hours of work, the extent of
hiring and employment termination, when and where work shall be done, marketing of its products, or
any other matter related to the conduct of its business or the manner in which its business is to
be maintained or carried on, in the same manner and to the same extent as if the Plan were not in
existence.

5.3  Administration Committee Duties and Powers . The Administration Committee shall be
responsible for the general administration and interpretation of the Plan and the proper execution
of its provisions and shall have full discretion to carry out its duties. The Administration
Committee shall be the  Administrator  of the Plan and shall be, in its capacity as Administrator,
a  Named Fiduciary,  as such terms are defined or used in ERISA. For the purposes of carrying out
its duties as Administrator, the Administration Committee may, in its sole discretion, allocate its
responsibilities under the Plan among its members, and may, in its sole discretion, designate
persons other than members of the Administration Committee to carry out such of its
responsibilities under the Plan as it may deem fit. In addition to the powers of the
Administration Committee specified elsewhere in the Plan, the Administration Committee shall have
all discretionary powers necessary to discharge its duties under the Plan, including, but not
limited to, the following discretionary powers and duties:

(a) to interpret or construe the Plan, and resolve ambiguities, inconsistencies and omissions;

(b) to make and enforce such rules and regulations and prescribe the use of such forms as it
deems necessary or appropriate for the efficient administration of the Plan; and

(c) to decide all questions on appeal concerning the Plan and the eligibility of any person to
receive benefits under the Plan.

5.4  Determinations . The determination of the Administration Committee as to any
question involving the general administration and interpretation or construction of the Plan shall
be within its sole discretion and shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, except as
otherwise provided herein or by law.

5.5  Claims Review Procedure . Consistent with the requirements of ERISA and the
regulations thereunder as promulgated by the Secretary of Labor from time to time, the following
claims review procedure shall be followed with respect to the denial of severance benefits to any
Employee:

(a) Within 30 days from the date of an Employee s Separation from Service, the Employing
Company shall furnish such Employee either an agreement offering severance benefits under the Plan
or notice of such Employee s ineligibility for or denial of severance benefits, either in whole or
in part. Such notice from the Employing Company will be in writing and sent to the Employee or the
legal representative of his estate stating the reasons for such ineligibility or denial and, if
applicable, a description of additional information that might cause a

15 

reconsideration by the Administration Committee or its delegate of the decision and an
explanation of the Plan s claims review procedure. In the event such notice is not furnished
within 30 days, any claim for severance benefits shall be deemed denied and the Employee shall be
permitted to proceed to Section 5.5(b).

(b) Within 60 days after receiving notice of such denial or ineligibility or within 90 days
after the Employee s Separation from Service if no notice is received, the Employee, the legal
representative of his estate or a duly authorized representative may then submit to the
Administration Committee a written request for a review of such decision of denial.

(c) The Administration Committee will review the claim and within 60 days (or 120 days in
special circumstances) provide a written response to the appeal setting forth specific reasons for
such decision. In the event the decision on review is not furnished within such time period, the
claim shall be deemed denied.

ARTICLE 6 
ADOPTING COMPANIES AND PLAN MERGERS 

6.1  Adopting Companies . Any corporation which succeeds to the business and assets of
the Company or any part of its operations, may by appropriate resolution adopt the Plan and shall
thereupon succeed to such rights and assume such obligations hereunder as the Company and said
corporation shall have agreed upon in writing. Any corporation which succeeds to the business of
any Employing Company other than the Company, or any part of the operations of such Employing
Company, may by appropriate resolution adopt the Plan and shall thereupon succeed to such rights
and assume such obligations hereunder as such Employing Company and said corporation shall have
agreed upon in writing, provided, however, that such adoption and the terms thereof agreed upon in
such writing have been approved by the Company.

ARTICLE 7 
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 

7.1  Right to Amend or Terminate . The Company reserves the right, by action of the
Board of Directors or the Committee, to amend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part at any time
and from time to time, and any amendment or effective date of termination may be given retroactive
effect; provided, however, that the Plan may not be amended or terminated if such amendment or
termination would cause the Plan to fail to comply with, or cause an Employee to be subject to tax
under, Section 409A. The foregoing sentence to the contrary notwithstanding, for a period of two
years and one day after the date of an occurrence of a Change in Control, neither the Board of
Directors nor the Committee may terminate the Plan or amend the Plan in a manner that is
detrimental to the rights of any eligible Employee under the Plan without his or her written
consent.

7.2  Termination by an Employing Company . Any Employing Company other than the Company
may withdraw from participation in the Plan at any time by delivering to the Administration
Committee written notification to that effect signed by such Employing Company s chief executive
officer or his delegate. Withdrawal by any Employing Company pursuant to this Section 7.2, or complete discontinuance of severance benefits under the Plan
by

16 

any Employing Company other than the Company, shall constitute termination of the Plan with
respect to such Employing Company. The foregoing sentence to the contrary notwithstanding, neither
the Board of Directors nor the Committee may terminate the Plan or amend the Plan in a manner that
(a) would cause the Plan to fail to comply with, or cause an Employee to be subject to tax under,
Section 409A; (b) is detrimental to the rights of any eligible Employee of the Plan without his
written consent (i) with respect to the provisions of the Plan which become applicable upon a
Change in Control, and (ii) with respect to all provisions of the Plan for a period of two years
and one day after the date of a Change in Control.

7.3  Limitation on Benefits . In the event any Employing Company withdraws from
participation or the Company terminates the Plan as provided in this Article 7, no Employee shall
be entitled to receive benefits hereunder for employment either before or after such action.

ARTICLE 8 
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS 

8.1  Funding . All severance benefits payable under the Plan shall be payable and
provided for solely from the general assets of the Employing Company in accordance with the Plan,
at the time such severance benefits are payable, unless otherwise determined by the Employing
Company. The Employing Company shall not be required to establish any special or separate fund or
to make any other segregation of assets to assure the payment of any severance benefits under the
Plan.

ARTICLE 9 
LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION 

9.1  Standard of Conduct . To the extent permitted by ERISA and other applicable law,
no member (which term, as used in this Article 9, shall include any employee of any Employing
Company designated to carry out any responsibility of the Administration Committee pursuant to
Section 5.3) of the Administration Committee shall be liable for anything done or omitted to be
done by him in connection with the Plan, unless the member failed to act (a) in good faith and (b)
for a purpose which such member reasonably believed to be in accordance with the intent of the
Plan. The Company or Employing Company, as applicable, hereby indemnifies each person made, or
threatened to be made, a party to an action or proceeding, whether civil or criminal, or against
whom any claim or demand is made, by reason of the fact that he, his testator or intestate, was or
is a member of the Administration Committee, against judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement
and reasonable expenses (including attorney s fees) actually and necessarily incurred as a result
of such action or proceeding, or any appeal therein, or as a result of such claim or demand, if
such member of the Administration Committee acted in good faith for a purpose which he reasonably
believed to be in accordance with the intent of the Plan and, in criminal actions or proceedings,
in addition, had no reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful. Any reimbursement
shall be paid to a member of the Administration Committee in accordance with the Policy.

9.2  Presumption of Good Faith . The termination of any such civil or criminal action
or proceeding, or the disposition of any such claim or demand, by
judgment, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere, or its equivalent, shall not in itself create a

17 

presumption that any such member of the Administration Committee did not act (a) in good faith and
(b) for a purpose which he reasonably believed to be in accordance with the intent of the Plan.

9.3  Successful Defense . A person who has been wholly successful, on the merits or
otherwise, in the defense of a civil or criminal action or proceeding or claim or demand of the
character described in Section 9.1 shall be entitled to indemnification as authorized in such
Section 9.1.

9.4  Unsuccessful Defense . Except as provided in Section 9.3, any indemnification
under Section 9.1, unless ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction, shall be made by the
Company only if authorized in the specific case:

(a) by the Board of Directors acting by a quorum consisting of directors who are not parties
to such action, proceeding, claim or demand, upon a finding that the member of the Administration
Committee has met the standard of conduct set forth in Section 9.1; or

(b) if a quorum under Section 9.4(a) is not obtainable with due diligence:

(i) by the Board of Directors upon the opinion in writing of independent legal counsel (who
may be counsel to any Employing Company) that indemnification is proper under the circumstances
because the standard of conduct set forth in Section 9.1 has been met by such member of the
Administration Committee; or

(ii) by the shareholders of the Company upon a finding that the member of the Administration
Committee has met the standard of conduct set forth in such Section 9.1.

9.5  Advance Payments . Expenses incurred in defending a civil or criminal action or
proceeding or claim or demand may be paid by the Company or Employing Company, as applicable, in
advance of the final disposition of such action or proceeding, claim or demand, if authorized in
the manner specified in Section 9.4, except that, in view of the obligation of repayment set forth
in Section 9.6, there need be no finding or opinion that the required standard of conduct has been
met.

9.6  Repayment of Advance Payments . All expenses incurred in defending a civil or
criminal action or proceeding, claim or demand, which are advanced by the Company or Employing
Company, as applicable, under Section 9.5 shall be repaid upon demand by the Company or Employing
Company in case the person receiving such advance is ultimately found, under the procedures set
forth in this Article 9, not to be entitled to indemnification or, where indemnification is
granted, to the extent the expenses so advanced by the Company or Employing Company, as applicable,
exceed the indemnification to which he is entitled.

9.7  Right to Indemnification . Notwithstanding the failure of the Company or Employing
Company, as applicable, to provide indemnification in the manner set forth in Section 9.4 or 9.5,
and despite any contrary resolution of the Board of Directors or of
the shareholders in the specific case, if the member of the Administration Committee has met the

18 

standard of conduct set forth in Section 9.1, the person made or threatened to be made a party to
the action or proceeding or against whom the claim or demand has been made, shall have the legal
right to indemnification from the Company or Employing Company, as applicable, as a matter of
contract by virtue of the Plan, it being the intention that each such person shall have the right
to enforce such right of indemnification against the Company or Employing Company, as applicable,
in any court of competent jurisdiction.

ARTICLE 10 
MISCELLANEOUS 

10.1  No Right to Continued Employment . Nothing in the Plan shall be construed as
giving any Employee the right to be retained in the employ of any Employing Company or any right to
any payment whatsoever, except to the extent of the severance benefits provided for by the Plan.
Each Employing Company expressly reserves the right to dismiss any Employee at any time and for any
reason without liability for the effect which such dismissal might have upon him as an eligible
Employee under the Plan.

10.2  Construction . The masculine pronoun shall be construed to mean the feminine and
the singular shall be construed to mean the plural, wherever appropriate herein. Headings in this
document are for identification purposes only and do not constitute a part of the Plan.

10.3  Governing Law . The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with
the substantive laws but not the choice of law rules of the state of New York, except to the extent
that such laws have been superseded by federal law.

10.4  Expenses of the Plan . The expenses for establishment and administration of the
Plan shall be paid by the Employing Companies. Any expenses paid by the Company pursuant to this
Section 10.4 and indemnification under Article 9 shall be subject to reimbursement by the other
Employing Companies of their proportionate shares of such expenses and indemnification, as
determined by the Administration Committee in its sole discretion.

10.5  Section 409A . It is intended that the benefits under the Plan are either exempt
from, or compliant with, the requirements of Section 409A, so as to prevent the inclusion in gross
income of any benefits accrued hereunder in a taxable year prior to the taxable year or years in
which such amount would otherwise be actually distributed or made available to the Employees. The
Plan shall be administered and interpreted to the extent possible in a manner consistent with that
intent and the Policy. To the extent that a distribution to an Employee is not exempt from Section
409A, and is required to be delayed by six months pursuant to Section 409A, such distribution shall
be made no earlier than the first day of the seventh month following the Employee s Separation from
Service, and the payments that otherwise would have been paid to the Employee during the six-month
period immediately following the Employee s Separation from Service shall be paid to the Employee
in a lump sum on the first day of the seventh month following the Employee s Separation from
Service, or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter, but in no event later than 90 days
thereafter.

* * * * *

19 

AMERICAN EXPRESS 
SENIOR EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PLAN 
(As amended and restated effective January 1, 2009) 

SCHEDULE A  
SCHEDULE FOR SEVERANCE PAY BENEFITS

20 

</EX-10.30>

<EX-10.34>
 6
 y87970exv10w34.htm
 EX-10.34

exv10w34 

EXHIBIT 10.34 

AMERICAN EXPRESS 
ANNUAL INCENTIVE AWARD PLAN 

(As amended and restated effective January 1, 2011) 

PURPOSE 

The purpose of this Annual Incentive Award Plan (the   Plan  ) is to provide added incentive for
those officers and key executives of American Express Company (the   Company  ) and its subsidiaries
who are in a position to make substantial contributions to the earnings and growth of these
companies and to reward them collectively and individually for performance which contributes
significantly toward such earnings and growth. The companies participating in the Plan (the
  Participating Companies  ) include the Company and such other corporations as may be taking
part in the Plan from time to time pursuant to Article 8.

ARTICLE 1 
ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 

1.1  Administration . The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation and Benefits
Committee (the  Committee ) of the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) as
constituted from time to time, unless and until the Board provides otherwise.

1.2  Authority and Delegation . The Committee shall be responsible for the general
administration of the Plan. It shall also be responsible for the interpretation of the Plan and
the determination of all questions arising hereunder. It shall have power to establish, interpret,
enforce, amend and revoke from time to time such rules and regulations for the administration of
the Plan and the conduct of its business as it deems appropriate. The Committee shall also have
the power to delegate any of its authority under the Plan as allowed by law. Any action taken by
the Committee within the scope of its authority shall be final and binding upon the Participating
Companies, upon each and every person who participates in the Plan and any successors in interest
of such persons, and any and all other persons claiming under or through any such person.

1.3  Indemnification . No member of the Committee shall be liable for anything done or
omitted to be done by him or by any other member of the Committee in connection with the Plan,
unless such act or omission constitutes willful misconduct on his part.

ARTICLE 2 
ANNUAL PERFORMANCE GOALS, PAYMENT GRID AND AWARD GUIDELINES 

2.1  Establishment . As soon as practicable at the beginning of each calendar year, the
Committee shall determine the individual, division/group, Company or other appropriate performance
goals, payment grid and award guidelines for such calendar year. In fixing such goals, grid and
guidelines, the Committee shall receive and consider the recommendations of the Chief Executive
Officer of the Company (the  CEO ), who, in turn, shall have received and

considered the respective recommendations of other appropriate officers and executives of the
Participating Companies.

2.2  Adjustment . If the Committee finds, during the course of and with respect to any
year, that any of the performance goals, payment grid or award guidelines determined as herein
above provided would not be justified for such year in the circumstances, it may in its sole
discretion fix such performance goals, payment grid or award guidelines for such year at such
different levels as it deems appropriate.

ARTICLE 3 
PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN 

3.1  Participation . Those eligible to participate in the Plan for any calendar year
shall include such key executives of the Participating Companies as shall be designated by the
Committee. In designating such persons the Committee shall receive and consider the
recommendations of the CEO, who, in turn, shall have received and considered the respective
recommendations of other appropriate officers and executives of the Participating Companies.
However, the Committee shall have full authority to act in the matter and its determination shall
be in all respects final and conclusive. Further, the Committee shall have full authority to
delegate eligibility determination. Participants shall be designated prior to the beginning of the
year or as soon as practicable thereafter, but new executives or executives whose duties and
responsibilities have been materially increased during the year may be designated participants for
such year at any time during the year. Designation as a participant shall not of itself entitle a
person to receive payment of an award under the Plan. Participants must generally remain in
continuous active employment with the Participating Company (or an affiliate thereof), through the
end of the performance period (calendar-year end) and up until the payment date, and shall also
make progress towards the applicable award goals and shall fulfill the conditions of Article 7.

3.2  Special Awards . The Committee, upon recommendations as provided by Section 4.1,
may also make special awards to a limited number of participants under the Plan. The CEO may also
authorize special awards under the Plan, at any time or times during the year, provided that any
special awards authorized by the CEO shall be reported to the Committee at its next regular
meeting. These special awards shall be made in recognition of outstanding individual achievement.

3.3  Committee Members Ineligible . No member of the Committee shall be eligible to
participate in or receive any awards under the Plan.

ARTICLE 4 
DETERMINATION OF AWARDS 

4.1  Determination of Awards . As soon as practicable after the end of each calendar
year, the Committee shall fix the amount of each award. The Committee shall also have the power to
delegate to the CEO the authority to approve individual awards and award changes for employees
below the Senior Vice President level (below Band 70). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the
Committee shall continue to approve awards for Senior Vice Presidents

2 

and higher (Band 70 and above), and to approve the aggregate awards for all participants in
Bands 35 and above, subject to adjustment for delegated award changes after each February. In
determining the aggregate awards, the Committee may approve the establishment of maximum award
guidelines for employees of a Participating Company, division, business unit or other designated
group, based upon specified company and other applicable organizational performance goals subject
to applicable past limitations. In fixing such awards the Committee shall receive and consider the
recommendations of the CEO who, in turn, shall have received and considered the respective
recommendations of other appropriate officers and executives of the Participating Companies, as to
whether and to what extent the individual, division/group or company performance goals have been
met for such year, and as to where in the range of award guidelines each participant s performance
falls. Individual awards shall then be calculated based on the applicable payment grid, subject to
available pool monies.

4.2  Award Limits . Except for awards payable as a result of a Change in Control
pursuant to Section 6.1, no award to a single participant for any year shall exceed (a) 200 percent
of the Participant s total award guideline for such year, or (b) 200 percent of the participant s
base salary for such year.

ARTICLE 5 
PAYMENT OF AWARDS 

5.1  Payment . Each award, if any, shall be paid on or after January 31st of the
calendar year immediately following the end of the performance period, as soon as practicable after
the amount of the award shall have been determined, or at such subsequent time or times as the
Committee shall determine, but in no event later than 90 days after January 31st of the calendar
year immediately following the end of the performance period. Such payment shall be made in cash
unless the Committee, at any time or from time to time, according to rules and regulations of
general application, provides for a different method of payment, in whole or in part, of awards,
including, but not limited to, the issuance or transfer of securities or other property, including
common shares or other securities of the Company, another corporation or of a regulated investment
company or companies, subject to restrictions and requirements to assure compliance with the
conditions set forth in Article 7 and elsewhere in the Plan and such other restrictions and
requirements as the Committee shall prescribe.

5.2  Effect of Termination, Retirement, Disability and Death . The Committee has the
sole discretion to consider the payment, if any, of an award for a participant in the event of the
participant s termination, retirement, disability, death or other individual circumstances before
the award payment date; provided, however, the payment of an award by reason of the occurrence of
such an event shall still be made at the time specified in Section 5.1. The Committee, upon
recommendation provided by management, will approve to what extent, if any, payment of an award
should be made if termination occurs after December 31, but before the actual payment date.

5.3  Payment in the Event of Death . If any award shall become payable by reason of or
following the death of a participant or former participant, such award shall be payable, at the
time specified in Section 5.1 and in the same manner as if such participant or former participant
were alive, to such beneficiaries of the participant or former participant as he shall have

3 

designated in the manner described herein. If such participant or former participant shall
have failed to designate any beneficiary, or if no such beneficiary shall survive him, then such
payments shall be made to his legal representatives. With the approval of the Committee, a
participant or former participant may designate one or more beneficiaries by executing and
delivering to the Committee or its delegate written notice thereof at any time prior to his death,
and may revoke or change the beneficiaries designated therein without their consent by written
notices similarly executed and delivered to the Committee at any time and from time to time prior
to his death. No such Participating Company is required to pay any amount to the beneficiary or
legal representatives of any former participant until such beneficiary or legal representatives
shall have furnished evidence satisfactory to it of the payment or provision for the payment of all
estate, transfer, inheritance and death taxes, if any, which may be payable with respect thereto.

5.4  Withholding . Any Participating Company required to make payments under the Plan
shall deduct and withhold from any such payment all amounts which its officers believe in good
faith the Participating Company is required to deduct or withhold pursuant to the laws of any
jurisdiction whatsoever or, in the event that any such payment shall be made in securities, shall
require that arrangements satisfactory to such Participating Company shall be made for the payment
of all such amounts before such securities are delivered.

5.5  Deferral of Awards . Upon a deferral of the payment of an award pursuant to a
deferral plan of a Participating Company, the terms of the deferral and the payments thereunder
shall be governed by the provision of such deferral plan. The obligation of any Participating
Company to make deferred payments when due is merely contractual, and no amount credited to an
account of a participant or former participant on the books of any Participating Company shall be
deemed to be held in trust for such participant or former participant or for his beneficiary or
legal representatives. Nothing contained in the Plan shall require any Participating Company to
segregate or earmark any cash or other property. Any securities or other property held or acquired
by any such Participating Company specifically for use under the Plan or otherwise shall, unless
and until transferred in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan, be and at all times
remain the property of such Participating Company, irrespective of whether such securities or other
property are entered in a special account for the purpose of the Plan, and such securities or other
property shall at all times be and remain available for any corporate purpose.

ARTICLE 6 
CHANGE IN CONTROL 

6.1  Effect of Change in Control . If within two years following the occurrence of a
Change in Control (as defined in Section 6.3), a participant experiences a separation from service
(as that term is defined for purposes of Section 409A of the Code) that would otherwise entitle him
to receive the payment of severance benefits under the provisions of the severance plan that is in
effect and in which he participates as of the date of such Change in Control, and the participant
is at Job Band 50 or higher on the date of such separation from service, then such participant
shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 5, be paid, within five days after the date of
such separation from service, a pro rata award under the Plan equal to: (a) the average
award paid or payable to such participant under the Plan (or any other award program of the
Participating Company or one of its subsidiaries at the time of such prior payment) for the two

4 

years prior to the Change in Control (or if such participant has not received two such awards, the
most recent award paid or payable (or target amount so payable if such participant has not
previously received any such award) to such participant under the Plan (or any other award program
of the Participating Company or one of its subsidiaries at the time
of such prior payment));
multiplied by (b) the number of full or partial months that have elapsed during the performance
year under the Plan at the time of such separation from service divided by 12; provided that in the
event such separation from service occurs after the end of the performance year, but before the
payment date, then the multiplier in clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be one.

6.2  Excise Tax . This Section 6.2 shall apply in the event of Change in Control.

(a) In the event that any payment or benefit received or to be received by a participant
hereunder in connection with a Change in Control or such participant s termination of employment
(hereinafter referred to collectively as the  Payments ), will be subject to the excise tax (the
 Excise Tax ) referred to in Section 4999 of the Code, then the Payments shall be reduced to the
extent necessary so that no portion of the Payments is subject to the Excise Tax but only if (A)
the net amount of all Total Payments (as hereinafter defined), as so reduced (and after subtracting
the net amount of federal, state and local income and employment taxes on such reduced Total
Payments), is greater than or equal to (B) the net amount of such Total Payments without any such
reduction (but after subtracting the net amount of federal, state and local income and employment
taxes on such Total Payments and the amount of Excise Tax to which a participant would be subject
in respect of such unreduced Total Payments); provided, however, that the participant may elect in
writing to have other components of his Total Payments reduced prior to any reduction in the
Payments hereunder.

(b) For purposes of determining whether the Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax, the
amount of such Excise Tax and whether any Payments are to be reduced hereunder: (i) all payments
and benefits received or to be received by a participant in connection with such Change in Control
or such participant s termination of employment, whether pursuant to the terms of the Plan or any
other plan, arrangement or agreement with a Participating Company, any Person (as such term is
defined in Section 6.3(a)) whose actions result in such Change in Control or any Person affiliated
with the Participating Company or such Person (all such payments and benefits being hereinafter
referred to as the  Total Payments ), shall be treated as  parachute payments  (within the meaning
of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code) unless, in the opinion of the accounting firm which was,
immediately prior to the Change in Control, the Company s independent auditor, or if that firm
refuses to serve, by another qualified firm, whether or not serving as independent auditors,
designated by the Administration Committee (the  Auditor ), such payments or benefits (in whole or
in part) do not constitute parachute payments, including by reason of Section 280G(b)(2)(A) or
Section 280G(b)(4)(A) of the Code; (ii) no portion of the Total Payments the receipt or enjoyment
of which the participant shall have waived at such time and in such manner as not to constitute a
 payment  within the meaning of Section 280G(b) of the Code shall be taken into account; (iii) all
 excess parachute payments  within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(l) of the Code shall be treated
as subject to the Excise
Tax unless, in the opinion of the Auditor, such excess parachute payments (in whole or in
part) represent reasonable compensation for services actually rendered (within the meaning of
Section 280G(b)(4)(B) of the Code) in excess of the Base Amount (within the meaning of Section

5 

280G(b)(3) of the Code) allocable to such reasonable compensation, or are otherwise not subject to
the Excise Tax; and (iv) the value of any noncash benefits or any deferred payment or benefit shall
be determined by the Auditor in accordance with the principles of Sections 280G(d)(3) and (4) of
the Code and regulations or other guidance thereunder. For purposes of determining whether any
Payments in respect of a participant shall be reduced, the participant shall be deemed to pay
federal income tax at the highest marginal rate of federal income taxation (and state and local
income taxes at the highest marginal rate of taxation in the state and locality of such
participant s residence, net of the maximum reduction in federal income taxes which could be
obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes) in the calendar year in which the Payments
are made. The Auditor will be paid reasonable compensation by the Company for its services.

(c) As soon as practicable following a Change in Control, but in no event later than 30 days
thereafter, the Company shall provide to each participant with respect to whom it is proposed that
Payments be reduced, a written statement setting forth the manner in which the Total Payments in
respect of such participant were calculated and the basis for such calculations, including, without
limitation, any opinions or other advice the Company has received from the Auditor or other
advisors or consultants (and any such opinions or advice which are in writing shall be attached to
the statement).

6.3  Definition of Change in Control . For purposes of the Plan,  Change in Control 
means the happening of any of the following:

(a) Any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )) (a  Person ) becomes the
beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 25
percent or more of either (i) the then-outstanding common shares of the Company (the  Outstanding
Company Common Shares  or (ii) the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting
securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the  Outstanding
Company Voting Securities  provided, however, that such beneficial ownership shall not constitute
a Change in Control if it occurs as a result of any of the following acquisitions of securities:
(i) any acquisition directly from the Company; (ii) any acquisition by the Company or any
corporation, partnership, trust or other entity controlled by the Company (a  Subsidiary  (iii)
any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the
Company or any Subsidiary; (iv) any acquisition by an underwriter temporarily holding Company
securities pursuant to an offering of such securities; (v) any acquisition by an individual, entity
or group that is permitted to, and actually does, report its beneficial ownership on Schedule 13-G
(or any successor schedule), provided that, if any such individual, entity or group subsequently
becomes required to or does report its beneficial ownership on Schedule 13D (or any successor
schedule), then, for purposes of this subsection, such individual, entity or group shall be deemed
to have first acquired, on the first date on which such individual, entity or group becomes
required to or does so report, beneficial ownership of all of the Outstanding Company Common Stock
and Outstanding Company Voting Securities
beneficially owned by it on such date; or (vi) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to
a reorganization, merger or consolidation if, following such reorganization, merger or

6 

consolidation, the conditions described in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 6.3(c) are
satisfied. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur solely
because any Person (the  Subject Person ) became the beneficial owner of 25 percent or more of the
Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities as a result of the
acquisition of Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities by the
Company which, by reducing the number of Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company
Voting Securities, increases the proportional number of shares beneficially owned by the Subject
Person; provided, that if a Change in Control would be deemed to have occurred (but for the
operation of this sentence) as a result of the acquisition of Outstanding Company Common Shares or
Outstanding Company Voting Securities by the Company, and after such share acquisition by the
Company, the Subject Person becomes the beneficial owner of any additional Outstanding Company
Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities which increases the percentage of the
Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by
the Subject Person, then a Change in Control shall then be deemed to have occurred; or

(b) Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease
for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any
individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for
election by the Company s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the
directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a
member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial
assumption of office occurs as a result of either an actual or threatened election contest or other
actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the
Board, including by reason of agreement intended to avoid or settle any such actual or threatened
contest or solicitation; or

(c) The consummation of a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange, consolidation, or
similar corporate transaction involving the Company or any of its direct or indirect Subsidiaries
(each a  Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) the
Outstanding Company Common Shares and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior
to such Business Combination, continue to represent (either by remaining outstanding or being
converted into voting securities of the resulting or surviving entity or any parent thereof) more
than 50 percent of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the
then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the
case may be, of the corporation resulting from Business Combination (including, without limitation,
a corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all
of the Company s assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries); (ii) no Person
(excluding the Company, any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company, a Subsidiary
or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any parent or subsidiary thereof,
and any Person beneficially owning, immediately prior to such Business Combination, directly or
indirectly, 25 percent or more of the Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company
Voting Securities, as the case may be) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 25 percent or
more of,
respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from
such Business Combination (or any parent thereof) or the combined voting power of the

7 

then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election
of directors and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the
corporation resulting from such Business Combination (or any parent thereof) were members of the
Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or action of the Board
providing for such Business Combination; or

(d) The consummation of the sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially
all of the assets of the Company, unless such assets have been sold, leased, exchanged or disposed
of to a corporation with respect to which following such sale, lease, exchange or other disposition
(i) more than 50 percent of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of such
corporation and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of such
corporation (or any parent thereof) entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then
beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and
entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Shares and
Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such sale, lease, exchange or other
disposition in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such
sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of such Outstanding Company Common Shares and
Outstanding Company Voting Shares, as the case may be; (ii) no Person (excluding the Company and
any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or a Subsidiary or of such corporation
or a subsidiary thereof and any Person beneficially owning, immediately prior to such sale, lease,
exchange or other disposition, directly or indirectly, 25 percent or more of the Outstanding
Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be) beneficially
owns, directly or indirectly, 25 percent or more of respectively, the then-outstanding shares of
common stock of such corporation (or any parent thereof) and the combined voting power of the
then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation (or any parent thereof) entitled to vote
generally in the election of directors; and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board
of directors of such corporation (or any parent thereof) were members of the Incumbent Board at the
time of the execution of the initial agreement or action of the Board providing for such sale,
lease, exchange or other disposition of assets of the Company; or

(e) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of
the Company.

ARTICLE 7 
CONDITIONS AND FORFEITURES 

7.1  Conditions . In addition to any other condition that may be imposed by the
Committee, the payment of all awards (or any part thereof) under the Plan shall be contingent on
the following:

(a) The participant or former participant entitled thereto shall refrain from engaging (i) in
any business or other activity which, in the judgment of the Committee is competitive with any
activity of any Participating Company or any affiliate thereof, in which he was engaged at any time
during the last five years of his employment by a Participating
Company or any affiliate thereof; or (ii) in any business or other activity which is so
competitive and of which he shall have special knowledge as the result of having been employed by
the Participating

8 

Company or any affiliate thereof; and from counseling or otherwise assisting any
person, firm or organization that is so engaged;

(b) The participant shall not furnish, divulge or disclose to any unauthorized person, firm or
other organization any trade secrets, information or data with respect to any Participating Company
or any affiliate thereof, or any of their employees, that he shall have reason to believe is
confidential;

(c) The participant will make himself available for such consultation and advice concerning
matters with respect to which he was familiar while employed by any Participating Company or
affiliate as may reasonably be requested, taking fairly into consideration his age, health,
residence and individual circumstances and the total amount of the payments that he is receiving,
and shall render such assistance and cooperation (including testimony and depositions) in respect
of matters of which he shall have knowledge, as may reasonably be requested in any action,
proceeding or other dispute, pending or prospective, to which any Participating Company or
affiliate may be a party or in which it may have an interest. The participant or former
participant shall have no obligation to render any services after he shall have ceased to be an
employee of the Participating Companies and affiliates thereof, except as may be required under
this subparagraph, and the death of the participant or former participant, or the failure to call
upon him for the rendition of services called for under this Section 7.1(c), shall not in any way
affect the right of the participant or former participant or his beneficiary or legal
representatives, as the case may be, to receive any unpaid portion of any amounts payable to him;
and

(d) The participant s employment by any Participating Company, subsidiary or any affiliate
thereof, shall not have terminated as a result of his gross negligence, willful misconduct or poor
performance and he shall not, while employed by a Participating Company, subsidiary or affiliate,
have engaged in conduct which, had it been known at the time, would have resulted, on grounds of
gross negligence or willful misconduct, in the termination of his employment by the Participating
Company, subsidiary or affiliate by which he had been employed.

7.2  Forfeiture . If, in the judgment of the Committee, reasonably exercised, a
participant or former participant shall have failed at any time to comply with any of the
conditions set forth in Section 7.1, the obligation of the Participating Company to make further
payments to such participant or former participant or his beneficiary or legal representatives
shall forthwith terminate, provided that no amount paid prior to the date of any such determination
by the Committee shall be required to be repaid.

7.3  No Assignment . No payment of any award under the Plan shall be subject in any
manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, and
any attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber or charge the same
shall be void. No payment of any award shall be subject to any jurisdictional payment requirement
upon death or termination. No such payments shall be in any manner liable for or subject to the
debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of the person entitled thereto,
except as specifically provided in rules or regulations established by the Committee under the
Plan; and in the event that any participant, former participant or beneficiary under the Plan

9 

becomes bankrupt or attempts to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber or
charge any such payment or a part thereof, then all such payments due him shall cease and in that
event, the Participating Company shall hold and apply the same to or for his benefit or that of his
spouse, children, or other dependents, or any of them, in such manner and in such proportions as
the Committee, with the approval of the chief executive officer of such Participating Company, may
deem proper.

ARTICLE 8 
PARTICIPATING COMPANIES 

8.1  Participating Companies . Any subsidiary that the Committee (based on the
recommendations of the CEO) or the Board has approved as a Participating Company may, with such
approval, become a Participating Company upon delivering to the Committee certified copies of
resolutions duly adopted by its board of directors to the effect that it adopts the Plan and
consents to have the Plan administered by the Committee.

8.2  Withdrawal . Any subsidiary which is a Participating Company may cease to be a
Participating Company at any time and shall cease to be one upon delivering to the Committee
certified copies of an appropriate resolution duly adopted by its board of directors terminating
its participation. If any Participating Company hereunder ceases to be a subsidiary, such
corporation may continue to be a Participating Company hereunder only upon such terms and
conditions as the Company and such corporation shall agree upon in writing. In no event shall the
termination of a corporation s participation in the Plan relieve it of obligations theretofore
incurred by it under the Plan, except to the extent that the same have been assumed by another
corporation pursuant to Section 8.3.

8.3  Successors . Any corporation which succeeds to all or any part of the business or
assets of a Participating Company may, by appropriate resolution of its board of directors, adopt
the Plan and shall thereupon succeed to such rights and assume such obligations hereunder as such
corporation, such Participating Company and the Company shall have agreed upon in writing.

8.4  Definition of Subsidiary . For the purposes of this Article 8, the term
 subsidiary  shall mean any corporation (other than the Company and any non-Participating Company
specifically designated by the Committee) in one or more unbroken chains of corporations connected
through stock ownership with the Company, if the Company directly or indirectly through one or more
such chains owns stock possessing more than 50 percent of the total combined voting power of all
classes of stock and more than 50 percent of each class of non-voting stock of such corporation.

ARTICLE 9 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 

9.1  Amendment and Termination . The Board may amend the Plan in whole or in part from
time to time, and may terminate it at any time, without prior notice to any interested party,
provided, however, that the Plan may not be amended in a manner that would cause the Plan to
fail to comply with Section 409A. The Board may delegate its amendment power to such

10 

individual or
individuals as it deems appropriate in its sole discretion. The foregoing sentence to the contrary
notwithstanding, for a period of two years and one day following a Change in Control, neither the
Board nor the Committee may amend the Plan in a manner that is detrimental to the rights of any
participant of the Plan without his written consent. No amendment or termination shall deprive any
participant, former participant, beneficiary or legal representatives of a former participant of
any right under the Plan as such right exists at the time of such amendment or termination, nor
increase the obligations of any company that is or has been a Participating Company without its
consent.

9.2  No Right to Employment . Nothing in the Plan shall be construed as giving any
person employed by a company which is or has been a Participating Company the right to be retained
in the employ of such company or any right to any payment whatsoever, except to the extent provided
by the Plan. Each such company shall have the right to dismiss any employee at any time with or
without cause and without liability for the effect which such dismissal might have upon him as a
participant under the Plan.

9.3  Other Benefits . The Plan shall not be deemed a substitute for any other employee
benefit or compensation plans or arrangements that may now or hereafter be provided for employees.
The Plan shall not preclude any group, division, subsidiary or affiliate of the Company, whether or
not a Participating Company, from continuing or adopting one or more separate or additional such
plans or arrangements for all or a defined class of the employees of such group, division,
subsidiary or affiliate. Any payment under any such plan or arrangement may be made independently
of the Plan.

9.4  Consent to Actions Taken . By accepting any benefits under the Plan, each
participant, each beneficiary and each person claiming under or through him shall be conclusively
bound by any action or decision taken or made, or to be taken or to be made under the Plan, by the
Company, the Board or the Committee.

9.5  Interpretation . The masculine pronoun includes the feminine, the singular the
plural, and vice versa wherever appropriate.

9.6  Governing Law . The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
laws of the State of New York.

9.7  Section 409A . It is intended that the benefits under the Plan comply with the
requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated and other
official guidance issued thereunder, and the Plan shall be administered and interpreted to the
extent possible in a manner consistent with that intent and the American Express Section 409A
Compliance Policy, as amended from time to time, and any successor policy thereto.

* * * * *

11 

</EX-10.34>

<EX-12>
 7
 y87970exv12.htm
 EX-12

exv12 

EXHIBIT 12

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
COMPUTATION IN SUPPORT OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
( Dollars in Millions )

Included in interest expense in the above computation is interest expense related to the
cardmember lending activities, international banking operations, and charge card and other
activities in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Interest expense does not include interest on
liabilities recorded under GAAP governing accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. The
Company s policy is to classify such interest in income tax provision in the Consolidated
Statements of Income.

For purposes of the  earnings  computation,  other adjustments  include adding the amortization of
capitalized interest, the net loss of affiliates accounted for under the equity method whose debt
is not guaranteed by the Company, the noncontrolling interest in the earnings of majority-owned
subsidiaries with fixed charges, and the interest component of rental expense, and subtracting
undistributed net income of affiliates accounted for under the equity method.

For purposes of the  fixed charges  computation,  other adjustments  include capitalized interest
costs and the interest component of rental expense.

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 8
 y87970exv13.htm
 EX-13

exv13 

For the fiscal year ended December
    31, 2010 

Exhibit
    13  

2010
    FINANCIAL RESULTS

20 

FINANCIAL REVIEW 

65 

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER
    FINANCIAL REPORTING 

66 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
    ACCOUNTING FIRM 

67 

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

68 

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

72 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS 

120 

CONSOLIDATED FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA 

121 

COMPARISON OF FIVE-YEAR TOTAL RETURN TO
    SHAREHOLDERS 

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

FINANCIAL
    REVIEW  

The financial section of American Express Company s (the
    Company) Annual Report consists of this Financial Review, the
    Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion is
    designed to provide perspective and understanding regarding the
    Company s consolidated financial condition and results of
    operations. Certain key terms are defined in the Glossary of
    Selected Terminology, which begins on page 61.

This Financial Review and the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements have been adjusted to exclude discontinued operations
    unless otherwise noted.

EXECUTIVE
    OVERVIEW

American Express is a global service company that provides
    customers with access to products, insights and experiences that
    enrich lives and build business success. The Company s
    principal products and services are charge and credit payment
    card products and travel-related services offered to consumers
    and businesses around the world. The Company s range of
    products and services include:

charge and credit card products;

expense management products and services;

consumer and business travel services;

stored value products such as Travelers Cheques and other
    prepaid products;

network services;

merchant acquisition and processing,
     point-of-sale, 
    servicing and settlement, and marketing and information products
    and services for merchants; and

fee services, including market and trend analyses and related
    consulting services, fraud prevention services, and the design
    of customized customer loyalty and rewards programs.

The Company s products and services are sold globally to
    diverse customer groups, including consumers, small businesses,
     mid-sized 
    companies and large corporations. These products and services
    are sold through various channels, including direct mail,
    on-line applications, targeted direct and third-party sales
    forces, and direct response advertising.

The Company has also recently created an Enterprise Growth Group
    to focus on generating alternative sources of revenue on a
    global basis, both organically and through acquisitions, in
    areas such as online and mobile payments and fee-based services.

The Company s products and services generate the following
    types of revenue for the Company:

Discount revenue, which is the Company s largest revenue
    source, represents fees charged to merchants when cardmembers
    use their cards to purchase goods and services on the
    Company s network;

Net card fees, which represent revenue earned for annual charge
    card memberships;

Travel commissions and fees, which are earned by charging a
    transaction or management fee for airline or other
    travel-related transactions;

Other commissions and fees, which are earned on foreign exchange
    conversions and card-related fees and assessments;

Other revenue, which represents insurance premiums earned from
    cardmember travel and other insurance programs, revenues arising
    from contracts with Global Network Services  (GNS) partners
    (including royalties and signing fees), publishing revenues and
    other miscellaneous revenue and fees; and

Interest and fees on loans, which principally represents
    interest income earned on outstanding balances, and card fees
    related to the cardmember loans portfolio.

In addition to funding and operating costs associated with these
    types of revenue, other major expense categories are related to
    marketing and reward programs that add new cardmembers and
    promote cardmember loyalty and spending, and provisions for
    anticipated cardmember credit and fraud losses.

Historically, the Company sought to achieve three financial
    targets, on average and over time:

Revenues net of interest expense growth of at least
    8 percent;

Earnings per share (EPS) growth of 12 to 15 percent; and

Return on average equity (ROE) of 33 to 36 percent.

In addition, assuming achievement of such financial targets, the
    Company sought to return at least 65 percent of the capital
    it generates to shareholders as a dividend or through the
    repurchase of common stock.

The Company met or exceeded these targets for most of the past
    decade. However, during 2008 and 2009, its performance fell
    short of the targets due to the effects of the continuing global
    economic downturn. The Company s share repurchase program
    was suspended in 2008 and, as a result, the amount of capital
    generated that has been returned to shareholders has been below
    the levels achieved earlier in the decade. Refer to Share
    Repurchases and Dividends below for further discussion of the
    Company s share repurchase activity.

The Company is retaining its on average and over time revenue
    and earnings growth targets. However, evolving market,
    regulatory and debt investor expectations will likely cause the
    Company, as well as other financial institutions, to maintain in
    future years a higher level of capital than they have
    historically maintained. These higher capital requirements would
    in turn lead, all other things being equal, to lower future ROE
    than the Company has historically targeted. In addition, the
    Company recognizes it may need to maintain higher capital levels
    to support acquisitions that can augment its business growth. In
    combination, these factors have led the

20

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

Company to revise its on average and over time ROE financial
    target to 25 percent or more.

In establishing the revised ROE target, the Company has assumed
    that it will target a 10 percent Tier 1 Common ratio.
    The actual future capital requirements applicable to the Company
    are uncertain and will not be known until further guidance is
    provided in connection with certain initiatives, such as
    Basel III and the implementation of regulations under the
    recent United States financial reform legislation. International
    and United States banking regulators could also increase the
    capital ratio levels at which banks would be deemed to be
     well capitalized . Refer to Capital Strategy below.
    The revised ROE target also assumes the Company would need to
    maintain capital to finance moderate-sized acquisitions,
    although the actual magnitude of these transactions cannot be
    determined at this time. If the Company achieves its EPS target
    as well as the revised ROE target, it would seek to return, on
    average and over time, at least 50 percent of the capital
    it generates to shareholders as a dividend or through the
    repurchase of common stock rather than the 65 percent level
    referred to above.

Certain of the statements in this Annual Report are
    forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Refer to the
     Forward-Looking Statements  section below.

BANK
    HOLDING COMPANY

The Company is a bank holding company under the Bank Holding
    Company Act of 1956 and the Federal Reserve Board (Federal
    Reserve) is the Company s primary federal regulator. As
    such, the Company is subject to the Federal Reserve s
    regulations, policies and minimum capital standards.

CURRENT
    ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT/OUTLOOK

The Company s results for 2010 reflected strong spending
    growth and improved credit performance. Throughout the year
    cardmember spending volumes grew both in the United States and
    internationally, and across all of the Company s
    businesses. Cardmember spending levels in 2010 reached record
    levels by the end of the year.

During 2010, the Company continued to see a sharp divergence
    between the positive growth rates in customer spending on credit
    cards and lower borrowing levels, due in part to changing
    consumer behavior and the Company s strategic (e.g.,
    additional focus on charge and co-brand products) and
    risk-related actions. While the offsetting influences of
    stronger billings growth and lower loan balances challenged
    overall revenue growth, the
     year-over-year 
    benefits from improving credit trends have provided an ability
    to invest in the business at significant levels and also
    generate strong earnings. Some of these investments are focused
    on near-term metrics, while others are initiatives focused on
    the medium to long-term success of the Company. These
    investments are reflected not only in marketing and other
    operating expenses, but also involve using the Company s
    strong capital base for acquisitions such as Accertify and
    Loyalty Partner, which were announced during the fourth quarter
    of 2010. Refer to  Acquisitions  below.

The improving credit trends contributed to a significant
    reduction in loan and receivable write-offs and in loss reserve
    levels over the course of 2010 when compared to 2009. Despite
    the reduction in loss reserve levels, reserve coverage ratios
    remain strong. It is expected that the
     year-over-year 
    benefits from improving credit trends will decrease over the
    course of 2011. While the Company invested at historically high
    levels in 2010, it intends to maintain the flexibility to scale
    back on investments as business conditions change and the
    benefits realized from improving credit trends lessen.

Net interest yield declined over the course of 2010. The lower
    yield reflects higher payment rates and lower revolving levels,
    and the implementation of elements of the Credit Card
    Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the
     CARD Act ), which were partially offset by the
    benefit of certain repricing initiatives effective during 2009
    and 2010. The Company expects the net interest yield in the US
    Consumer business to decline, moving closer to historic levels,
    but this remains subject to uncertainties such as cardmember
    behavior and the requirement under the CARD Act to periodically
    reevaluate annual percentage rate (APR) increases.

Despite improvement in parts of the economic environment,
    challenges clearly remain for the Company, both in the United
    States and in many other key regions. These challenges include
    weak job creation, volatile consumer confidence, uncertain
    consumer behavior, an uncertain housing market, and the
    regulatory and legislative environment, including the uncertain
    impact of the CARD Act, of the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall
    Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and of the proceeding
    against the Company recently brought by the Department of
    Justice (DOJ) and certain state attorneys general alleging a
    violation of the U.S. antitrust laws. In addition, during
    2011 the Company will stop receiving quarterly Visa and
    MasterCard litigation settlement payments, and
     year-over-year 
    comparisons will be more difficult in light of the strong 2010
    results. Refer to  Certain Legislative, Regulatory and
    Other Developments ,  Other Information  
    Legal Proceedings  and  Risk Factors  below.

21

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

REENGINEERING
    INITIATIVES

On January 19, 2011, the Company announced that it was
    undertaking various reengineering initiatives resulting in
    charges aggregating approximately $113 million pretax
    (approximately $74 million after-tax), which were recorded
    in the fourth quarter of 2010. The charges for the reengineering
    initiatives include a fourth quarter restructuring charge in the
    amount of approximately $98 million pretax (approximately
    $63 million after-tax) relating to employee severance
    obligations and other employee-related costs.

The $98 million restructuring charge is pursuant to a plan,
    approved by the Company s management in December 2010, that
    resulted in a consolidation of facilities within the
    Company s global servicing network due to reduced service
    volumes as a greater number of routine transactions have
    migrated to online and mobile channels. In addition, the Company
    expects to record further restructuring charges in one or more
    quarterly periods during 2011 relating to these restructuring
    activities in the aggregate amount of approximately
    $60 million to $80 million pretax (approximately
    $38 million to $51 million after-tax). The total
    expected additional charges include approximately
    $25 million to $35 million in costs associated with
    additional employee compensation and approximately
    $35 million to $45 million in other costs principally
    relating to the termination of certain real property leases.

The reengineering activities, in total, are expected to result
    in the elimination of approximately 3,500 jobs (including
    approximately 3,200 jobs relating to the above noted
    restructuring charge). However, overall staffing levels are
    expected to decrease only by approximately 550 positions on a
    net basis (including 400 positions related to specific
    restructuring activities), as new employees are hired at the
    locations to which work is being transferred.

Substantially all of these reengineering activities are expected
    to be completed by the end of the fourth quarter of 2011.

The Company also announced that it expects the reengineering
    charges recorded in the fourth quarter of 2010 and to be
    recorded during 2011 to result in annualized cost savings to the
    Company of approximately $70 million pretax, starting in
    2012. The Company announced that it intends to reinvest a
    portion of such savings into new servicing capabilities and
    other business building initiatives.

During 2008 and 2009, the Company undertook major reengineering
    initiatives that were expected to produce significant cost
    benefits in 2009. These initiatives included reducing staffing
    levels resulting in lower compensation expenses and reducing
    certain operating costs for marketing and other business
    building initiatives. As the Company has previously disclosed,
    benefits related to better than initially forecasted credit and
    business trends for 2009 were utilized to increase spending on
    marketing and other business-building initiatives during the
    second half of 2009, reducing the expected reengineering
    benefits.

ACQUISITIONS

During the course of the year, the Company purchased Accertify
    (November 10, 2010) and Revolution Money
    (January 15, 2010) for a total consideration of
    $151 million and $305 million, respectively. Accertify
    is an on-line fraud solution provider and Revolution Money is a
    provider of secure
     person-to-person 
    payment services through an internet-based platform. These
    acquisitions did not have a significant impact on either the
    Company s consolidated results of operations or the
    segments in which they are reflected for the year ended
    December 31, 2010.

On March 28, 2008, the Company purchased Corporate Payment
    Services (CPS), General Electric Company s commercial card
    and corporate purchasing business unit.

The following table summarizes the assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed for these acquisitions as of the acquisition
    dates:

(a)

An insignificant portion of the
    receivables and intangible assets are also allocated to the USCS
    reportable operating segment.

On December 16, 2010, the Company announced an agreement to
    acquire Loyalty Partner, a leading marketing services company
    known for the loyalty programs it operates in Germany, Poland
    and India. The purchase, which has received regulatory approval,
    is expected to close in the first quarter of 2011. The
    transaction, which values Loyalty Partner at approximately
    $660 million (subject to currency movement and other
    adjustments), consists of an upfront cash purchase price of
    approximately $566 million and an additional
    $94 million equity interest that the Company will acquire
    over the next five years at a value based on business
    performance.

DISCONTINUED
    OPERATIONS

For the applicable periods, the operating results, assets and
    liabilities, and cash flows of American Express International
    Deposit Company (AEIDC), which was sold to Standard Chartered in
    the third quarter of 2009, have been removed from the
    Corporate   Other segment and reported separately
    within the discontinued operations captions on the
    Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. Refer to
    Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
    discussion of the Company s discontinued operations.

22

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

FINANCIAL
    SUMMARY

A summary of the Company s recent financial performance
    follows:

#

Denotes a variance of more than
    100 percent.

(a)

Earnings per common share from
    continuing operations   diluted and Earnings per
    common share   diluted were both reduced by the impact
    of (i) accelerated preferred dividend accretion of
    $212 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, due
    to the repurchase of $3.39 billion of preferred shares
    issued as part of the Capital Purchase Program (CPP),
    (ii) preferred share dividends and related accretion of
    $94 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and
    (iii) earnings allocated to participating share awards and
    other items of $51 million and $22 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

(b)

ROE is calculated by dividing
    (i) one-year period net income ($4.1 billion and
    $2.1 billion for 2010 and 2009, respectively), by
    (ii) one-year average total shareholders  equity
    ($14.8 billion and $14.6 billion for 2010 and 2009,
    respectively).

(c)

Return on average tangible common
    equity is computed in the same manner as ROE except the
    computation of average tangible common equity excludes from
    average total shareholders  equity average goodwill and
    other intangibles of $3.3 billion and $3.0 billion as
    of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company
    believes that return on average tangible common equity is a
    useful measure of profitability of its business.

See Consolidated Results of Operations, beginning on
    page 31, for discussion of the Company s results.

Upon adoption of new accounting standards related to transfers
    of financial assets and consolidation of variable interest
    entities (VIEs) effective on January 1, 2010 (new GAAP
    effective January 1, 2010), the Company was required to
    change its accounting for the American Express Credit Account
    Master Trust (the Lending Trust), a previously unconsolidated
    VIE which is now consolidated. Prior period results have not
    been revised for the change in accounting for the Lending Trust.
    Refer to Note 1 and Note 7 for further discussion.

The Company follows U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles (GAAP). For periods ended on or prior to
    December 31, 2009, the Company s non-securitized
    cardmember loans and related debt performance information on a
    GAAP basis was referred to as the  owned  basis
    presentation. For such periods, the Company also provided
    information on a non-GAAP  managed  basis. This
    information assumes, in the Consolidated Selected Statistical
    Information and U.S. Card Services (USCS) segment, there
    have been no cardmember loans securitization transactions. Upon
    adoption of new GAAP effective January 1, 2010, both the
    Company s securitized and non-securitized cardmember loans
    are included in the consolidated financial statements. As a
    result, the Company s 2010 GAAP presentations and managed
    basis presentations prior to 2010 are generally comparable.
    Refer to  Cardmember Loan Portfolio Presentation  on
    page 54.

Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made
    to conform to the current presentation.

23

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

CRITICAL
    ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
    for a summary of the Company s significant accounting
    policies referenced, as applicable, to other notes. The
    following chart provides information about five critical
    accounting policies that are important to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements and that require significant management
    assumptions and judgments.

RESERVES
    FOR CARDMEMBER LOSSES

Effect if Actual Results Differ 

Description

Assumptions/Approach Used

from Assumptions

Reserves for cardmember losses relating to cardmember loans and
    receivables represent management s best estimate of the
    losses inherent in the Company s outstanding portfolio of
    loans and receivables.

Reserves for cardmember loans and receivables losses are primarily based upon models that analyze portfolio performance and reflect management s judgment regarding overall reserve adequacy. The analytic models take into account several factors, including average losses and recoveries over an appropriate historical period. Management considers whether to adjust the analytic models for specific factors such as increased risk in certain portfolios, impact of risk management initiatives on portfolio performance and concentration of credit risk based on factors such as tenure, industry or geographic regions. In addition, management may increase or decrease the reserves for losses on cardmember loans for other external environmental factors including leading economic and market indicators such as the unemployment rate, Gross Domestic Product (GDP), home price indices, non-farm payrolls, personal consumption expenditures index, consumer confidence index, purchasing managers index, bankruptcy filings and the le
gal and regulatory environment. Due to the short-term nature of cardmember receivables, the impact of the other external environmental factors on the inherent losses within the cardmember receivable portfolio is not significant. As part of this evaluation process, management also considers various reserve coverage metrics, such as reserves as a percentage of past due amounts, reserves as a percentage of cardmember loans and receivables, and net write-off coverage.  

Cardmember loans and receivables are written off when management deems amounts to be uncollectible and is generally determined by the number of days past due. Cardmember loans and receivables are generally written off no later than 180 days past due.  

Cardmember loans and receivables in bankruptcy or owed by deceased individuals are written off upon notification.  

Recoveries of both cardmember loans and receivables are recognized on a cash basis.

To the extent historical credit experience updated for emerging market trends in credit is not indicative of future performance, actual losses could differ significantly from management s judgments and expectations, resulting in either higher or lower future provisions for losses, as applicable.  

As of December 31, 2010, an increase (decrease) in write-offs equivalent to 20 basis points of cardmember loan and receivable balances at such date would increase (decrease) the provision for cardmember losses by approximately $196 million. This sensitivity analysis does not represent management s expectations for write-offs but is provided as a hypothetical scenario to assess the sensitivity of the provision for cardmember losses to changes in key inputs.  

The process of determining the reserve for cardmember losses requires a high degree of judgment. It is possible that others, given the same information, may at any point in time reach different reasonable conclusions.

24

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

RESERVES
    FOR MEMBERSHIP REWARDS COSTS

Effect if Actual Results Differ 

Description

Assumptions/Approach Used

from Assumptions

The Membership Rewards program is the largest card-based rewards program in the industry. Eligible cardmembers can earn points for purchases charged on many card products. Many of these card products offer the ability to earn bonus points for certain types of purchases. Membership Rewards points are redeemable for a broad variety of rewards including travel, entertainment, retail certificates and merchandise.  

Points typically do not expire and there is no limit on the number of points a cardmember may earn. A large majority of spending earns points under the program. While cardmember spend, redemption rates, and the related expense have increased, the Company believes it has historically benefited through higher revenues, lower cardmember attrition and credit losses and more timely payments.  

The Company establishes balance sheet liabilities that represent the estimated future cost of points earned to date that are expected to be ultimately redeemed. These liabilities reflect management s judgment regarding overall adequacy. The provision for the cost of Membership Rewards is included in marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses.

A weighted-average cost per point redeemed during the previous 12 months, adjusted as appropriate for recent changes in redemption costs, is used to approximate future redemption costs and is affected by the mix of rewards redeemed. Management uses models to estimate ultimate redemption rates based on historical redemption statistics, card product type, year of program enrollment, enrollment tenure and card spend levels. These models incorporate sophisticated statistical and actuarial techniques to estimate ultimate redemption rates of points earned to date by current cardmembers given historical redemption trends and projected future redemption behavior.  

The global ultimate redemption rate assumption that drives the Company s balance sheet reserves for expected redemptions by current participants is 91 percent. The Company continually evaluates its reserve methodology and assumptions based on developments in redemption patterns, cost per point redeemed, contract changes and other factors.

The reserve for the estimated cost of points expected to be redeemed is impacted over time by enrollment levels, the number of points earned and redeemed, and the weighted-average cost per point, which is influenced by redemption choices made by cardmembers, reward offerings by partners and other Membership Rewards program changes. The reserve is most sensitive to changes in the estimated ultimate redemption rate. This rate is based on the expectation that a large majority of all points earned will eventually be redeemed.  

As of December 31, 2010, if the ultimate redemption rate of current enrollees increased by 100 basis points, the balance sheet reserve and corresponding provision for the cost of Membership Rewards would each increase by approximately $283 million. Similarly, if the effective weighted-average cost per point increased by 1 basis point, the balance sheet reserve and corresponding provision for the cost of Membership Rewards would each increase by approximately $60 million.

25

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

FAIR
    VALUE MEASUREMENT

Effect if Actual Results Differ 

Description

Assumptions/Approach Used

from Assumptions

The Company holds investment securities and derivative
    instruments. These financial instruments are reflected at fair
    value on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets.
    Management makes significant assumptions and judgments when
    estimating fair value for these financial instruments.

In accordance with fair value measurement and disclosure
    guidance, the objective of a fair value measurement is to
    determine the price that would be received to sell an asset or
    paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
    market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). The
    disclosure guidance establishes a three-level hierarchy of
    inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The
    fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to the
    measurement of fair value based on unadjusted quoted prices in
    active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1),
    followed by the measurement of fair value based on pricing
    models with significant observable inputs (Level 2), with the
    lowest priority given to the measurement of fair value based on
    pricing models with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3).

Investment Securities   

The Company s investment securities are predominantly comprised of fixed-income securities issued by states and municipalities as well as the U.S. Government and Agencies (e.g., Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae). The investment securities are classified as  available-for-sale  with changes in fair value recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income within shareholders  equity on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Investment Securities   

The fair market values for the Company s investment securities are obtained primarily from pricing services engaged by the Company, and the Company receives one price for each security.  The fair values provided by the pricing services are estimated using pricing models where the inputs to those models are based on observable market inputs. The inputs to the valuation techniques applied by the pricing services vary depending on the type of security being priced but are typically benchmark yields, benchmark security prices, credit spreads, prepayment speeds, reported trades and broker-dealer quotes, all with reasonable levels of transparency. The pricing services did not apply any adjustments to the pricing models used. In addition, the Company did not apply any adjustments to prices received from the pricing services. The Company reaffirms its understanding of the valuation techniques used by its pricing services at least annually. In addition, the Company corroborates the prices provided by its pricing
 services to test their reasonableness by comparing their prices to valuations from different pricing sources as well as comparing prices to the sale prices received from sold securities. As of December 31, 2010, all of the Company s investment securities are classified in either Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Refer to Note 3 to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Investment Securities   
    In the measurement of fair value for the Company s
    investment securities, even though the underlying inputs used in
    the pricing models are directly observable from active markets
    or recent trades of similar securities in inactive markets, the
    pricing models do entail a certain amount of subjectivity and
    therefore differing judgments in how the underlying inputs are
    modeled could result in different estimates of fair value.

26

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

FAIR
    VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED) 

Effect if Actual Results Differ 

Description

Assumptions/Approach Used

from Assumptions

Other-Than-Temporary   Impairment  

Realized losses are recognized when management determines that a decline in fair value is  other-than-temporary.  Such determination requires judgment regarding the amount and timing of recovery. The Company reviews and evaluates its investment securities, at least quarterly, and more often as market conditions may require, to identify investment securities that have indications of  other-than-temporary  impairments. The determination of  other-than-temporary  impairment is a subjective process, requiring the use of judgments and assumptions. Accordingly, the Company considers several factors when evaluating debt securities for  other-than-temporary  impairment, including the determination of the extent to which the decline in fair value of the security is due to increased default risk for the specific issuer or market interest rate risk. With respect to 
increased default risk, the Company assesses the collectibility of principal and interest payments by monitoring issuers  credit ratings, related changes to those ratings, specific credit events associated with the individual issuers as well as the credit ratings of a financial guarantor, where applicable, and the extent to which amortized cost exceeds fair value and the duration and size of that difference. With respect to market interest rate risk, including benchmark interest rates and credit spreads, the Company assesses whether it has the intent to sell the investment securities, and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will not be required to sell the investment securities before recovery of any unrealized losses. Refer to Note 6 to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other-Than-Temporary Impairment  

In determining whether any of the Company s investment securities are other-than-temporarily impaired, a change in facts and circumstances could lead to a change in management judgment around the Company s view on collectibility and credit quality of the issuer, or the Company s intent to sell the investment securities, and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will not be required to sell the investment securities before recovery of any unrealized losses. Therefore, it is at least reasonably possible that a change in estimate will occur in the near term relating to other-than-temporary impairment. This could result in the Company recording an other-than-temporary impairment loss through earnings with a corresponding offset to accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately $0.4 billion in gross unrealized losses in its investment securities portfolio which were deemed not to be other-than-temporarily impaired.

Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets  

Defined benefit pension plan (the Plan) assets are measured at fair value, changes in which are included in the determination of the Plan s net funded status which is reported in other liabilities on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets   

The fair value measurements for the Plan assets align with those described under investment securities above. Refer to Note 21 to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets 
     The fair value measurements for the Plan assets contain a
    similar amount of subjectivity as described under investment
    securities above, and therefore differing judgments in how the
    underlying inputs are modeled could result in different
    estimates of fair value.

27

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

FAIR
    VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED) 

Effect if Actual Results Differ 

Description

Assumptions/Approach Used

from Assumptions

Derivative Instruments   

The Company s primary derivative instruments include interest rate swaps, foreign currency forward agreements and cross-currency swaps. Derivative instruments are reported at fair value in other assets and other liabilities on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in fair value are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, and/or in the Consolidated Statements of Income, depending on (i) the documentation and designation of the derivative instrument, and (ii) if the derivative instrument is in a hedging relationship, its effectiveness in offsetting the changes in the designated risk being hedged.

Derivative Instruments   

The fair value of the Company s derivative instruments is estimated by using either a third-party valuation service that uses proprietary pricing models, or by internal pricing models. The pricing models do not contain a high level of subjectivity as the valuation techniques used do not require significant judgment and inputs to those models are readily observable from actively quoted markets. The pricing models used are consistently applied and reflect the contractual terms of the derivatives, including the period of maturity, and market-based parameters such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity indices or prices, and volatility.  

Credit valuation adjustments are necessary when the market parameters, such as a benchmark curve, used to value the derivative instruments are not indicative of the credit quality of the Company or its counterparties. The Company considers the counterparty credit risk by applying an observable forecasted default rate to the current exposure.  

The Company manages derivative instrument counterparty credit risk by considering the current exposure, which is the replacement cost of contracts on the measurement date, as well as estimating the maximum potential value of the contracts over the next 12 months, considering such factors as the volatility of the underlying or reference index. To mitigate derivative instrument credit risk, counterparties are required to be pre-approved and rated as investment grade.  

The Company s derivative instruments are classified in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Refer to Notes 3 and 12 to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Derivative Instruments   

In the measurement of fair value for the Company s derivative instruments, although the underlying inputs used in the pricing models are readily observable from actively quoted markets, the pricing models do entail a certain amount of subjectivity and therefore, differing judgments in how the underlying inputs are modeled could result in different estimates of fair value. In addition, any necessary credit valuation adjustments are based on observable default rates. A change in facts and circumstances could lead to a change in management judgment about counterparty credit quality, which could result in the Company recognizing an additional counterparty credit valuation adjustment. As of December 31, 2010, the credit and nonperformance risks associated with the Company s derivative instrument counterparties were not significant.

28

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

GOODWILL

Effect if Actual Results Differ 

Description

Assumptions/Approach Used

from Assumptions

Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost of an acquired company over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. In accordance with GAAP, goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually at June 30 and between annual tests if events or circumstances arise, such as adverse changes in the business climate, that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value.  

The Company assigns goodwill to its reporting units for the purpose of impairment testing. A reporting unit is defined as either an operating segment or a business one level below an operating segment for which discrete financial information is available that management regularly reviews.  

The goodwill impairment test utilizes a two-step approach. The first step identifies whether there is potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the second step of the impairment test is required to measure the amount of any impairment loss.

Goodwill impairment testing involves management judgment, requiring an assessment of whether the carrying value of the reporting unit can be supported by its fair value using widely accepted valuation techniques, such as the market approach (earnings multiples or transaction multiples for the industry in which the reporting unit operates) or the income approach (discounted cash flow methods). The fair values of the reporting units were determined using a combination of valuation techniques consistent with the market approach and the income approach.  

When preparing discounted cash flow models under the income approach, the Company estimates future cash flows using the reporting unit s internal five year forecast and a terminal value calculated using a growth rate that management believes is appropriate in light of current and expected future economic conditions. The Company then applies a discount rate to discount these future cash flows to arrive at a net present value amount, which represents the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. The discount rate applied approximates the expected cost of equity financing, determined using a capital asset pricing model. The model generates an appropriate discount rate using internal and external inputs to value future cash flows based on the time value of money and the price for bearing the uncertainty inherent in an investment. The Company believes the resulting rate, 11.8 percent, appropriately reflects the risks and uncertainties in the financial markets generally and in the Company s intern
ally developed forecasts.

The Company has approximately $2.6 billion of goodwill as of
    December 31, 2010. The fair value of each of the Company s
    reporting units is above its carrying value; accordingly, the
    Company has concluded its goodwill is not impaired at December
    31, 2010. The Company could be exposed to increased risk of
    goodwill impairment if future operating results or macroeconomic
    conditions differ significantly from management s current
    assumptions.

29

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

INCOME
    TAXES

Effect if Actual Results Differ 

Description

Assumptions/Approach Used

from Assumptions

The Company is subject to the income tax laws of the United
    States, its states and municipalities and those of the foreign
    jurisdictions in which the Company operates. These tax laws are
    complex, and the manner in which they apply to the
    taxpayer s facts is sometimes open to interpretation. In
    establishing a provision for income tax expense, the Company
    must make judgments about the application of these inherently
    complex tax laws.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits   

The Company establishes a liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which are the differences between a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and the benefit recognized in the financial statements.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits   

In establishing a liability for an unrecognized tax benefit, assumptions may be made in determining whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the taxing authority and also in determining the ultimate amount that is likely to be realized. A tax position is recognized only when, based on management s judgment regarding the application of income tax laws, it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination. The amount of tax benefit recognized is based on the Company s assessment of the most likely outcome on ultimate settlement with the taxing authority. This measurement is based on many factors, including whether a tax dispute may be settled through negotiation with the taxing authority or is only subject to review in the courts. As new information becomes available, the Company evaluates its tax positions, and adjusts its unrecognized tax benefits, as appropriate.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits   

If the tax benefit ultimately realized differs from the amount previously recognized in the income tax provision, the Company recognizes an adjustment of the unrecognized tax benefit through the income tax provision.

Deferred Taxes   

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. A valuation allowance is established when management determines that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the benefit of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.

Deferred Taxes   

Since deferred taxes measure the future tax effects of items recognized in the financial statements, certain estimates and assumptions are required to determine whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the benefit of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. In making this assessment, management analyzes and estimates the impact of future taxable income, reversing temporary differences and available tax planning strategies. These assessments are performed quarterly, taking into account any new information.

Deferred Taxes   

Should a change in facts or circumstances lead to a change in judgment about the ultimate realizability of a deferred tax asset, the Company records or adjusts the related valuation allowance in the period that the change in facts or circumstances occurs, along with a corresponding increase or decrease to the income tax provision.

30

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Refer to  Glossary of Selected Terminology  for the
    definitions of certain key terms and related information
    appearing in the tables below.

SUMMARY
    OF THE COMPANY S

FINANCIAL
    PERFORMANCE

(a)

Earnings per common share from
    continuing operations   diluted and Earnings per
    common share   diluted were both reduced by the impact
    of (i) accelerated preferred dividend accretion of
    $212 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, due
    to the repurchase of $3.39 billion of preferred shares
    issued as part of the Capital Purchase Program (CPP),
    (ii) preferred share dividends and related accretion of
    $94 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and
    (iii) earnings allocated to participating share awards and
    other items of $51 million, $22 million and
    $15 million for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

(b)

ROE is calculated by dividing
    (i) one-year period net income ($4.1 billion,
    $2.1 billion and $2.7 billion for 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively) by (ii) one-year average total
    shareholders  equity ($14.8 billion,
    $14.6 billion and $12.1 billion for 2010, 2009 and
    2008, respectively).

(c)

Return on average tangible common
    equity is computed in the same manner as ROE except the
    computation of average tangible common equity excludes from
    average total shareholders  equity average goodwill and
    other intangibles of $3.3 billion, $3.0 billion and
    $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

SELECTED
    STATISTICAL INFORMATION

(a)

As previously discussed, in the
    third quarter of 2010 the definition of
     cards-in-force 
    was changed for certain retail co-brand cards in GNS. The change
    caused a reduction of 1.6 million to reported
     cards-in-force 
    in the third quarter.

(b)

Average basic cardmember spending
    and average fee per card are computed from proprietary card
    activities only. Average fee per card is computed based on net
    card fees, including the amortization of deferred direct
    acquisition costs, plus card fees included in interest and fees
    on loans (including related amortization of deferred direct
    acquisition costs), divided by average worldwide proprietary
     cards-in-force. 
    The card fees related to cardmember loans included in interest
    and fees on loans were $220 million, $186 million and
    $146 million for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. The adjusted average fee per card
    is computed in the same manner, but excludes amortization of
    deferred direct acquisition costs (a portion of which is charge
    card related and included in net card fees and a portion of
    which is lending related and included in interest and fees on
    loans). The amount of amortization excluded was
    $207 million, $243 million and $320 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. The Company presents adjusted average fee per card
    because management believes that this metric presents a useful
    indicator of card fee pricing across a range of its proprietary
    card products.

31

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

SELECTED
    STATISTICAL INFORMATION

(a)

Represents loss provisions for
    cardmember receivables consisting of principal (resulting from
    authorized transactions) and fee reserve components. Adjustments
    to cardmember receivables resulting from unauthorized
    transactions have been reclassified from this line to
     Other  for all periods presented.

(b)

Effective January 1, 2010, the
    Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember
    receivables in International Card Services and Global Commercial
    Services are written off to when they are 180 days past due
    or earlier, consistent with applicable bank regulatory guidance
    and the write-off methodology adopted for U.S. Card Services in
    the fourth quarter of 2008. Previously, receivables were written
    off when they were 360 days past billing or earlier.
    Therefore, the net write-offs for the first quarter of 2010
    included net write-offs of approximately $60 million for
    International Card Services and approximately $48 million
    for Global Commercial Services resulting from this write-off
    methodology change, which increased the net loss ratios and
    decreased the 90 days past billing metrics for these
    segments, but did not have a substantial impact on provisions
    for losses.

(c)

Beginning with the first quarter of
    2010, the Company has revised the net loss ratio to exclude net
    write-offs related to unauthorized transactions, consistent with
    the methodology for calculation of the net write-off rate for
    U.S. Card Services. The metrics for prior periods have not been
    revised for this change as it was deemed immaterial.

(d)

Refer to  Cardmember Loan
    Portfolio Presentation  on page 54 for discussion of
    the GAAP and non-GAAP presentation of the Company s U.S.
    loan portfolio.

(e)

Reflects the new GAAP effective
    January 1, 2010, which resulted in the consolidation of the
    American Express Credit Account Master Trust (the Lending
    Trust), reflecting $29.0 billion of additional cardmember
    loans along with a $2.5 billion loan loss reserve on the
    Company s balance sheets.

(f)

See below for calculations of net
    interest yield on cardmember loans, a non-GAAP measure, and net
    interest income divided by average loans, a GAAP measure.
    Management believes net interest yield on cardmember loans is
    useful to investors because it provides a measure of
    profitability of the Company s cardmember loan portfolio.

(g)

This calculation includes elements
    of total interest income and total interest expense that are not
    attributable to the cardmember loan portfolio, and thus is not
    representative of net interest yield on cardmember loans. The
    calculation includes interest income and interest expense
    attributable to investment securities and other interest-bearing
    deposits as well as to cardmember loans, and interest expense
    attributable to other activities, including cardmember
    receivables.

32

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

CALCULATION
    OF NET INTEREST YIELD ON CARDMEMBER
    LOANS (a) 

(a)

Beginning in the first quarter of
    2010, the Company changed the manner in which it allocates
    interest expense and capital to its reportable operating
    segments. The change reflects modifications in allocation
    methodology that the Company believes to more accurately reflect
    the funding and capital characteristics of its segments. The
    change to interest allocation impacted the consolidated net
    interest yield on cardmember loans. Accordingly, the net
    interest yields for periods prior to the first quarter of 2010
    have been revised for this change.

(b)

Refer to  Cardmember Loan
    Portfolio Presentation  on page 54 for discussion of
    GAAP and non-GAAP presentation of the Company s U.S. loan
    portfolio.

(c)

Refer to  Consolidated Results
    of Operations   Selected Statistical
    Information , footnote (g) on page 32.

The following discussions regarding Consolidated Results of
    Operations and Consolidated Liquidity and Capital Resources are
    presented on a basis consistent with GAAP unless otherwise noted.

CONSOLIDATED
    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010

The Company s 2010 consolidated income from continuing
    operations increased $1.9 billion or 90 percent to
    $4.1 billion and diluted EPS from continuing operations
    increased by $1.81 to $3.35. Consolidated income from continuing
    operations for 2009 decreased $734 million or
    26 percent from 2008 and diluted EPS from continuing
    operations for 2009 declined $0.93 or 38 percent from 2008.

Consolidated net income for December 31, 2010, 2009 and
    2008 was $4.1 billion, $2.1 billion and
    $2.7 billion, respectively. Net income included losses from
    discontinued operations of nil, $7 million and
    $172 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

The Company s total revenues net of interest expense and
    total expenses increased by approximately 13 percent and
    20 percent, respectively, while total provisions for losses
    decreased by 58 percent in 2010. Assuming no changes in
    foreign currency exchange rates from 2009 to 2010, total
    revenues net of interest expense and total expenses increased
    approximately 12 percent and 19 percent, respectively,
    while provisions for losses decreased approximately
    59 percent in
    2010 1 .

The Company s total revenues net of interest expense,
    provisions for losses and total expenses decreased by
    approximately 14 percent, 8 percent and
    14 percent, respectively, in 2009. Assuming no changes in
    foreign currency exchange rates from 2008 to 2009, total
    revenues net of interest expense, provisions for losses and
    total expenses decreased approximately 12 percent,
    7 percent and 12 percent, respectively, in
    2009 1 .

    Currency rate changes had a minimal impact on the growth rates
    in 2008.

Results from continuing operations for 2010 included:

A $127 million ($83 million after-tax) net charge for
    costs related to the Company s reengineering initiatives.

Results from continuing operations for 2009 included:

A $180 million ($113 million after-tax) benefit in the
    third quarter related to the accounting for a net investment in
    the Company s consolidated foreign subsidiaries. See also
    Business Segment Results   Corporate   Other
    below for further discussion;

A $211 million ($135 million after-tax) gain in the
    second quarter of 2009 on the sale of 50 percent of the
    Company s equity holdings of Industrial and Commercial Bank
    of China (ICBC); and

A $190 million ($125 million after-tax) net charge
    related to the Company s reengineering initiatives.

Results from continuing operations for 2008 included:

A $600 million ($374 million after-tax) addition to
    U.S. lending credit reserves reflecting a deterioration of
    credit indicators in the second quarter of 2008;

A $449 million ($291 million after-tax) net charge,
    primarily reflecting the restructuring costs related to the
    Company s reengineering initiatives in the fourth quarter
    of 2008;

A $220 million ($138 million after-tax) reduction to
    the fair market value of the Company s interest-only strip;
    and

A $106 million ($66 million after-tax) charge in the
    fourth quarter of 2008 to increase the Company s Membership
    Rewards liability, in connection with the Company s
    extension of its partnership arrangements with Delta.

1     These
    currency rate adjustments assume a constant exchange rate
    between periods for purposes of currency translation into U.S.
    dollars (i.e., assumes the foreign exchange rates used to
    determine results for the current year apply to the
    corresponding year-earlier period against which such results are
    being compared). Management believes that this presentation is
    helpful to investors by making it easier to compare the
    Company s performance from one period to another without
    the variability caused by fluctuations in currency exchange
    rates.

33

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

Total
    Revenues Net of Interest Expense

Consolidated total revenues net of interest expense for 2010 of
    $27.8 billion were up $3.3 billion or 13 percent
    from 2009. The increase in total revenues net of interest
    expense primarily reflects new GAAP effective January 1,
    2010, which caused the reporting of write-offs related to
    securitized loans to move from securitization income, net in
    2009 to provisions for cardmember loan losses in 2010. In
    addition, total revenues net of interest expense reflects higher
    discount revenues, increased other commissions and fees, greater
    travel commissions and fees, and higher net interest income,
    partially offset by lower other revenue, and reduced net card
    fees. Consolidated total revenues net of interest expense for
    2009 of $24.5 billion were down $3.8 billion or
    14 percent from 2008, due to lower discount revenue, lower
    total interest income, reduced securitization income, net, lower
    other commissions and fees, reduced travel commissions and fees,
    and decreased other revenues, partially offset by lower total
    interest expense.

Discount revenue for 2010 increased $1.7 billion or
    13 percent as compared to 2009 to $15.1 billion as a
    result of a 15 percent increase in worldwide billed
    business and a slightly higher discount rate. The lower revenue
    growth versus total billed business growth reflects the
    relatively faster billed business growth rate of 28 percent
    related to GNS, where discount revenue is shared with card
    issuing partners, and higher contra-revenues, including
    cash-back rewards costs and corporate incentive payments. The
    15 percent increase in worldwide billed business in 2010
    reflected an increase in proprietary billed business of
    13 percent. The average discount rate was 2.55 percent
    and 2.54 percent for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Over
    time, certain repricing initiatives, changes in the mix of
    business and volume-related pricing discounts and investments
    will likely result in some erosion of the average discount rate.

U.S. billed business and billed business outside the United
    States were up 13 percent and 19 percent,
    respectively, in 2010. The increase in billed business within
    the United States reflected an increase in average spending per
    proprietary basic card, partially offset by a slight decrease in
    basic
     cards-in-force. 
    The increase in billed business outside the United States
    reflected an increase in average spending per proprietary basic
    card and basic
     cards-in-force. 

The table below summarizes selected statistics for billed
    business and average spend:

(a)

Refer to footnote 1 on page 33
    relating to changes in foreign exchange rates.

(b)

Captions in the table above not
    designated as  proprietary  or  GNS  include
    both proprietary and GNS data.

(c)

Included in the Global Network
    segment.

(d)

Included in the USCS segment.

(e)

Included in the GCS segment.

(f)

Included in the ICS segment.

34

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

Assuming no changes in foreign exchange rates, total billed
    business outside the United States grew 22 percent in Asia
    Pacific, 18 percent in Latin America, 10 percent in
    Europe and 9 percent in Canada.

During 2009, discount revenue decreased $1.6 billion or
    11 percent to $13.4 billion compared to 2008 as a
    result of a 9 percent decrease in worldwide billed
    business. The greater decrease in discount revenue compared to
    billed business primarily reflected growth in billed business
    related to GNS where the Company shares the discount rate with
    card issuing partners, as well as a slight decline in the
    average discount rate. The 9 percent decrease in worldwide
    billed business in 2009 reflected a decline in proprietary
    billed business of 11 percent, offset by a 7 percent
    increase in billed business related to GNS.

Net card fees in 2010 decreased 2 percent, partially due to
    a non-renewal reserve adjustment in the prior year. Net card
    fees in 2009 remained unchanged compared to 2008 as the decline
    in total proprietary
     cards-in-force 
    was offset by an increase in the average fee per card.

Travel commissions and fees increased $185 million or
    12 percent to $1.8 billion in 2010 compared to 2009,
    primarily reflecting a 19 percent increase in worldwide
    travel sales, partially offset by a lower sales revenue rate.
    Travel commissions and fees decreased $416 million or
    21 percent to $1.6 billion in 2009 compared to 2008,
    primarily reflecting a 28 percent decrease in worldwide
    travel sales, partially offset by higher sales commission and
    fee rates.

Other commissions and fees increased $253 million or
    14 percent to $2.0 billion in 2010 compared to 2009,
    driven primarily by new GAAP effective January 1, 2010
    where fees related to securitized receivables are now recognized
    as other commissions and fees. These fees were previously
    reported in securitization income, net. The increase also
    reflects greater foreign currency conversion revenues related to
    higher spending, partially offset by lower delinquency fees in
    the non-securitized cardmember loan portfolio. Other commissions
    and fees decreased $529 million or 23 percent to
    $1.8 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, due to lower
    delinquency fees reflecting decreased owned loan balances and
    the impacts of various customer assistance programs, in addition
    to reduced spending-related foreign currency conversion revenues.

Securitization income, net decreased $400 million to nil in
    2010 compared to 2009, as the Company no longer reports
    securitization income, net, in accordance with new GAAP
    effective January 1, 2010. Securitization income, net
    decreased $670 million or 63 percent to
    $400 million in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to
    lower excess spread, net, driven by increased write-offs and a
    decrease in interest income on cardmember loans and fee
    revenues. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by a
    decrease in interest expense due to lower coupon rates paid on
    variable-rate investor certificates, as well as a favorable fair
    value adjustment of the interest-only strip.

Other revenues in 2010 decreased $160 million or
    8 percent to $1.9 billion compared to 2009, primarily
    reflecting the $211 million gain on the sale of
    50 percent of the Company s equity holdings in ICBC in
    2009, lower insurance premium revenues and higher partner
    investments which appear as a contra-other revenue, partially
    offset by higher GNS partner-related royalty revenues, greater
    merchant fee-related revenue and higher publishing revenue.
    Other revenues in 2009 decreased $70 million or
    3 percent to $2.1 billion compared to 2008, primarily
    reflecting decreased revenues from CPS, due to the migration of
    clients to the American Express network and lower publishing
    revenues, partially offset by the ICBC gain.

Interest income increased $2.0 billion or 37 percent
    to $7.3 billion in 2010 compared to 2009. Interest and fees
    on loans increased $2.3 billion or 52 percent, driven
    by an increase in the average loan balance resulting from the
    consolidation of securitized receivables in accordance with new
    GAAP effective January 1, 2010. Interest income related to
    securitized receivables is reported in securitization income,
    net in prior periods, but is now reported in interest and fees
    on loans. The increase related to this consolidation was
    partially offset by a lower yield on cardmember loans,
    reflecting higher payment rates and lower revolving levels, and
    the implementation of elements of the CARD Act. These reductions
    to yield were partially offset by the benefit of certain
    repricing initiatives effective during 2009 and 2010. Interest
    and dividends on investment securities decreased
    $361 million or 45 percent, primarily reflecting the
    elimination of interest on retained securities driven by new
    GAAP effective January 1, 2010 and lower short-term
    investment levels. Interest income from deposits with banks and
    other increased $7 million or 12 percent primarily due
    to higher average deposit balances versus the prior year.
    Interest income decreased $1.9 billion or 26 percent
    to $5.3 billion in 2009 compared to 2008. Interest and fees
    on loans decreased $1.7 billion or 27 percent due to
    decline in the average owned loan balance, reduced market
    interest rates and the impact of various customer assistance
    programs, partially offset by the benefit of certain repricing
    initiatives. Interest and dividends on investment securities
    increased $33 million or 4 percent, primarily
    reflecting increased investment levels partially offset by
    reduced investment yields. Interest income from deposits with
    banks and other decreased $212 million or 78 percent,
    primarily due to a reduced yield and a lower balance of deposits
    in other banks.

Interest expense increased $216 million or 10 percent
    to $2.4 billion in 2010 compared to 2009. Interest expense
    related to deposits increased $121 million or
    28 percent, as higher customer balances were partially
    offset by a lower cost of funds. Interest expense related to
    short-term borrowings decreased $34 million or
    92 percent, reflecting lower commercial paper levels versus
    the prior year and a lower cost of funds. Interest expense
    related to long-term debt and other increased $129 million
    or 7 percent, reflecting the consolidation of long-term
    debt associated with securitized loans previously held
    off-balance sheet in accordance with

35

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

new GAAP effective January 1, 2010. Interest expense
    related to this debt was reported in securitization income, net
    in prior periods, but is now reported in long-term debt and
    other interest expense. The increase was partially offset by
    lower average long-term debt. Interest expense decreased
    $1.3 billion or 38 percent to $2.2 billion in
    2009 compared to 2008. Interest expense related to deposits
    decreased $29 million or 6 percent, primarily due to a
    lower cost of funds which more than offset increased balances.
    Interest expense related to short-term borrowings decreased
    $446 million or 92 percent, due to significantly lower
    short-term debt levels and a lower cost of funds. Interest
    expense related to long-term debt and other decreased
    $873 million or 33 percent, primarily reflecting a
    lower cost of funds driven by reduced market rates on variably
    priced debt, as well as a lower average balance of long-term
    debt outstanding.

Provisions
    for Losses

Provisions for losses of $2.2 billion in 2010 decreased
    $3.1 billion or 58 percent, compared to 2009. Charge
    card provisions for losses decreased $262 million or
    31 percent, driven by lower reserve requirements, due to
    improved credit performance, partially offset by higher
    receivables. Cardmember loans provisions for losses decreased
    $2.7 billion or 64 percent, primarily reflecting lower
    reserve requirements during the year, due to improving credit
    performance, partially offset by an increase related to the
    inclusion of the 2010 expense for written-off securitized loans,
    which in 2009 was reported in securitization income, net. Other
    provisions for losses decreased $105 million or
    55 percent primarily reflecting lower merchant-related
    debit balances.

Provisions for losses of $5.3 billion in 2009 decreased
    $485 million or 8 percent compared to 2008. Charge
    card provisions for losses decreased $506 million or
    37 percent, primarily driven by improved credit
    performance. Cardmember loans provisions for losses increased
    $35 million or 1 percent, primarily due to a higher
    cardmember reserve level due to the challenging credit
    environment, partially offset by a lower owned-loan balance.

Expenses

Consolidated expenses for 2010 were $19.6 billion, up
    $3.2 billion or 20 percent from $16.4 billion in
    2009. The increase in 2010 reflected greater marketing and
    promotion expenses, increased cardmember rewards expense, higher
    salaries and employee benefits, greater professional services
    expenses, higher other, net expenses, and increased cardmember
    services expenses, partially offset by lower occupancy and
    equipment expense and lower communications expense. Consolidated
    expenses for 2009 were $16.4 billion, down
    $2.6 billion or 14 percent from $19.0 billion in
    2008. The decrease in 2009 was primarily driven by lower other,
    net expenses, reduced salaries and employee benefits expenses,
    lower marketing and promotion expense and decreased cardmember
    rewards expense, partially offset by greater cardmember services
    expense. Consolidated expenses in 2010, 2009 and 2008 also
    included $127 million, $190 million and
    $449 million, respectively, of reengineering costs, of
    which $96 million, $185 million and $417 million,
    respectively, represent restructuring charges.

Marketing and promotion expenses increased $1.2 billion or
    60 percent to $3.1 billion in 2010 from
    $1.9 billion in 2009, as improved credit and billings
    trends led to increased investment levels in 2010. Marketing and
    promotion expenses decreased $516 million or
    21 percent to $1.9 billion in 2009 from
    $2.4 billion in 2008, due to lower spending levels in the
    first three quarters of 2009, partially offset by higher expense
    in the fourth quarter of 2009.

Cardmember rewards expenses increased $993 million or
    25 percent to $5.0 billion in 2010 from
    $4.0 billion in 2009, reflecting higher rewards-related
    spending volumes and co-brand expense, and a benefit in the
    third quarter of 2009 relating to the adoption of a more
    restrictive redemption policy for accounts 30 days past
    due. Cardmember rewards expenses decreased $353 million or
    8 percent to $4.0 billion in 2009 from
    $4.4 billion in 2008, reflecting lower rewards-related
    spending volumes, partially offset by higher redemption rates
    and costs in Membership Rewards and higher costs with relatively
    lower declines in co-brand spending volumes.

Salaries and employee benefits expenses increased
    $486 million or 10 percent to $5.6 billion in
    2010 from $5.1 billion in 2009, reflecting a 2 percent
    increase in total employee count, merit increases for existing
    employees, higher benefit-related costs, including the impact of
    reinstating certain benefits that were temporarily suspended
    during the recession, higher management incentive compensation
    expense and greater volume-related sales incentives, partially
    offset by lower net reengineering costs in 2010 versus 2009.
    Salaries and employee benefits expenses decreased
    $1.0 billion or 17 percent to $5.1 billion in
    2009 from $6.1 billion in 2008, reflecting lower employee
    levels and costs related to the Company s reengineering
    initiatives, as well as the restructuring charge in the fourth
    quarter of 2008.

Professional services expenses in 2010 increased
    $398 million or 17 percent compared to 2009,
    reflecting higher technology development expenditures, greater
    legal costs, and higher third-party merchant sales force
    commissions, partially offset by lower credit and collection
    agency costs. Professional services expenses in 2009 compared to
    2008 remained flat.

Other, net expenses in 2010 increased $218 million or
    9 percent to $2.6 billion compared to 2009, reflecting
    the $180 million ($113 million after-tax) benefit in
    the third quarter of 2009 related to the accounting for a net
    investment in the Company s consolidated foreign
    subsidiaries, as well as higher investments in business building
    initiatives and higher travel and entertainment costs in 2010,
    partially offset by lower postage and telephone-related costs
    and a charge of $63 million in 2009 for certain property
    exits. Other, net expenses in 2009 decreased $708 million
    or 23 percent to $2.4 billion compared to 2008,
    reflecting the full

36

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

year of settlement payments from MasterCard in 2009 versus two
    quarters in 2008, a $180 million third quarter benefit
    related to the accounting for a net investment in the
    Company s consolidated foreign subsidiaries (as discussed
    further in Business Segment Results  
    Corporate   Other below), a $59 million benefit
    in the second quarter of 2009 from the completion of certain
    account reconciliations related to prior periods, and lower
    travel and entertainment and other expenses due to the
    Company s reengineering activities. These were partially
    offset by a $9 million favorable impact in the fourth
    quarter of 2008 related to fair value hedge ineffectiveness.

Income
    Taxes

The effective tax rate was 32 percent in 2010 compared to
    25 percent in 2009 and 20 percent in 2008. The tax
    rates in all years reflect the level of pretax income in
    relation to recurring permanent tax benefits.

Discontinued
    Operations

Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, was nil,
    $7 million and $172 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax,
    primarily reflected AEIDC and AEB results from operations,
    including AEIDC s $15 million ($10 million
    after-tax) and $275 million ($179 million after-tax)
    of losses related to
     mark-to-market 
    adjustments and sales within the AEIDC investment portfolio in
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

CASH
    FLOWS

Cash
    Flows from Operating Activities

Cash flows from operating activities primarily include net
    income adjusted for (i) non-cash items included in net
    income, including the provision for losses, depreciation and
    amortization, deferred taxes, and stock-based compensation and
    (ii) changes in the balances of operating assets and
    liabilities, which can vary significantly in the normal course
    of business due to the amount and timing of various payments.

For the year ended December 31, 2010, net cash provided by
    operating activities of $9.3 billion increased
    $3.0 billion compared to $6.3 billion in 2009. The
    increase was primarily due to higher net income in 2010,
    increases in non-cash expenses for deferred taxes, acquisition
    costs and increases in accounts payable and other liabilities in
    2010, partially offset by lower provisions for losses and an
    increase in other assets in 2010.

For the year ended December 31, 2009, net cash provided by
    operating activities of $6.3 billion decreased
    $1.5 billion compared to $7.8 billion in 2008. The
    decrease was primarily due to a decrease in deferred taxes,
    acquisition costs and other, fluctuations in the Company s
    other receivables, accounts payable and other liabilities, as
    well as a reduction in income from continuing operations,
    partially offset by changes in other assets.

Cash
    Flows from Investing Activities

The Company s investing activities primarily include
    funding cardmember loans and receivables, securitizations of
    cardmember loans and receivables, and the Company s
     available-for-sale 
    investment portfolio.

For the year ended December 31, 2010, net cash used in
    investing activities of $1.2 billion decreased
    $5.6 billion compared to net cash used in investing
    activities of $6.8 billion in 2009, primarily due to higher
    maturity and redemption of investments and lower purchases of
    investments, partially offset by increases in cardmember loans
    and receivables.

For the year ended December 31, 2009, net cash used in
    investing activities was $6.8 billion, compared to net cash
    provided by investing activities of $7.6 billion in 2008.
    The
     year-over-year 
    change was primarily due to lower proceeds from cardmember loan
    securitizations, decreased maturities and redemptions of
    investments, and an increase in restricted cash required for
    related securitization activities.

Cash
    Flows from Financing Activities

The Company s financing activities primarily include
    issuing and repaying debt, taking customer deposits, paying
    dividends and repurchasing its common and preferred shares.

For the year ended December 31, 2010, net cash used in
    financing activities of $8.1 billion increased
    $3.5 billion compared to $4.6 billion in 2009, due to
    a reduced level of growth in customer deposits during 2010 as
    compared to 2009 and an increase in principal payments of
    long-term debt, partially offset by a net increase in short-term
    borrowings in 2010 and the repayment of preferred shares in 2009.

For the year ended December 31, 2009, net cash used in
    financing activities of $4.6 billion decreased
    $5.8 billion compared to $10.4 billion in 2008,
    primarily due to an increase in customer deposits in 2009 and a
    reduction in cash used in financing activities attributable to
    discontinued operations from 2008 to 2009.

37

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

CERTAIN
    LEGISLATIVE, REGULATORY AND OTHER DEVELOPMENTS

As a participant in the financial services industry, the Company
    is subject to a wide array of regulations applicable to its
    businesses. The Company, as a bank holding company and a
    financial holding company, is subject to the supervision of the
    Federal Reserve. As such, the Company is subject to the Federal
    Reserve s regulations and policies, including its
    regulatory capital requirements. In addition, the extreme
    disruptions in the capital markets that commenced in mid-2007
    and the resulting instability and failure of numerous financial
    institutions have led to a number of changes in the financial
    services industry, including significant additional regulation
    and the formation of additional regulatory bodies. The
    Company s conversion to a bank holding company in the
    fourth quarter of 2008 has increased the scope of its regulatory
    oversight and its compliance program. In addition, although the
    long-term impact on the Company of much of the recent and
    pending legislative and regulatory initiatives remains
    uncertain, the Company expects that compliance requirements and
    expenditures will continue to rise for financial services firms,
    including the Company, as the legislation and rules become
    effective over the course of the next several years.

The CARD
    Act  

In May 2009, the U.S. Congress passed, and the President of
    the United States signed into law, legislation, known as the
    CARD Act, to fundamentally reform credit card billing practices,
    pricing and disclosure requirements. This legislation
    accelerated the effective date and expanded the scope of
    amendments to the rules regarding Unfair or Deceptive Acts or
    Practices (UDAP) and Truth in Lending Act that restrict certain
    credit and charge card practices and require expanded
    disclosures to consumers, which were adopted in December 2008 by
    federal bank regulators in the United States. Together, the
    legislation and the regulatory amendments include, among other
    matters, rules relating to the imposition by card issuers of
    interest rate increases on outstanding balances and the
    allocation of payments in respect of outstanding balances with
    different interest rates. Certain other provisions of the CARD
    Act require penalty fees to be reasonable and proportional in
    relation to the circumstances for which such fees are levied and
    require issuers to evaluate past interest rate increases twice
    per year to determine whether it is appropriate to reduce such
    increases.

The Company has made changes to its product terms and practices
    that are designed to mitigate the impact on Company revenue of
    the changes required by the CARD Act and the regulatory
    amendments. These changes include instituting product-specific
    increases in pricing on purchases and cash advances, modifying
    the criteria pursuant to which the penalty rate of interest is
    imposed on a cardmember and assessing late fees on certain
    charge products at an earlier date than previously assessed.
    Although the Company believes its actions to mitigate the impact
    of the CARD Act have, to date, been largely effective (as
    evidenced in part by the net interest yield for its
    U.S. lending portfolio), the impacts of certain other
    provisions of the CARD Act are still subject to some uncertainty
    (such as the requirement to periodically reevaluate APR
    increases). Accordingly, in the event the actions undertaken by
    the Company to date to offset the impact of the new legislation
    and regulations are not ultimately effective, they could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company s results of
    operations, including its revenue and net income.

Dodd-Frank
    Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the
     Dodd-Frank Reform Act )  

In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank
    Reform Act. The Dodd-Frank Reform Act is comprehensive in scope
    and contains a wide array of provisions intending to govern the
    practices and oversight of financial institutions and other
    participants in the financial markets. Among other matters, the
    law creates a new independent Consumer Financial Protection
    Bureau, which will regulate consumer credit across the
    U.S. economy. The Bureau will have broad rulemaking
    authority over providers of credit, savings, payment and other
    consumer financial products and services with respect to certain
    federal consumer financial laws. Moreover, the Bureau will have
    examination and enforcement authority with respect to certain
    federal consumer financial laws for some providers of consumer
    financial products and services, including the Company and its
    insured depository institution subsidiaries. The Bureau will be
    directed to prohibit  unfair, deceptive or abusive 
    practices, and to ensure that all consumers have access to fair,
    transparent and competitive markets for consumer financial
    products and services.

Under the Dodd-Frank Reform Act, the Federal Reserve is
    authorized to regulate interchange fees paid to banks on debit
    card and certain general-use prepaid card transactions to ensure
    that they are  reasonable and proportional  to the
    cost of processing individual transactions, and to prohibit
    debit and general-use prepaid card networks and issuers from
    requiring transactions to be processed on a single payment
    network. The Company does not offer a debit card linked to a
    deposit account, but does issue various types of prepaid cards.
    The Dodd-Frank Reform Act also prohibits credit/debit networks
    from restricting a merchant from offering discounts or
    incentives to customers in order to encourage them to use a
    particular form of payment, or from restricting a merchant from
    setting certain minimum and maximum transaction amounts for
    credit cards, as long as any such discounts or incentives or any
    minimum or maximum transaction amounts do not discriminate among
    issuers or networks and comply with applicable federal or state
    disclosure requirements.

The Dodd-Frank Reform Act also authorizes the Federal Reserve to
    establish heightened capital, leverage and liquidity standards,
    risk management requirements, concentration limits on credit
    exposures, mandatory resolution plans (so-called  living
    wills ) and stress tests for, among others, large bank
    holding companies, such as the Company, that have greater than

38

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

$50 billion in assets. In addition, certain derivative
    transactions will be required to be centrally cleared, which may
    create or increase collateral posting requirements for the
    Company.

Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act require the
    adoption of rules for implementation. In addition, the
    Dodd-Frank Reform Act mandates multiple studies, which could
    result in additional legislative or regulatory action. These new
    rules and studies will be implemented and undertaken over a
    period of several years. Accordingly, the ultimate consequences
    of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act and its implementing regulations on
    the Company s business, results of operations and financial
    condition are uncertain at this time.

Other
    Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives  

The credit and charge card sector also faces continuing scrutiny
    in connection with the fees merchants pay to accept cards.
    Although investigations into the way bankcard network members
    collectively set the  interchange  (that is, the fee
    paid by the bankcard merchant acquirer to the card issuing bank
    in  four party  payment networks, like Visa and
    MasterCard) had largely been a subject of regulators outside the
    United States, legislation was previously introduced in Congress
    designed to give merchants antitrust immunity to negotiate
    interchange collectively with card networks and to regulate
    certain card network practices. Although, unlike the Visa and
    MasterCard networks, the American Express network does not
    collectively set fees, antitrust actions and government
    regulation relating to merchant pricing could ultimately affect
    all networks.

In addition to the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act
    regarding merchants  ability to offer discounts or
    incentives to encourage customers  use of a particular form
    of payment, a number of U.S. states are also considering
    legislation that would prohibit card networks from imposing
    conditions, restrictions or penalties on a merchant if the
    merchant, among other things, (i) provides a discount to a
    customer for using one form of payment versus another or one
    type of credit or charge card versus another, (ii) imposes
    a minimum dollar requirement on customers with respect to the
    use of credit or charge cards or (iii) chooses to accept
    credit and charge cards at some of its locations but not at
    others. Such legislation has recently been enacted in Vermont,
    and similar legislation has been introduced in other states.

Also, other countries in which the Company operates have been
    considering and in some cases adopting similar legislation and
    rules that would impose changes on certain practices of card
    issuers and bankcard networks.

Any or all of the above changes to the legal and regulatory
    environment in which the Company operates could have a material
    adverse effect on the Company s results of operations.

Refer to  Consolidated Capital Resources and
    Liquidity  for a discussion of the series of international
    capital and liquidity standards published by the Basel Committee
    on Banking Supervision.

CONSOLIDATED
    CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

The Company s balance sheet management objectives are to
    maintain:

A solid and flexible equity capital profile;

A broad, deep and diverse set of funding sources to finance its
    assets and meet operating requirements; and

Liquidity programs that enable the Company to continuously meet
    expected future financing obligations and business requirements,
    even in the event it is unable to raise new funds under its
    regular funding programs.

CAPITAL
    STRATEGY

The Company s objective is to retain sufficient levels of
    capital generated through earnings and other sources to maintain
    a solid equity capital base and to provide flexibility to
    satisfy future business growth. The Company believes capital
    allocated to growing businesses with a return on risk-adjusted
    equity in excess of its costs will generate shareholder value.

The level and composition of the Company s consolidated
    capital position are determined through the Company s
    internal capital adequacy assessment process (ICAAP), which
    reflects its business activities, as well as marketplace
    conditions and credit rating agency requirements. They are also
    influenced by subsidiary capital requirements. The Company, as a
    bank holding company, is also subject to regulatory requirements
    administered by the U.S. federal banking agencies. The
    Federal Reserve has established specific capital adequacy
    guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets,
    liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items.

The Company currently calculates and reports its capital ratios
    under the measurement standards commonly referred to as
    Basel I. In June 2004, the Basel Committee published new
    international guidelines for determining regulatory capital
    (Basel II). In December 2007, the U.S. bank regulatory
    agencies jointly adopted a final rule based on Basel II.

The Dodd-Frank Reform Act and a series of international capital
    and liquidity standards known as Basel III published by the
    Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (commonly referred to as
    Basel) will in the future change these current quantitative
    measures. In general, these changes will involve, for the U.S.
    banking industry as a whole, a reduction in the types of
    instruments deemed to be capital along with an increase in the
    amount of capital that assets, liabilities and certain
    off-balance sheet items require. These changes will generally
    serve to reduce reported capital ratios compared to current
    capital guidelines. The specific U.S. guidelines supporting
    the new standards and the proposed Basel III capital
    standards have not been finalized, but are generally expected to
    be issued within the next 12 months. In addition to these
    measurement changes, international and United States banking
    regulators could increase the ratio levels at which banks would
    be deemed to be  well capitalized .

39

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

The following table presents the regulatory risk-based capital
    ratios and leverage ratio for the Company and its significant
    banking subsidiaries, as well as additional ratios widely
    utilized in the market place, as of the fourth quarter of 2010:

(a)

Refer to Note 23 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of
    FSB s Total capital ratio.

On December 16, 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking
    Supervision issued the Basel III rules text, which presents
    details of global regulatory standards on bank capital adequacy
    and liquidity agreed to by Governors and Heads of Supervision,
    and endorsed by the G20 Leaders at their November 2010 summit.
    Basel III, when implemented by the U.S. banking agencies
    and fully phased-in, will require bank holding companies and
    their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital,
    with a greater emphasis on common equity. While final
    implementation of the rules related to capital ratios will be
    determined by the Federal Reserve, the Company estimates that
    had the new rules been in place during the fourth quarter of
    2010, the reported Tier 1 risk-based capital and
    Tier 1 common risk-based ratios would decline by
    approximately 50 basis points. In addition, the impact of
    the new rules on the reported Tier 1 leverage ratio would
    be a decline of approximately 150 basis points.

The following provides definitions for the Company s
    regulatory risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratio, all of
    which are calculated as per standard regulatory guidance:

Risk-Weighted Assets    Assets are weighted
    for risk according to a formula used by the Federal Reserve to
    conform to capital adequacy guidelines. On and off-balance sheet
    items are weighted for risk, with off-balance sheet items
    converted to balance sheet equivalents, using risk conversion
    factors, before being allocated a risk-adjusted weight. The
    off-balance sheet items comprise a minimal part of the overall
    calculation. Risk-weighted assets as of December 31, 2010
    were $118.3 billion.

Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio    The
    Tier 1 capital ratio is calculated as Tier 1 capital
    divided by risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital is the sum
    of common shareholders  equity, certain perpetual preferred
    stock (not applicable to the Company), and noncontrolling
    interests in consolidated subsidiaries, adjusted for ineligible
    goodwill and intangible assets, as well as certain other
    comprehensive income items as follows: net unrealized
    gains/losses on securities and derivatives, and net unrealized
    pension and other postretirement benefit losses, all net of tax.
    Tier 1 capital as of December 31, 2010 was
    $13.1 billion. This ratio is commonly used by regulatory
    agencies to assess a financial institution s financial
    strength and is the primary form of capital used to absorb
    losses beyond current loss accrual estimates.

Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio    The total
    risk-based capital ratio is calculated as the sum of Tier 1
    capital and Tier 2 capital, divided by risk-weighted
    assets. Tier 2 capital is the sum of the allowance for
    receivable and loan losses (limited to 1.25 percent of
    risk-weighted assets) and 45 percent of the unrealized
    gains on equity securities, plus a $750 million
    subordinated hybrid security, for which the Company received
    approval from the Federal Reserve Board for treatment as
    Tier 2 capital. Tier 2 capital as of December 31,
    2010 was $2.4 billion.

Tier 1 Leverage Ratio    The
    Tier 1 leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Tier 1
    capital by the Company s average total consolidated assets
    for the most recent quarter. Average consolidated assets as of
    December 31, 2010 were $141.3 billion.

The following provides definitions for capital ratios widely
    used in the marketplace, although they may be calculated
    differently by different companies.

Tier 1 Common Risk-Based Capital Ratio  
     The Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio is
    calculated as Tier 1 common capital divided by risk
    weighted assets. As of December 31, 2010, the Tier 1
    common capital was $13.1 billion and is calculated as
    Tier 1 capital less (a) certain noncontrolling
    interests (applicable but immaterial for the Company),
    (b) qualifying perpetual preferred stock and (c) trust
    preferred securities. Items (b) and (c) are not
    applicable for the Company. While this was not one of the
    required risk-based capital ratios for regulatory reporting
    purposes, it was submitted to the Federal Reserve on
    January 7, 2011 as part of its 2011 Capital Plan Review.

Common Equity and Tangible Common Equity to Risk-Weighted
    Assets Ratios    Common equity equals the
    Company s shareholders  equity of $16.2 billion
    as of December 31, 2010, and tangible common equity equals
    common equity, less goodwill and other intangibles of
    $3.6 billion. Management believes presenting the ratio of
    tangible common equity to risk-weighted assets is a useful
    measure of evaluating the strength of the Company s capital
    position.

40

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

The Company seeks to maintain capital levels and ratios in
    excess of the minimum regulatory requirements; failure to
    maintain minimum capital levels could affect the Company s
    status as a financial holding company and cause the respective
    regulatory agencies to take actions that could limit the
    Company s business operations.

The Company s primary source of equity capital has been
    through the generation of net income. Historically, capital
    generated through net income and other sources, such as the
    exercise of stock options by employees, has exceeded the growth
    in its capital requirements. To the extent capital has exceeded
    business, regulatory and rating agency requirements, the Company
    has returned excess capital to shareholders through its regular
    common dividend and share repurchase program.

The Company maintains certain flexibility to shift capital
    across its businesses as appropriate. For example, the Company
    may infuse additional capital into subsidiaries to maintain
    capital at targeted levels in consideration of debt ratings and
    regulatory requirements. These infused amounts can affect the
    capital profile and liquidity levels for American Express 
    Parent Company (Parent Company).

U.S.
    DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY CAPITAL PURCHASE PROGRAM

On January 9, 2009, under the United States Department of
    the Treasury (Treasury Department) Capital Purchase Program
    (CPP), the Company issued to the Treasury Department for
    aggregate proceeds of $3.39 billion:
    (1) 3.39 million shares of Fixed Rate (5 percent)
    Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Shares, Series A, and
    (2) a ten-year warrant (the Warrant) for the Treasury
    Department to purchase up to 24 million common shares at an
    exercise price of $20.95 per share. The Company repurchased the
    Preferred Shares from the Treasury Department at par on
    June 17, 2009, and repurchased the Warrant for
    $340 million on July 29, 2009. Refer to Note 14
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion
    of this program.

SHARE
    REPURCHASES AND DIVIDENDS

The Company has a share repurchase program to return excess
    capital to shareholders. These share repurchases reduce shares
    outstanding and offset, in whole or part, the issuance of new
    shares as part of employee compensation plans.

During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company repurchased
    14 million shares through the share repurchase program. On
    January 7, 2011 the Company submitted its Comprehensive
    Capital Plan (CCP) to the Federal Reserve requesting approval to
    proceed with additional share repurchases in 2011. The CCP
    includes an analysis of performance and capital availability
    under certain adverse economic assumptions. The CCP was
    submitted to the Federal Reserve pursuant to the Federal
    Reserve s guidance on dividends and capital distributions,
    most recently updated in November 2010, and discussed further
    below in  Regulatory Matters and Capital
    Adequacy   Bank Holding Company Dividend
    Restrictions . The Company expects a response from the
    Federal Reserve by the end of the first quarter. The Company
    cannot predict whether the Federal Reserve will approve
    additional share repurchases. No additional shares are expected
    to be repurchased prior to its response. No shares were
    repurchased during 2009 as share repurchases were suspended
    during the first quarter of 2008 in light of the challenging
    global economic environment and limitations while under the CPP.

On a cumulative basis, since 1994, the Company has distributed
    64 percent of capital generated through share repurchases
    and dividends.

During 2010, the Company returned $1.5 billion in dividends
    and share repurchases to shareholders, which represents
    approximately 30 percent of total capital generated.

FUNDING
    STRATEGY

The Company s principal funding objective is to maintain
    broad and well-diversified funding sources to allow it to meet
    its maturing obligations, cost-effectively finance current and
    future asset growth in its global businesses as well as to
    maintain a strong liquidity profile. The diversity of funding
    sources by type of debt instrument, by maturity and by investor
    base, among other factors, provides additional insulation from
    the impact of disruptions in any one type of debt, maturity or
    investor. The mix of the Company s funding in any period
    will seek to achieve cost-efficiency consistent with both
    maintaining diversified sources and achieving its liquidity
    objectives. The Company s funding strategy and activities
    are integrated into its asset-liability management activities.
    The Company has in place a Funding Policy covering American
    Express Company and all of its subsidiaries.

The Company s proprietary card businesses are the primary
    asset-generating businesses, with significant assets in both
    domestic and international cardmember receivable and lending
    activities. The Company s financing needs are in large part
    a consequence of its proprietary card-issuing businesses and the
    maintenance of a liquidity position to support all of its
    business activities, such as merchant payments. The Company
    generally pays merchants for card transactions prior to
    reimbursement by cardmembers and therefore funds the merchant
    payments during the period cardmember loans and receivables are
    outstanding. The Company also has additional financing needs
    associated with general corporate purposes, including
    acquisition activities.

41

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

FUNDING
    PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES

The Company meets its funding needs through a variety of
    sources, including debt instruments such as direct and
    third-party distributed deposits, senior unsecured debentures,
    asset securitizations, securitized borrowings through a conduit
    facility and long-term committed bank borrowing facilities in
    certain
     non-U.S. regions. 

The following discussion includes information on both a GAAP and
    managed basis. The managed basis presentation includes debt
    issued in connection with the Company s lending
    securitization activities, which were off-balance sheet. The
    adoption of new GAAP effective on January 1, 2010 resulted
    in accounting for both the Company s securitized and
    non-securitized cardmember loans in the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. As a result, the Company s 2010 GAAP
    presentations and managed basis presentations prior to 2010 are
    generally comparable. Prior period Consolidated Financial
    Statements have not been revised for this accounting change. For
    a discussion of managed basis and management s rationale
    for such presentation, refer to  U.S. Card
    Services   Cardmember Loan Portfolio
    Presentation  below.

The Company had the following consolidated debt, on both a GAAP
    and managed basis, and customer deposits outstanding as of
    December 31:

The Company seeks to raise funds to meet all of its financing
    needs, including seasonal and other working capital needs, while
    also seeking to maintain sufficient cash and readily-marketable
    securities that are easily convertible to cash, in order to meet
    the scheduled maturities of all long-term borrowings on a
    consolidated basis for a
     12-month 
    period. The Company has $8.9 billion of unsecured long-term
    debt, $5.3 billion of asset securitizations and
    $5.6 billion of long-term deposits that will mature during
    2011. See  Liquidity Management  section for more
    details.

The Company s equity capital and funding strategies are
    designed, among other things, to maintain appropriate and stable
    unsecured debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies,
    Moody s Investor Services (Moody s),
    Standard   Poor s (S P), Fitch Ratings
    (Fitch) and Dominion Bond Rating Services (DBRS). Such ratings
    help to support the Company s access to cost effective
    unsecured funding as part of its overall financing programs.
    Ratings for the Company s ABS activities are evaluated
    separately.

Credit 

Short-Term 

Long-Term 

Agency 

Entity Rated 

Ratings 

Ratings 

Outlook 

DBRS

All rated entities

R-1

A

Stable

(middle)

(high)

Fitch

All rated entities

F1

A+

Stable

Moody s

TRS and rated operating subsidiaries

Prime-1

A2

Negative (a) 

Moody s

American Express Company

Prime-2

A3

Negative

S P

All rated entities

A-2

BBB+

Stable

(a)

In November 2010, Moody s
    revised its ratings outlook for TRS and rated operating
    subsidiaries from  Stable  to  Negative .

Downgrades in the Company s unsecured debt or asset
    securitization program s securities ratings could result in
    higher interest expense on the Company s unsecured debt and
    asset securitizations, as well as higher fees related to
    borrowings under its unused lines of credit. In addition to
    increased funding costs, declines in credit ratings could reduce
    the Company s borrowing capacity in the unsecured debt and
    asset securitization capital markets. The Company believes the
    change in its funding mix, which now includes an increasing
    proportion of FDIC-insured (as defined below) U.S. retail
    deposits, should reduce the impact that credit rating downgrades
    would have on the Company s funding capacity and costs.
    Downgrades to certain of the Company s unsecured debt
    ratings that have occurred over the last several years have not
    caused a permanent increase in the Company s borrowing
    costs or a reduction in its borrowing capacity.

SHORT-TERM
    FUNDING PROGRAMS

Short-term borrowings, such as commercial paper, are defined as
    any debt or time deposit with an original maturity of
    12 months or less. The Company s short-term funding
    programs are used primarily to meet working capital needs, such
    as managing seasonal variations in receivables balances.
    Short-term borrowings were fairly stable throughout 2010;
    however, the Company did reflect an increase in short-term
    borrowings in November and December 2010, due to the
    reclassification of certain book overdraft balances (i.e.,
    primarily due to timing differences arising in the ordinary
    course of business). The amount of short-term borrowings issued
    in the future will depend on the Company s funding
    strategy, its needs and market conditions.

42

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

The Company had the following short-term borrowings outstanding
    as of December 31:

Refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
    for further description of these borrowings.

The Company s short-term borrowings as a percentage of
    total debt as of December 31 were as follows:

As of December 31, 2010, the Company had $0.6 billion
    of commercial paper outstanding. Average commercial paper
    outstanding was $0.9 billion and $2.0 billion in 2010
    and 2009, respectively.

American Express Credit Corporation s (Credco) total
     back-up 
    liquidity coverage, which includes its undrawn committed bank
    facilities, was in excess of 100 percent of its net
    short-term borrowings as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. The
    undrawn committed bank credit facilities were $5.7 billion
    as of December 31, 2010.

DEPOSIT
    PROGRAMS

The Company offers deposits within its American Express
    Centurion Bank and American Express Bank, FSB subsidiaries
    (together, the  Banks ). These funds are currently
    insured up to $250,000 per account through the Federal Deposit
    Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The Company s ability to
    obtain deposit funding and offer competitive interest rates is
    dependent on the Banks  capital levels. During the second
    quarter of 2009, the Company, through FSB, launched a direct
    deposit-taking program, Personal Savings from American Express,
    to supplement its distribution of deposit products through
    third-party distribution channels. This program makes
    FDIC-insured certificates of deposit (CDs) and high-yield
    savings account products available directly to consumers.

During 2010, within U.S. retail deposits the Company
    focused on continuing to grow both the number of accounts and
    the total balances outstanding on savings accounts and CDs that
    were sourced directly with consumers through Personal Savings
    from American Express. These accounts and balances grew during
    the year and financed the maturities of CDs issued through
    third-party distribution channels.

The Company held the following deposits as of December 31,
    2010 and 2009:

(a)

The average remaining maturity and
    average rate at issuance on the total portfolio of U.S. retail
    CDs, issued through direct and third-party programs, were
    19.2 months and 2.5 percent, respectively.

LONG-TERM
    DEBT PROGRAMS

During 2010, the Company and its subsidiaries issued debt and
    asset securitizations with maturities ranging from 2 to
    5 years. These amounts included approximately
    $0.9 billion of AAA-rated lending securitization
    certificates and $2.4 billion of unsecured debt across a
    variety of maturities and markets. During the year, the Company
    retained approximately $0.3 billion of subordinated
    securities, as the pricing and yields for these securities were
    not attractive compared to other sources of financing available
    to the Company.

The Company s 2010 offerings are presented as follows:

(Billions) 

Amount

American Express Credit Corporation:

Fixed Rate Senior Note (2.75% coupon)

$ 

2.0 

Bank Credit Facilities
    Borrowings (a) 

0.4 

American Express Issuance
    Trust (b) 

Floating Rate Senior Notes held by
    Conduit (c) 

2.5 

American Express Credit Account Master
    Trust (d) 

Floating Rate Senior Notes
     (1-month 
    LIBOR plus 25 basis points)

0.9 

Floating Rate Subordinated Notes
     (1-month 
    LIBOR plus 102 basis points on average)

0.1 

Total

$ 

5.9 

(a)

Interest accrues at
     1-month 
    Australian Bank Bill Swap Bid rate plus 29 basis points.

(b)

Issuances from the Charge Trust do
    not include $0.2 billion of subordinated securities
    retained by American Express during the year.

(c)

The Secured Borrowing Capacity
    section below provides further details about this issuance.

(d)

Issuances from the Lending Trust do
    not include $0.1 billion of subordinated securities
    retained by American Express during the year.

43

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

ASSET
    SECURITIZATION PROGRAMS

The Company periodically securitizes cardmember receivables and
    loans arising from its card business, as the securitization
    market provides the Company with cost-effective funding.
    Securitization of cardmember receivables and loans is
    accomplished through the transfer of those assets to a trust,
    which in turn issues certificates or notes (securities)
    collateralized by the transferred assets to third-party
    investors. The proceeds from issuance are distributed to the
    Company, through its wholly owned subsidiaries, as consideration
    for the transferred assets.

The receivables and loans being securitized are reported as
    owned assets on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets
    and the related securities issued to third-party investors are
    reported as long-term debt. Notes 1 and 7 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements provide a description of the
    adoption of new GAAP effective January 1, 2010 and the
    impact on the Company s accounting for its securitization
    activities.

Under the respective terms of the securitization trust
    agreements, the occurrence of certain events could result in
    payment of trust expenses, establishment of reserve funds, or in
    a worst-case scenario, early amortization of investor
    certificates. As of December 31, 2010, no triggering events
    have occurred that would have resulted in the funding of reserve
    accounts or early amortization.

The ability of issuers of asset-backed securities to obtain
    necessary credit ratings for their issuances has historically
    been based, in part, on qualification under the FDIC s safe
    harbor rule for assets transferred in securitizations. In 2009
    and 2010, the FDIC issued a series of changes to its safe harbor
    rule, with its new final rule for its securitization safe
    harbor, issued in 2010, requiring issuers to comply with a new
    set of requirements in order to qualify for the safe harbor.
    Issuances out of the Lending Trust are grandfathered under the
    new FDIC final rule. The trust for the Company s cardmember
    charge receivable securitization (the Charge Trust) does not
    satisfy the criteria required to be covered by the FDIC s
    new safe harbor rule, nor did it meet the requirements to be
    covered by the safe harbor rule existing prior to 2009. It was
    structured and continues to be structured such that the
    financial assets transferred to the Charge Trust would not be
    deemed to be property of the originating banks in the event the
    FDIC is appointed as a receiver or conservator of the
    originating banks. The Company has received confirmation from
    Moody s, S P and Fitch, which rate issuances from the
    Charge Trust, that they will continue to rate issuances from the
    trust in the same manner as they have historically, even though
    they do not satisfy the requirements to be covered by the
    FDIC s safe harbor rule. Nevertheless, one or more of the
    rating agencies may ultimately conclude that in the absence of
    compliance with the safe harbor rule, the highest rating a
    Charge Trust security could receive would be based on the
    originating bank s unsecured debt rating. If one or more
    rating agencies come to this conclusion, it could adversely
    impact the Company s capacity and cost of using its Charge
    Trust as a source of funding for its business.

LIQUIDITY
    MANAGEMENT

The Company s liquidity objective is to maintain access to
    a diverse set of cash, readily-marketable securities and
    contingent sources of liquidity, such that the Company can
    continuously meet expected future financing obligations and
    business requirements, even in the event it is unable to raise
    new funds under its regular funding programs. The Company has in
    place a Liquidity Risk Policy that sets out the Company s
    approach to managing liquidity risk on an enterprise-wide basis.

The Company incurs and accepts liquidity risk arising in the
    normal course of offering its products and services. The
    liquidity risks that the Company is exposed to can arise from a
    variety of sources, and thus its liquidity management strategy
    includes a variety of parameters, assessments and guidelines,
    including but not limited to:

Maintaining a diversified set of funding sources (refer to
    Funding Strategy section for more details);

Maintaining unencumbered liquid assets and off-balance sheet
    liquidity sources; and

Projecting cash inflows and outflows from a variety of sources
    and under a variety of scenarios, including contingent liquidity
    exposures such as unused cardmember lines of credit and
    collateral requirements for derivative transactions.

The Company s current liquidity target is to have adequate
    liquidity in the form of excess cash and readily-marketable
    securities that are easily convertible into cash to satisfy all
    maturing long-term funding obligations for a
     12-month 
    period. In addition to its cash and readily-marketable
    securities, the Company maintains a variety of contingent
    liquidity resources, such as access to secured borrowings
    through its conduit facility and the Federal Reserve discount
    window as well as committed bank credit facilities.

44

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

As of December 31, 2010, the Company s excess cash and
    readily-marketable securities available to fund long-term
    maturities were as follows:

(Billions) 

Total

Cash

$ 

20.3 

(a)  

Readily-marketable securities

7.1 

(b)  

Cash and readily-marketable securities

27.4 

Less:

Operating cash

6.5 

(c)  

Short-term obligations outstanding

0.6 

(d)  

Cash and readily-marketable securities available to fund
    maturities

$ 

20.3 

(a)

Includes $16.7 billion of cash
    and cash equivalents and $3.6 billion held in other assets
    on the Consolidated Balance Sheet for certain forthcoming
    asset-backed securitization maturities in the first quarter of
    2011.

(b)

Consists of certain
     available-for-sale 
    investment securities (U.S. Treasury and agency securities, and
    government-guaranteed debt) that are considered highly liquid.

(c)

Cash on hand for
     day-to-day 
    operations.

(d)

Consists of commercial paper and
    U.S. retail CDs with original maturities of three and six months.

The upcoming approximate maturities of the Company s
    long-term unsecured debt, debt issued in connection with
    asset-backed securitizations and long-term certificates of
    deposit are as follows:

The Company s financing needs for 2011 are expected to
    arise from these debt and deposit maturities as well as changes
    in business needs, including changes in outstanding cardmember
    loans and receivables as well as acquisition activities.

The Company considers various factors in determining the amount
    of liquidity it maintains, such as economic and financial market
    conditions, seasonality in business operations, growth in its
    businesses, potential acquisitions or dispositions, the cost and
    availability of alternative liquidity sources, and regulatory
    and credit rating agency considerations.

The yield the Company receives on its cash and
    readily-marketable securities is, generally, less than the
    interest expense on the sources of funding for these balances.
    Thus, the Company incurs substantial net interest costs on these
    amounts.

The level of net interest costs will be dependent on the size of
    its cash and readily-marketable securities holdings, as well as
    the difference between its cost of funding these amounts and
    their investment yields.

Securitized
    Borrowing Capacity

During December 2010, the Company entered into a
    $3 billion,
     3-year 
    committed, revolving, secured financing facility sponsored by
    and with liquidity backup provided by a syndicate of banks. The
    facility gives the Company the right to sell up to
    $3 billion face amount of eligible notes issued from the
    Charge Trust at any time through December 16, 2013. The
    purchasers  commitments to fund any unfunded amounts under
    this facility are subject to the terms and conditions of, among
    other things, a purchase agreement among certain subsidiaries,
    the note purchasers and certain other parties. This facility
    will be used in the ordinary course of business to fund seasonal
    working capital needs, as well as further enhance the
    Company s contingent funding resources. The borrowing cost
    of the facility includes a fixed facility fee. In addition, the
    drawn balance incurs a weighted average cost of funds to the
    participating banks plus 25 basis points. On
    December 16, 2010, the Company drew $2.5 billion from
    the facility, which was still outstanding as of
    December 31, 2010. The Company incurred an interest cost on
    the drawn amount that was equal to the weighted average cost of
    funds, which was approximately
     1-month 
    LIBOR, plus 25 basis points.

Federal
    Reserve Discount Window

The Banks are insured depository institutions that have the
    capability of borrowing from the Federal Reserve Bank of
    San Francisco, subject to the amount of qualifying
    collateral that they pledge. The Federal Reserve has indicated
    that both credit and charge card receivables are a form of
    qualifying collateral for secured borrowing made through the
    discount window. Whether specific assets will be considered
    qualifying collateral for secured borrowings made through the
    discount window, and the amount that may be borrowed against the
    collateral, remains in the discretion of the Federal Reserve.

The Company had approximately $32.5 billion as of
    December 31, 2010, in U.S. credit card loans and
    charge card receivables that could be sold over time through its
    existing securitization trusts, or pledged in return for secured
    borrowings to provide further liquidity, subject in each case to
    applicable market conditions and eligibility criteria.

45

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

Committed
    Bank Credit Facilities

The Company maintained committed bank credit facilities as of
    December 31, 2010, as follows:

(a)

Does not include the
    $3.0 billion Secured Borrowing Capacity described above of
    which $2.5 billion was drawn as of December 31, 2010.

(b)

Committed lines were supplied by 32
    financial institutions as of year end.

The Company s committed facilities expire as follows:

The availability of the credit lines is subject to the
    Company s compliance with certain financial covenants,
    including the maintenance by the Company of consolidated
    tangible net worth of at least $4.1 billion, the
    maintenance by Credco of a 1.25 ratio of combined earnings and
    fixed charges to fixed charges, and the compliance by the Banks
    with applicable regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. As of
    December 31, 2010, the Company s consolidated tangible
    net worth was approximately $13.1 billion, Credco s
    ratio of combined earnings and fixed charges to fixed charges
    was 1.54 and Centurion Bank and FSB each exceeded their
    regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. The drawn balance of
    $4.1 billion as of December 31, 2010 was used to fund
    the Company s business activities in the normal course. The
    remaining capacity of the facilities mainly served to further
    enhance the Company s contingent funding resources.

The Company s committed bank credit facilities do not
    contain material adverse change clauses, which might otherwise
    preclude borrowing under the credit facilities. The facilities
    may not be terminated should there be a change in the
    Company s credit rating.

In consideration of all the funding sources described above, the
    Company believes it would have access to liquidity to satisfy
    all maturing long-term funding obligations for at least a
     12-month 
    period in the event that access to the secured and unsecured
    fixed income capital markets is completely interrupted for that
    length of time. These events are not considered likely to occur.

Parent
    Company Funding

Parent Company long-term debt outstanding was $10.3 billion
    and $10.2 billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively.

The Parent Company is authorized to issue commercial paper. This
    program is supported by a $0.8 billion multi-purpose
    committed bank credit facility. The credit facility will expire
    in 2012. There was no Parent Company commercial paper
    outstanding during 2010 and 2009 and no borrowings have been
    made under its bank credit facility.

OFF-BALANCE
    SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

The Company has identified both on and off-balance sheet
    transactions, arrangements, obligations and other relationships
    that may have a material current or future effect on its
    financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of
    operations, or liquidity and capital resources.

46

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

CONTRACTUAL
    OBLIGATIONS

The table below identifies transactions that represent
    contractually committed future obligations of the Company.
    Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods and
    services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company
    and that specify significant terms, including: fixed or minimum
    quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price
    provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.

(a)

The above table excludes
    approximately $1.4 billion of tax liabilities that have
    been recorded in accordance with GAAP governing the accounting
    for uncertainty in income taxes as inherent complexities and the
    number of tax years currently open for examination in multiple
    jurisdictions do not permit reasonable estimates of payments, if
    any, to be made over a range of years.

(b)

Estimated interest payments were
    calculated using the effective interest rate in place as of
    December 31, 2010, and reflects the effect of existing
    interest rate swaps. Actual cash flows may differ from estimated
    payments.

(c)

As of December 31, 2010, there
    were no minimum required contributions, and no contributions are
    currently planned, for the U.S. American Express Retirement
    Plan. For the U.S. American Express Supplemental Retirement Plan
    and  non-U.S. 
    defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans,
    contributions in 2011 are anticipated to be approximately
    $69 million, and this amount has been included within other
    long-term liabilities. Remaining obligations under defined
    benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans aggregating
    $633 million have not been included in the table above as
    the timing of such obligations is not determinable.
    Additionally, other long-term liabilities do not include
    $4.5 billion of Membership Rewards liabilities, which are
    not considered long-term liabilities as cardmembers in good
    standing can redeem points immediately, without restrictions,
    and because the timing of point redemption is not determinable.

(d)

The purchase obligation amounts
    represent non-cancelable minimum contractual obligations by
    period under contracts that were in effect as of
    December 31, 2010. Termination fees are included in these
    amounts.

The Company also has certain contingent obligations to make
    payments under contractual agreements entered into as part of
    the ongoing operation of the Company s business, primarily
    with co-brand partners. The contingent obligations under such
    arrangements were approximately $7.5 billion as of
    December 31, 2010.

In addition to the contractual obligations noted above, the
    Company has off-balance sheet arrangements that include
    guarantees, retained interests in structured investments,
    unconsolidated variable interest entities and other off-balance
    sheet arrangements as more fully described below.

GUARANTEES

The Company s principal guarantees are associated with
    cardmember services to enhance the value of owning an American
    Express card. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had
    guarantees totaling approximately $68 billion related to
    cardmember protection plans, as well as other guarantees in the
    ordinary course of business that are within the scope of GAAP
    governing the accounting for guarantees. Refer to Note 13
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion
    regarding the Company s guarantees.

CERTAIN
    OTHER OFF-BALANCE SHEET 
    ARRANGEMENTS

As of December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately
    $226 billion of unused credit available to cardmembers as
    part of established lending product agreements. Total unused
    credit available to cardmembers does not represent potential
    future cash requirements, as a significant portion of this
    unused credit will likely not be drawn. The Company s
    charge card products have no pre-set limit and, therefore, are
    not reflected in unused credit available to cardmembers.

Refer to Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
    for discussion regarding the Company s other off-balance
    sheet arrangements.

47

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

RISK
    MANAGEMENT

GOVERNANCE

The Audit and Risk Committee of the Board approves the
    Company s Enterprise-wide Risk Management Policy and all
    its subordinate risk policies. The Enterprise-wide Risk
    Management Policy defines risk management objectives, risk
    appetite, risk limits and escalation triggers, and establishes
    the governance structure for managing risk. The Policy focuses
    on the major risks that are relevant to the Company given its
    business model   credit risk (individual and
    institutional), operational risk, funding and liquidity risk,
    market risk and reputational risk. Internal management
    committees, including the Enterprise Risk Management Committee
    (ERMC), chaired by the Company s Chief Risk Officer, and
    the Asset-Liability Committee (ALCO), chaired by the
    Company s Chief Financial Officer, are responsible for
    implementing the Policy across the Company. Additionally, in
    2010, the Risk Management organization developed a group to
    independently validate models used to manage the Company s
    risk.

CREDIT
    RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS

Credit risk is defined as loss due to obligor or counterparty
    default. Credit risks in the Company are divided into two broad
    categories: individual and institutional. Each has distinct risk
    management tools and metrics. Business units that create
    individual or institutional credit risk exposures of significant
    importance are supported by dedicated risk management teams,
    each led by a Chief Credit Officer. To preserve independence,
    Chief Credit Officers for all business units have a solid line
    reporting relationship to the Company s Chief Risk Officer.

INDIVIDUAL
    CREDIT RISK

Individual credit risk arises principally from consumer and
    small business charge cards, credit cards, lines of credit,
    loans and prepaid products. These portfolios consist of millions
    of customers across multiple geographies, occupations,
    industries and levels of net worth. The Company benefits from
    the high-quality profile of its customers, which is driven by
    brand, premium customer servicing, product features and risk
    management capabilities which span underwriting, customer
    management and collections. Externally, the risk in these
    portfolios is correlated with broad economic trends, such as
    unemployment rates, GDP growth, and home values, which can
    affect customer liquidity.

The business unit leaders and their embedded Chief Credit
    Officers take the lead in managing this process. These Chief
    Credit Officers are guided by the Individual Credit Policy
    Committee which is responsible for implementation and
    enforcement of the Individual Credit Risk Policy. This policy is
    further supported by subordinate policies and operating manuals
    covering decision logic and processes of credit extension,
    including prospecting, new account approvals, authorizations,
    line management and collections. The subordinate risk policies
    and operating manuals are designed to assure consistent
    application of risk management principles and standardized
    reporting of asset quality and loss recognition.

Individual credit risk management is supported by sophisticated
    proprietary scoring and decision-making models that use the most
     up-to-date 
    proprietary information on prospects and customers, such as
    spending and payment history, data feeds from credit bureaus and
    mortgage information. Additional data, such as new commercial
    variables, were integrated into the Company s models in the
    early stages of the recent economic downturn to further mitigate
    small business risk. The Company has developed data-driven
    economic decision logic for each customer interaction to better
    serve its customers.

INSTITUTIONAL
    CREDIT RISK

Institutional credit risk arises principally within the
    Company s Global Corporate Card Services, Merchant Services
    and Network Services, prepaid services, foreign exchange
    services businesses, and investment activities. Unlike
    individual credit, institutional credit risk is characterized by
    a lower loss frequency but higher severity. It is affected both
    by general economic conditions and by customer-specific events.
    The absence of large losses in any given year or over several
    years is not necessarily representative of the level of risk of
    institutional portfolios, given the infrequency of loss events
    in such portfolios.

Similar to Individual Credit Risk, business units taking
    institutional risks are supported by Chief Credit Officers.
    These officers are guided by the Institutional Risk Management
    Committee (IRMC) which is responsible for implementation and
    enforcement of the Policy and for providing guidance to the
    credit officers of each business unit with substantial
    institutional credit risk exposures. The committee, along with
    business unit Chief Credit Officers, make investment decisions
    in core risk capabilities, ensure proper implementation of the
    underwriting standards and contractual rights of risk
    mitigation, monitor risk exposures, and determine risk
    mitigation actions. The IRMC formally reviews large
    institutional exposures to ensure compliance with ERMC
    guidelines and procedures and escalates them to the ERMC as
    appropriate. At the same time, the IRMC provides guidance to
    business unit risk teams to optimize risk-adjusted returns on
    capital. A company-wide risk rating utility and a specialized
    airline risk group provide risk assessment of institutional
    obligors.

MARKET
    RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS

Market risk is the risk to earnings or value resulting from
    movements in market prices. The Company s market risk
    exposure is primarily generated by:

Interest rate risk in its card, insurance and Travelers Cheque
    businesses, as well as its investment portfolios; and

Foreign exchange risk in its operations outside the United
    States.

48

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

Market Risk limits and escalation triggers within
    the Market Risk Policy are approved by ALCO and by the ERMC.
    Market risk is centrally monitored for compliance with policy
    and limits by the Market Risk Committee, which reports into the
    ALCO and is chaired by the Chief Market Risk Officer. Market
    risk management is also guided by policies covering the use of
    derivative financial instruments, funding and liquidity and
    investments.

The Company s market exposures are in large part
    by-products of the delivery of its products and services.
    Interest rate risk arises through the funding of cardmember
    receivables and fixed-rate loans with variable-rate borrowings
    as well as through the risk to net interest margin from changes
    in the relationship between benchmark rates such as Prime and
    LIBOR.

Interest rate exposure within the Company s charge card and
    fixed-rate lending products is managed by varying the proportion
    of total funding provided by short-term and variable-rate debt
    and deposits compared to fixed-rate debt and deposits. In
    addition, interest rate swaps are used from time to time to
    effectively convert fixed-rate debt to variable-rate or to
    convert variable-rate debt to fixed-rate. The Company may change
    the mix between variable-rate and fixed-rate funding based on
    changes in business volumes and mix, among other factors.

The Company does not engage in derivative financial instruments
    for trading purposes. Refer to Note 12 to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for further discussion of the
    Company s derivative financial instruments.

The detrimental effect on the Company s annual pretax
    earnings of a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in
    interest rates would be approximately $149 million
    ($97 million related to the U.S. dollar), based on the
    2010 year-end positions. This effect, which is calculated
    using a static asset liability gapping model, is primarily
    determined by the volume of variable-rate funding of charge card
    and fixed-rate lending products for which the interest rate
    exposure is not managed by derivative financial instruments. As
    of year end 2010, the percentage of worldwide charge card
    accounts receivable and loans that were deemed to be fixed rate
    was 65 percent, or $63.7 billion, with the remaining
    35 percent, or $34.3 billion, deemed to be variable
    rate.

The Company is also subject to market risk from changes in the
    relationship between the benchmark Prime rate that determines
    the yield on its variable-rate lending receivables and the
    benchmark LIBOR rate that determines the effective interest cost
    on a significant portion of its outstanding debt. Differences in
    the rate of change of these two indices, commonly referred to as
    basis risk, would impact the Company s variable-rate
    U.S. lending net interest margins because the Company
    borrows at rates based on LIBOR but lends to its customers based
    on the Prime rate. The detrimental effect on the Company s
    pretax earnings of a hypothetical 10 basis point decrease
    in the spread between Prime and 1 month LIBOR over the next
    12 months is estimated to be $34 million. The Company
    currently has approximately $34.3 billion of Prime-based,
    variable-rate U.S. lending receivables that are funded with
    LIBOR-indexed debt, including asset securitizations.

Foreign exchange risk is generated by cardmember cross-currency
    charges, foreign subsidiary equity and foreign currency earnings
    in units outside the United States. The Company s foreign
    exchange risk is managed primarily by entering into agreements
    to buy and sell currencies on a spot basis or by hedging this
    market exposure to the extent it is economically justified
    through various means, including the use of derivative financial
    instruments such as foreign exchange forward and cross-currency
    swap contracts, which can help  lock in  the value of
    the Company s exposure to specific currencies.

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, foreign currency
    derivative instruments with total notional amounts of
    approximately $22 billion and $19 billion,
    respectively, were outstanding. Derivative hedging activities
    related to cross-currency charges, balance sheet exposures and
    foreign currency earnings generally do not qualify for hedge
    accounting; however, derivative hedging activities related to
    translation exposure of foreign subsidiary equity generally do.

With respect to cross-currency charges and balance sheet
    exposures, including related foreign exchange forward contracts
    outstanding, the effect on the Company s earnings of a
    hypothetical 10 percent change in the value of the
    U.S. dollar would be immaterial as of December 31,
    2010. With respect to earnings denominated in foreign
    currencies, the adverse impact on pretax income of a
    hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the
    U.S. dollar related to anticipated overseas operating
    results for the next 12 months would be approximately
    $152 million as of December 31, 2010. With respect to
    translation exposure of foreign subsidiary equity, including
    related foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding, a
    hypothetical 10 percent strengthening in the
    U.S. dollar would result in an immaterial reduction in
    equity as of December 31, 2010.

The actual impact of interest rate and foreign exchange rate
    changes will depend on, among other factors, the timing of rate
    changes, the extent to which different rates do not move in the
    same direction or in the same direction to the same degree, and
    changes in the volume and mix of the Company s businesses.

FUNDING  
    LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT 
    PROCESS

Liquidity risk is defined as the inability of the Company to
    meet its ongoing financial and business obligations as they
    become due at a reasonable cost. General principles and the
    overall framework for managing liquidity risk across the Company
    are defined in the Liquidity Risk Policy approved by the ALCO
    and Audit and Risk Committee of the Board. Liquidity risk is
    centrally managed by the Funding and Liquidity Committee, which
    reports into the ALCO. The Company s liquidity objective is
    to maintain access to a diverse set of cash, readily-marketable
    securities and contingent sources of liquidity, such that the
    Company can continuously meet

49

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

expected future financing obligations and business requirements,
    even in the event it is unable to raise new funds under its
    regular funding programs. The Company balances the trade-offs
    between maintaining too much liquidity, which can be costly and
    limit financial flexibility, and having inadequate liquidity,
    which may result in financial distress during a liquidity event.

Liquidity risk is managed both at an aggregate company level and
    at the major legal entities in order to ensure that sufficient
    funding and liquidity resources are available in the amount and
    in the location needed in a stress event. The Funding and
    Liquidity Committee reviews the forecasts of the Company s
    aggregate and subsidiary cash positions and financing
    requirements, approves the funding plans designed to satisfy
    those requirements under normal conditions, establishes
    guidelines to identify the amount of liquidity resources
    required and monitors positions and determines any actions to be
    taken. Liquidity planning also takes into account operating cash
    flexibilities.

OPERATIONAL
    RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS

The Company defines operational risk as the risk of not
    achieving business objectives due to inadequate or failed
    processes or information systems, human error or the external
    environment (i.e., natural disasters) including losses due to
    failures to comply with laws and regulations. Operational risk
    is inherent in all business activities and can impact an
    organization through direct or indirect financial loss, brand
    damage, customer dissatisfaction, or legal and regulatory
    penalties.

The operational risk governance and the overall framework for
    managing operational risk across the Company are defined in the
    Operational Risk Policy approved by the Audit and Risk Committee
    of the Board of Directors. The Operational Risk Management
    Committee (ORMC) coordinates and oversees the operational risk
    mitigation efforts by Lead Operational Risk Officers in the
    business units and staff groups supported by the control groups.

In order to appropriately measure operational risk, the Company
    has developed a comprehensive operational risk framework. This
    framework assesses (i) risk events; (ii) root causes;
    (iii) impact and (iv) accountability. The impact on
    the Company is assessed from a financial, brand, regulatory and
    legal perspective. The operational risk model also assesses the
    frequency and likelihood that events may occur again so that the
    appropriate mitigation steps may be taken.

Additionally, the Company uses an operational risk framework to
    identify, measure, monitor and report inherent and emerging
    operational risks. This framework, supervised by the ORMC,
    consists of (a) operational risk event capture,
    (b) project office to coordinate control enhancements,
    (c) key risk indicators, and (d) process and
    entity-level risk self-assessments. The process risk
    self-assessment methodology is used to facilitate compliance
    with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and is also
    used for non-financial operational risk self-assessments. During
    the entity risk self-assessment, senior leaders identify key
    operational risks in a business unit or staff group and
    determine the Company s risk mitigation plans.

Managing operational risk is an important priority for the
    Company, and projects and investments are underway to increase
    operational risk management effectiveness, which will benefit
    both shareholders and customers.

REPUTATIONAL
    RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS

The Company defines reputational risk as the risk that negative
    publicity regarding the Company s products, services,
    business practices, management, clients and partners, whether
    true or not, could cause a decline in the customer base, costly
    litigation, or revenue reductions.

The Company views protecting its reputation as core to its
    vision of becoming the world s most respected service brand
    and fundamental to its long-term success.

General principles and the overall framework for managing
    reputational risk across the Company are defined in the
    Reputational Risk Management Policy. The Reputational Risk
    Management Committee (RRMC) is responsible for implementation
    and adherence to this policy, and for performing periodic
    assessment of the Company s reputation and brand health
    based on internal and external assessments.

Business leaders across the Company are responsible for ensuring
    that reputation risk implications of transactions, business
    activities and management practices are appropriately considered
    and relevant subject matter experts are engaged as needed.

50

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

BUSINESS
    SEGMENT RESULTS

The Company is a global service company principally engaged in
    businesses comprising four reportable operating segments:
    U.S. Card Services (USCS), International Card Services
    (ICS), Global Commercial Services (GCS) and Global
    Network   Merchant Services (GNMS).

The Company considers a combination of factors when evaluating
    the composition of its reportable operating segments, including
    the results reviewed by the chief operating decision maker,
    economic characteristics, products and services offered, classes
    of customers, product distribution channels, geographic
    considerations (primarily U.S. versus
     non-U.S.) 
    and regulatory environment considerations. Refer to Note 25
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
    discussion of products and services by segment.

Results of the business segments essentially treat each segment
    as a stand-alone business. The management reporting process that
    derives these results allocates income and expense using various
    methodologies as described below.

Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company completed
    its conversion to a new general ledger platform. This conversion
    enabled the Company to streamline its ledger reporting unit
    structure, resulting in a reconfiguration of intercompany
    accounts. These changes have the effect of altering intercompany
    balances among segments, thus altering reported total segment
    assets. Total segment assets as of December 31, 2010 and
    2009 presented below reflect the changes described above. This
    conversion has no impact on segment results, segment capital or
    return on segment capital metrics.

Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, the Company made changes
    to the manner in which it allocates capital and the related
    interest expense charged to its reportable operating segments.
    The changes reflect modifications in allocation methodology that
    the Company believes more accurately reflect the funding and
    capital characteristics of its segments. The change to interest
    allocation also impacted the consolidated and segment reported
    net interest yield on cardmember loans. The segment results and
    net interest yield on cardmember loans for 2009 and 2008 have
    been revised for this change.

Beginning in 2009, the Company changed the manner by which it
    assesses the performance of its reportable operating segments to
    exclude the impact of its excess liquidity funding levels.
    Accordingly, the debt, cash and investment balances associated
    with the Company s excess liquidity funding and the related
    net negative interest spread are not included within the
    reportable operating segment results (primarily USCS and GCS
    segments) and are reported in the Corporate   Other
    segment for 2010 and 2009. The segment results for 2008 have not
    been revised for this change.

As discussed more fully below, results are presented on a GAAP
    basis unless otherwise stated. Refer to  Glossary of
    Selected Terminology  for the definitions of certain key
    terms and related information appearing in the tables below.

TOTAL
    REVENUES NET OF INTEREST EXPENSE

The Company allocates discount revenue and certain other
    revenues among segments using a transfer pricing methodology.
    Segments earn discount revenue based on the volume of merchant
    business generated by cardmembers. Within the USCS, ICS and GCS
    segments, discount revenue reflects the issuer component of the
    overall discount rate; within the GNMS segment, discount revenue
    reflects the network and merchant component of the overall
    discount rate. Total interest income and net card fees are
    directly attributable to the segment in which they are reported.

PROVISIONS
    FOR LOSSES

The provisions for losses are directly attributable to the
    segment in which they are reported.

EXPENSES

Marketing and promotion expenses are reflected in each segment
    based on actual expenses incurred, with the exception of brand
    advertising, which is primarily reflected in the GNMS and USCS
    segments. Rewards and cardmember services expenses are reflected
    in each segment based on actual expenses incurred within each
    segment.

Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses,
    such as professional services, occupancy and equipment and
    communications, reflect expenses incurred directly within each
    segment. In addition, expenses related to the Company s
    support services, such as technology costs, are allocated to
    each segment based on support service activities directly
    attributable to the segment. Other overhead expenses, such as
    staff group support functions, are allocated to segments based
    on each segment s relative level of pretax income.
    Financing requirements are managed on a consolidated basis.
    Funding costs are allocated based on segment funding
    requirements.

CAPITAL

Each business segment is allocated capital based on established
    business model operating requirements, risk measures and
    regulatory capital requirements. Business model operating
    requirements include capital needed to support operations and
    specific balance sheet items. The risk measures include
    considerations for credit, market and operational risk.

INCOME
    TAXES

Income tax provision (benefit) is allocated to each business
    segment based on the effective tax rates applicable to various
    businesses that make up the segment.

51

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

U.S.
    CARD SERVICES

SELECTED
    INCOME STATEMENT DATA GAAP BASIS PRESENTATION

(a)

In accordance with new GAAP
    effective January 1, 2010, the Company no longer reports
    securitization income, net in its income statement.

SELECTED
    STATISTICAL INFORMATION

*

Proprietary cards only.

(a)

Return on average segment capital
    is calculated by dividing (i) one-year period segment
    income ($2.2 billion, $411 million and
    $978 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) by
    (ii) one-year average segment capital ($6.4 billion,
    $5.1 billion and $4.4 billion for 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively). Return on average tangible segment capital is
    computed in the same manner as return on average segment capital
    except the computation of average tangible segment capital
    excludes from average segment capital average goodwill and other
    intangibles of $459 million, $432 million and
    $243 million at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. The Company believes that return on average
    tangible segment capital is a useful measure of the
    profitability of its business.

(b)

In the fourth quarter of 2008, the
    Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember
    receivables in USCS are written off to 180 days past due,
    consistent with applicable bank regulatory guidance. Previously,
    receivables were written off when 360 days past billing.
    The net write-offs for 2008 include approximately
    $341 million resulting from this write-off methodology
    change, which is not reflected in the table above. If the
    $341 million had been included in USCS write-offs, the net
    write-off rate would have been 5.4 percent for 2008.

52

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

(c)

Refer to  Cardmember Loan
    Portfolio Presentation  on page 54 for discussion of
    GAAP and non-GAAP presentation of the Company s U.S. loan
    portfolio.

(d)

Refer to  Consolidated Results
    of Operations   Selected Statistical
    Information , footnote (f) on page 32.

(e)

Refer to  Consolidated Results
    of Operations   Selected Statistical
    Information , footnote (g) on page 32.

(f)

Revised from prior disclosure due
    to the reclassification of certain intercompany accounts.

CALCULATION
    OF NET INTEREST YIELD ON CARDMEMBER
    LOANS (a) 

(a)

Refer to  Consolidated Results
    of Operations   Calculation of Net Interest Yield on
    Cardmember Loans , footnote (a) on page 33.

(b)

Refer to  Cardmember Loan
    Portfolio Presentation  on page 54 for discussion of
    GAAP and non-GAAP presentation of the Company s U.S. loan
    portfolio.

(c)

Refer to  Consolidated Results
    of Operations   Selected Statistical
    Information , footnote (g) on page 32.

RESULTS
    OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
    2010   GAAP BASIS

The following discussion of USCS segment results of operations
    is presented on a GAAP basis.

USCS reported segment income of $2.2 billion for 2010, a
    $1.8 billion or greater than 100 percent increase from
    $411 million in 2009, which decreased $567 million or
    58 percent from 2008.

Total
    Revenues Net of Interest Expense

In 2010, USCS total revenues net of interest expense increased
    $2.5 billion or 20 percent to $14.6 billion due
    to increases in discount revenue, net card fees and other, and
    interest income partially offset by increased interest expense.

Discount revenue, net card fees and other of $10.0 billion
    in 2010 increased $933 million or 10 percent from
    2009, primarily due to billed business growth of
    11 percent. The growth in billed business was driven by a
    17 percent increase in average spending per proprietary
    basic
     cards-in-force. 
    This line also reflects higher other commissions and fees,
    driven by the new GAAP effective January 1, 2010, which led
    to the inclusion of fees formerly recorded in securitization
    income, net and greater travel commissions and fees, partially
    offset by lower net card fees.

Interest income of $5.4 billion in 2010 was
    $2.2 billion or 68 percent higher than in 2009,
    principally due to the new GAAP effective January 1, 2010,
    partially offset by lower yields on cardmember loans.

Interest expense of $812 million in 2010 increased
    $244 million or 43 percent as compared to a year ago,
    reflecting higher expense related to the new GAAP effective
    January 1, 2010, a higher cost of funds and greater average
    cardmember receivable balances, partially offset by reduced
    funding requirements due to a reduction in average balances of
    cardmember loans.

Total revenues net of interest expense of $12.2 billion in
    2009 were $2.0 billion or 14 percent lower than 2008
    as a result of lower securitization income, net, decreased
    interest income and lower discount revenue, net card fees and
    other, partially offset by lower interest expense.

Provisions
    for Losses

Provisions for losses decreased $2.2 billion or
    58 percent to $1.6 billion for 2010 compared to 2009,
    principally reflecting lower reserve requirements driven by
    improving cardmember loan and charge card credit trends,
    partially offset by the inclusion in 2010 of write-offs on
    securitized cardmember loans and a higher charge card provision.
    The lending net write-off rate decreased to 5.8 percent in
    2010 from 9.1 percent in 2009. The charge card net
    write-off rate decreased to 1.6 percent in 2010 from
    3.8 percent in 2009.

Provisions for losses decreased $620 million or
    14 percent to $3.8 billion for 2009 compared to 2008
    due to lower loan balances and improving credit indicators
    during the second half of 2009.

Expenses

During 2010, USCS expenses increased $1.7 billion or
    22 percent to $9.5 billion, due to increased
    marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses,
    and salaries and employee benefits and total other operating
    expenses. Expenses in 2010, 2009 and 2008, included
    $55 million, $12 million and $30 million,
    respectively, of charges related to reengineering activities
    primarily related to the Company s reengineering
    initiatives in 2010, 2009 and 2008 as previously discussed.
    Expenses in 2009 of $7.8 billion were $669 million or
    8 percent lower than in 2008, due to lower marketing,
    promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses and lower
    salaries and employee benefits and total operating expenses.

Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses
    increased $1.4 billion or 32 percent in 2010 to
    $5.7 billion, reflecting increased marketing and promotion
    expenses due to increased investment spending resulting from
    better credit and business trends in 2010 and higher rewards
    expense primarily due to greater rewards-related spending
    volumes and higher co-brand expense. Rewards expense  

53

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

growth also reflects the benefit in 2009 of a revised, more
    restrictive redemption policy for accounts 30 days past
    due. Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services
    expenses decreased $571 million or 12 percent in 2009 to
    $4.3 billion, due to lower rewards costs, reduced marketing
    and promotion expenses and the Delta-related charge to the
    Membership Reward balance sheet reserve in the fourth quarter of
    2008.

Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses of
    $3.8 billion in 2010 increased $305 million or
    9 percent from 2009, primarily reflecting the higher
    reengineering-related costs, and higher technology development
    expenditures and other business building investments. Salaries
    and employee benefits and other operating expenses of
    $3.5 billion in 2009 decreased $98 million or
    3 percent from 2008, reflecting the benefits from
    reengineering activities, lower net charges associated with
    these reengineering programs, the favorable impact in 2008
    related to fair value hedge ineffectiveness and the costs
    related to the Delta contract extension in the fourth quarter of
    2008.

Income
    Taxes

The effective tax rate was 36 percent for 2010 compared to
    30 percent and 27 percent for 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. The rates for each of these years reflect the
    benefits from the resolution of certain prior years  tax
    items and the relationship of recurring tax benefits to varying
    levels of pretax income.

Cardmember
    Loan Portfolio Presentation

For periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, the
    Company s non-securitized cardmember loan and related debt
    performance information on a GAAP basis was referred to as the
     owned  basis presentation. For such periods, the
    Company also provided information on a non-GAAP
     managed  basis which should be read only as a
    supplement to GAAP information. Unlike the GAAP basis
    presentation, the managed basis presentation in such periods
    assumed there had been no off-balance sheet securitizations for
    the Company s USCS segment (the Company does not currently
    securitize its international cardmember loans), resulting in the
    inclusion of all securitized and non-securitized cardmember
    loans and related debt in the Company s performance
    information.

Under the GAAP basis presentation prior to securitization for
    the period ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, revenues
    and expenses from cardmember loans and related debt were
    reflected in the Company s income statements in other
    commissions and fees, net interest income and provisions for
    losses for cardmember loans. At the time of a securitization
    transaction, the securitized cardmember loans were removed from
    the Company s balance sheet, and the resulting gain on sale
    was reflected in securitization income, net, as well as a
    reduction to the provision for losses (credit reserves were no
    longer recorded for the cardmember loans once sold). Over the
    life of a securitization transaction, the Company recognized the
    net cash flow from interest and fee collections on interests
    sold to investors (the investors  interests) after
    deducting interest paid on the investors  certificates,
    credit losses, contractual service fees, other expenses and
    changes in the fair value of the interest-only strip (referred
    to as  excess spread ). These amounts, in addition to
    servicing fees and the non-credit components of the
    gains/(losses) from securitization activities, were reflected in
    securitization income, net. The Company also recognized interest
    income over the life of the securitization transaction related
    to the interest it retained (i.e., the seller s interest).
    At the maturity of a securitization transaction, cardmember
    loans on the balance sheet increased, and the impact of the
    incremental required loss reserves was recorded in provisions
    for losses.

Under the managed basis presentation for periods ended on or
    prior to December 31, 2009, revenues and expenses related
    to securitized cardmember loans and related debt were reflected
    in other commissions and fees (included in discount revenue, net
    card fees and other), interest income, interest expense and
    provisions for losses. In addition, there was no securitization
    income, net as this presentation assumed no securitization
    transactions had occurred.

Historically, the Company included USCS information on a managed
    basis, as that was the manner in which the Company s
    management viewed and managed the business. Management believed
    that a full picture of trends in the Company s cardmember
    loans business could only be derived by evaluating the
    performance of both securitized and non-securitized cardmember
    loans, as the presentation of the entire cardmember loan
    portfolio was more representative of the economics of the
    aggregate cardmember relationships and ongoing business
    performance and related trends over time. The managed basis
    presentation also provided investors a more comprehensive
    assessment of the information necessary for the Company and
    investors to evaluate the Company s market share.

The adoption of new GAAP on January 1, 2010 resulted in
    accounting for both the Company s securitized and
    non-securitized cardmember loans in the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. As a result, the Company s 2010 GAAP
    presentations and managed basis presentations prior to 2010 are
    generally comparable.

54

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

The following table sets forth cardmember loan portfolio
    financial information for the years ended December 31,
    2010, 2009 and 2008. The December 31, 2010 financial
    information was determined in accordance with the new GAAP
    effective January 1, 2010. The December 31, 2009 and
    2008 information includes the  owned  (GAAP) basis
    presentation, together with the adjustments for securitization
    activity to arrive at the  managed  (non-GAAP) basis
    presentation. For additional information, see  Cardmember
    Loan Portfolio Presentation  above.

U.S.
    CARD SERVICES

SELECTED
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGED BASIS PRESENTATION

(a)

In accordance with new GAAP
    effective January 1, 2010, the Company no longer reports
    securitization income, net in its income statement.

(b)

Includes provisions for losses for
    off-balance sheet cardmember loans based on the same methodology
    as applied to on-balance sheet cardmember loans, except that any
    quarterly adjustment to reserve levels for on-balance sheet
    loans to address external environmental factors was not applied
    to adjust the provision expense for the securitized portfolio.

RESULTS
    OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
    2010   MANAGED BASIS

The following discussion of USCS is on a managed basis.

Discount revenue, net card fees and other in 2010 increased
    $602 million or 6 percent to $10.0 billion,
    reflecting higher billed business volumes and increased travel
    revenues, partially offset by lower commissions and fees.
    Discount revenue, net card fees and other in 2009 decreased
    $1.3 billion or 12 percent to $9.4 billion, due
    to lower billed business volumes, reduced other commissions and
    fees, decreased net card fees, lower other revenues and reduced
    travel commissions and fees.

Interest income in 2010 of $5.4 billion decreased by
    $923 million or 15 percent, due to a decline in the
    average loan balance and a lower portfolio yield driven by
    higher payment rates, lower revolving levels and the CARD Act,
    partially offset by repricing initiatives during 2009 and 2010.
    Interest income in 2009 of $6.3 billion decreased by
    $1.6 billion or 20 percent due to a decline in the
    average managed lending balance and a lower portfolio yield,
    offset by the benefits of certain repricing initiatives during
    2009.

Interest expense in 2010 remained flat at $812 million, due
    to an increase in the cost of funds and higher average
    cardmember receivable balances, offset by reduced funding
    requirements due to a lower average cardmember loan balance in
    the managed portfolio. In 2009, interest expense decreased
    $1.7 billion or 67 percent to $812 million due to
    a lower market interest rate-driven cost of funds and lower
    average managed cardmember loans and receivable balances, as
    well as the movement of liquidity-related interest expense to
    the Corporate   Other segment.

Provisions for losses decreased $4.8 billion or
    75 percent to $1.6 billion in 2010, due to improving
    cardmember loan and charge card credit performance and a lower
    average loan balance. The lending net write-off rate was
    5.8 percent in 2010 versus 8.7 percent in 2009.
    Provisions for losses decreased 1 percent in 2009, driven
    by a lower average loan and receivable balance and improved
    charge card credit performance, partially offset by a higher
    lending write-off level versus 2008.

INTERNATIONAL
    CARD SERVICES

SELECTED
    INCOME STATEMENT DATA

55

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

SELECTED
    STATISTICAL INFORMATION

*

Proprietary cards only.

(a)

Return on average segment capital
    is calculated by dividing (i) one-year period segment
    income ($566 million, $332 million and
    $321 million for December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively) by (ii) one-year average segment capital
    ($2.1 billion, $2.2 billion and $2.2 billion for
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively). Return on
    average tangible segment capital is computed in the same manner
    as return on average segment capital except the computation of
    average tangible segment capital excludes from average segment
    capital average goodwill and other intangibles of
    $592 million, $551 million and $544 million as of
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Management
    believes that return on average tangible segment capital is a
    useful measure of the profitability of its business.

(b)

Effective January 1, 2010, the
    Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember
    receivables in ICS are written off to when they are
    180 days past due or earlier, consistent with applicable
    bank regulatory guidance and the write-off methodology adopted
    for USCS in the fourth quarter of 2008. Previously, receivables
    were written off when they were 360 days past billing or
    earlier. Therefore, the net write-offs for the first quarter of
    2010 include net write-offs of approximately $60 million
    for ICS resulting from this write-off methodology change, which
    increased the net loss ratio and decreased the 90 days past
    billing metric for this segment, but did not have a substantial
    impact on provisions for losses.

(c)

Refer to  Consolidated Results
    of Operations   Selected Statistical
    Information , footnote (c) on page 32.

(d)

Refer to  Consolidated Results
    of Operations   Selected Statistical
    Information , footnote (f) on page 32.

(e)

Refer to  Consolidated Results
    of Operations   Selected Statistical
    Information , footnote (g) on page 32.

(f)

Refer to  U.S. Card
    Services   Selected Statistical Information ,
    footnote (f) on page 52.

CALCULATION
    OF NET INTEREST YIELD ON CARDMEMBER
    LOANS (a) 

(a)

Refer to  Consolidated Results
    of Operations   Calculation of Net Interest Yield on
    Cardmember Loans , footnote (a) on page 33.

(b)

Refer to  Consolidated Results
    of Operations   Selected Statistical
    Information , footnote (g) on page 32.

RESULTS
    OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010

ICS reported segment income of $566 million for 2010, a
    $234 million or 70 percent increase from
    $332 million in 2009, which increased $11 million or
    3 percent from 2008. The increase in segment income for
    2010 is primarily due to an increase in total revenues net of
    interest expense and a decrease in provisions for losses,
    partially offset by an increase in expenses. A significant
    portion of ICS segment income in 2009 and 2008 is attributable
    to the Company s internal tax allocation process. See
    further discussion in the Income Taxes section below.

Total
    Revenues Net of Interest Expense

In 2010, ICS total revenues net of interest expense increased
    $121 million or 3 percent to $4.7 billion
    compared to 2009 due to higher discount revenue, net card fees
    and other, partially offset by lower interest income.

Discount revenue, net card fees, and other increased
    $238 million or 7 percent to $3.7 billion in 2010
    compared to 2009, driven primarily by the higher level of
    cardmember spending and greater foreign-exchange conversion
    revenues. The 14 percent increase in billed business in
    2010 reflected an 18 percent increase in average spending
    per proprietary basic
     cards-in-force, 
    partially offset by a 1 percent decrease in basic
     cards-in-force. 
    Assuming no changes in foreign currency exchange rates from 2009
    to 2010, billed business and average spending per proprietary
    basic
     cards-in-force 
    increased 9 percent and 14 percent, respectively;
    volumes increased across the major geographic regions, including
    an increase of 13 percent in Latin America, 10 percent
    in Asia Pacific, and 8 percent in both Canada and
    Europe 2 .

2     

Refer to footnote 1 on page 33
    under Consolidated Results of Operations for the Three Years
    Ended December 31, 2010 relating to changes in foreign
    exchange rates.

56

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

Interest income declined $116 million or 8 percent to
    $1.4 billion in 2010 compared to 2009, as a lower yield on
    cardmember loans and a lower average loan balance were partially
    offset by higher lending card fees.

Interest expense of $428 million in 2010 was flat as
    compared to 2009, as lower average loan balances offset higher
    average receivable levels.

Total revenues net of interest expense of $4.5 billion in
    2009 were $203 million or 4 percent lower than 2008
    due to lower discount revenue, net card fees and other and
    decreased interest income, partially offset by lower interest
    expense.

Provisions
    for Losses

Provisions for losses decreased $819 million or
    68 percent to $392 million in 2010 compared to 2009,
    primarily reflecting lower reserve requirements due to improving
    cardmember loan and charge card credit trends. The charge card
    net loss ratio (as a percentage of charge volume) was
    0.24 percent in 2010 versus 0.36 percent last year.
    The lending net write-off rate was 4.6 percent in 2010
    versus 6.8 percent last year.

Provisions for losses increased $181 million or
    18 percent to $1.2 billion in 2009 compared to 2008,
    primarily reflecting a higher lending reserve level.

Expenses

During 2010, ICS expenses increased $578 million or
    19 percent to $3.6 billion compared to 2009, due to
    higher marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services and
    increased salaries and employee benefits and other operating
    expenses. Expenses in 2010, 2009 and 2008, included
    $19 million, $4 million and $83 million,
    respectively, of reengineering costs primarily related to the
    Company s reengineering initiatives in 2010, 2009 and 2008
    as previously discussed. Expenses in 2009 of $3.0 billion
    were $556 million or 15 percent lower than 2008, due
    to lower marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services
    and decreased salaries and employee benefits and other operating
    expenses.

Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses
    increased $391 million or 32 percent to
    $1.6 billion in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to
    higher marketing and promotion expenses and greater
    volume-related rewards costs. Marketing, promotion, rewards and
    cardmember services expenses decreased $232 million or
    16 percent to $1.2 billion in 2009 compared to 2008,
    reflecting reduced marketing and promotion expenses through the
    first nine months of 2009 and lower reward costs.

Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses
    increased $187 million or 10 percent to
    $2.0 billion in 2010 compared to 2009, reflecting the
    higher net reengineering costs in 2010, higher technology
    development expenditures, increased investments in sales-force,
    closing costs related to the acquisition of Loyalty Partner and
    other business building investments. Salaries and employee
    benefits and other operating expenses decreased
    $324 million or 15 percent to $1.8 billion in
    2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to benefits from the
    Company s reengineering activities and lower net charges
    during 2009 related to reengineering initiatives.

Income
    Taxes

The effective tax rate was 11 percent in 2010 versus
    negative 20 percent in 2009 and negative 209 percent
    in 2008. The tax rate in 2010 reflects a benefit from the
    resolution of certain prior years  tax items. In addition,
    the tax rates in each of the periods primarily reflect the
    impact of recurring tax benefits on varying levels of pretax
    income. This segment reflects the favorable impact of the
    consolidated tax benefit related to its ongoing funding
    activities outside the U.S., which is allocated to ICS under the
    Company s internal tax allocation process.

GLOBAL
    COMMERCIAL SERVICES

SELECTED
    INCOME STATEMENT DATA

57

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

SELECTED
    STATISTICAL INFORMATION

*

Proprietary cards only.

(a)

Return on average segment capital
    is calculated by dividing (i) one-year period segment
    income ($474 million, $350 million and
    $454 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) by
    (ii) one-year average segment capital ($3.6 billion,
    $3.6 billion and $3.2 billion for 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively). Return on average tangible segment capital is
    computed in the same manner as return on average segment capital
    except the computation of average tangible segment capital
    excludes from average segment capital average goodwill and other
    intangibles of $1.9 billion, $1.9 billion and
    $1.7 billion at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. The Company believes the return on average
    tangible segment capital is a useful measure of the
    profitability of its business.

(b)

Effective January 1, 2010, the
    Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember
    receivables in Global Commercial Services are written off to
    when they are 180 days past due or earlier, consistent with
    applicable bank regulatory guidance and the write-off
    methodology adopted for U.S. Card Services in the fourth quarter
    of 2008. Previously, receivables were written off when they were
    360 days past billing or earlier. Therefore, the net
    write-offs for the first quarter of 2010 include net write-offs
    of approximately $48 million for Global Commercial Services
    resulting from this write-off methodology change, which
    increased the net loss ratio and decreased the 90 days past
    billing metric for this segment, but did not have a substantial
    impact on provisions for losses. The metrics for prior periods
    have not been revised for this change as it was deemed
    immaterial.

(c)

Refer to  Consolidated Results
    of Operations   Selected Statistical
    Information , footnote(c) on page 32.

(d)

Refer to  U.S. Card
    Services   Selected Statistical Information ,
    footnote (f) on page 52.

RESULTS
    OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010

GCS reported segment income of $474 million for 2010, a
    $124 million or 35 percent increase from
    $350 million in 2009, which decreased $104 million or
    23 percent from 2008.

Total
    Revenues Net of Interest Expense

In 2010, GCS total revenues net of interest expense increased
    $419 million or 11 percent to $4.4 billion due to
    increased discount revenue, net card fees, and other and higher
    interest income, partially offset by higher interest expense.

Discount revenue, net card fees, and other revenues increased
    $464 million or 11 percent to $4.6 billion in
    2010 primarily driven by higher cardmember spending and greater
    travel commissions and fees. The 19 percent increase in
    billed business in 2010 was driven by the 22 percent
    increase in average spending per proprietary basic
     cards-in-force. 
    Adjusting for the impact of foreign exchange translation, billed
    business and average spending per proprietary basic
     cards-in-force 
    grew 19 percent and 21 percent,
    respectively 3 ,

    volume increased 19 percent within the United States,
    compared to an increase of 18 percent outside the United
    States 3 .

Interest income increased $2 million or 40 percent to
    $7 million in 2010 compared to 2009.

Interest expense increased $47 million or 26 percent
    to $227 million in 2010 compared to 2009 driven by
    increased funding requirements due to a higher average
    receivable balance and a higher cost of funds.

Total revenues net of interest expense of $4.0 billion in
    2009 decreased $634 million or 14 percent compared to
    2008 due to decreased discount revenue, net card fees, and other
    and lower interest income, partially offset by lower interest
    expense.

Provisions
    for Losses

Provisions for losses decreased $19 million or
    11 percent to $158 million in 2010 compared to 2009,
    driven by improved credit performance within the underlying
    portfolio. The charge card net loss ratio (as a percentage of
    charge volume) was 0.11 percent in 2010 versus
    0.19 percent last year. Provisions for losses decreased
    $54 million or 23 percent to $177 million in 2009
    compared to 2008, reflecting improved credit trends as 2009
    progressed.

3     Refer
    to footnote 1 on page 33 under Consolidated Results of
    Operations for the Three Years Ended December 31, 2010
    relating to changes in foreign exchange rates.

58

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

Expenses

During 2010, GCS expenses increased $182 million or
    6 percent to $3.5 billion, due to higher marketing,
    promotion, rewards and cardmember services expense and increased
    salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses.
    Expenses in 2010, 2009 and 2008, included $32 million,
    $101 million and $138 million, respectively, of
    reengineering costs, primarily reflecting the Company s
    reengineering initiatives in 2010, 2009 and 2008 as previously
    discussed. Expenses in 2009 of $3.3 billion decreased
    $471 million or 12 percent, reflecting a reduction in
    salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses, as
    well as lower rewards costs, lower net charges associated with
    reengineering initiatives in 2009, and the Delta-related
    increase in the Membership Rewards balance sheet reserve in the
    fourth quarter of 2008.

Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses
    increased $110 million or 33 percent to
    $442 million in 2010 compared to 2009, reflecting higher
    rewards costs and greater marketing and promotion expenses.
    Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses
    decreased $45 million or 12 percent to
    $332 million in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily reflecting
    lower rewards costs in 2009 and the Delta-related increase in
    the Membership Rewards balance sheet reserve in the fourth
    quarter of 2008.

Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses
    increased $72 million or 2 percent to
    $3.0 billion in 2010 compared to 2009, as higher travel
    volume-driven personnel costs, greater incentive-based
    sales-force costs, as well as increased technology development
    expenditures and other business-building investments were
    partially offset by the lower reengineering-related costs.
    Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses
    decreased $426 million or 13 percent to
    $3.0 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, reflecting the
    benefits from the Company s reengineering initiatives,
    partially offset by lower net charges associated with these
    programs during 2009.

Income
    Taxes

The effective tax rate was 38 percent in 2010 versus
    31 percent in 2009 and 26 percent in 2008. The higher
    2010 rate reflects the impact of increasing the valuation
    allowance against deferred tax assets associated with certain
     non-U.S. travel 
    operations.

GLOBAL
    NETWORK   MERCHANT 
    SERVICES

SELECTED
    INCOME STATEMENT DATA

SELECTED
    STATISTICAL INFORMATION

(a)

Return on average segment capital
    is calculated by dividing (i) segment income
    ($1.1 billion, $937 million and $1.1 billion for
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) by (ii) average segment
    capital ($1.7 billion, $1.4 billion and
    $1.1 billion for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively). Return
    on average tangible segment capital is computed in the same
    manner as return on average segment capital except the
    computation of average tangible segment capital excludes from
    average segment capital average goodwill and other intangibles
    of $70 million, $36 million and $35 million as of
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company
    believes the return on average tangible segment capital is a
    useful measure of the profitability of its business.

(b)

For non-proprietary retail co-brand
    partners, Global Network Services metrics exclude cardmember
    accounts which have no
     out-of-store 
    spend activity during the prior
     12-month 
    period.

(c)

Refer to  U.S. Card
    Services   Selected Statistical Information ,
    footnote (f) on page 52.

59

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

RESULTS
    OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010

GNMS reported segment income of $1.1 billion in 2010, a
    $126 million or 13 percent increase from
    $937 million in 2009, which decreased $113 million or
    11 percent from 2008.

Total
    Revenues Net of Interest Expense

GNMS total revenues net of interest expense increased
    $593 million or 16 percent to $4.4 billion in
    2010 compared to 2009, due to increased discount revenue, net
    card fees and other and increased interest expense credit.

Discount revenue, fees and other increased $567 million or
    16 percent to $4.2 billion in 2010 compared to 2009,
    primarily due to an increase in merchant-related revenues,
    driven by a 15 percent increase in global card billed
    business, as well as higher volume driven GNS-related revenues.

Interest expense credit increased $23 million or
    13 percent to $200 million in 2010 compared to 2009,
    due to a higher funding-driven interest credit related to
    internal transfer pricing, which recognizes the merchant
    services  accounts payable-related funding benefit.

Total revenues net of interest expense of $3.8 billion in
    2009 decreased $411 million or 10 percent compared to
    2008 due to decreased discount revenue, net card fees and other
    and decreased interest expense credit.

Provisions
    for Losses

Provisions for losses decreased $74 million or
    55 percent to $61 million in 2010 compared to 2009,
    primarily due to lower merchant-related debit balances.
    Provisions for losses in 2009 increased $8 million or
    6 percent to $135 million compared to 2008, primarily
    driven by the higher provisions in GNS.

Expenses

During 2010, GNMS expenses increased $463 million or
    21 percent to $2.7 billion compared to 2009 due to
    higher salaries and employee benefits and other operating
    expenses and an increase in marketing and promotion expenses.
    Expenses in 2009 of $2.2 billion were $285 million or
    11 percent lower than 2008, due to lower salaries and
    employee benefits and other operating expenses and a decrease in
    marketing and promotion expenses.

Marketing and promotion expenses increased $234 million or
    45 percent to $755 million in 2010 compared to 2009,
    reflecting higher network, merchant-related and brand marketing
    investments. Marketing and promotion expenses decreased
    6 percent in 2009 to $521 million compared to 2008,
    reflecting lower brand and merchant-related marketing costs.

Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses
    increased $229 million or 14 percent to
    $1.9 billion in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to
    greater third party merchant sales-force commissions, higher
    technology development expenditures, and other business building
    investments. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating
    expenses decreased $253 million or 13 percent to
    $1.7 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily reflecting
    the benefits from the Company s reengineering initiatives.

Income
    Taxes

The effective tax rate was 36 percent in 2010,
    35 percent in 2009 and 34 percent in 2008.

CORPORATE  
    OTHER

Corporate   Other had net expense of $292 million
    and net income of $107 million and $68 million in
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Results in 2010, 2009 and
    2008 reflected $372 million, $372 million and
    $186 million of after-tax income related to the MasterCard
    litigation settlement, respectively, and $172 million of
    after-tax income for all three years related to the Visa
    litigation settlement. Reengineering costs after-tax of
    $2 million, $35 million and $108 million, for
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, primarily related to the
    Company s reengineering initiatives previously discussed.

Net expense in 2010 reflected higher incentive compensation and
    benefit reinstatement-related expenses, and various investments
    in the Global Prepaid business and Enterprise Growth initiatives.

Net income in 2009 reflected $135 million of after-tax
    income related to the ICBC sale, a $135 million benefit
    representing the correction of an error related to the
    accounting for cumulative translation adjustments associated
    with a net investment in foreign subsidiaries and a
    $45 million benefit resulting from the change in fair value
    of certain forward exchange contracts.

Net income in 2008 reflected a $19 million after-tax charge
    primarily relating to AEB operations retained by the Company in
    the first quarter of 2008.

EXPOSURE
    TO AIRLINE INDUSTRY

The Company has multiple co-brand relationships and rewards
    partners, of which relationships with airlines are one of the
    most important and valuable. Refer to Note 22 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of
    these relationships. Refer also to Note 8 for further
    discussion of prepaid miles acquired from certain airlines.

60

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

OTHER
    REPORTING MATTERS

ACCOUNTING
    DEVELOPMENTS

See the Recently Issued Accounting Standards section of
    Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

GLOSSARY
    OF SELECTED TERMINOLOGY

Adjusted average loans    Represents
    average cardmember loans on a GAAP or managed basis, as
    applicable, in each case excluding the impact of deferred card
    fees, net of deferred direct acquisition costs of cardmember
    loans.

Adjusted net interest income    Represents
    net interest income allocated to the Company s cardmember
    loans portfolio on a GAAP or managed basis, as applicable, in
    each case excluding the impact of card fees on loans and balance
    transfer fees attributable to the Company s cardmember
    loans.

Asset securitizations    Asset
    securitization involves the transfer and sale of receivables or
    loans to a special purpose entity created for the securitization
    activity, typically a trust. The trust, in turn, issues
    securities, commonly referred to as asset-backed securities,
    that are secured by the transferred receivables or loans. The
    trust uses the proceeds from the sale of such securities to pay
    the purchase price for the underlying receivables or loans.

Average discount rate    This calculation is
    designed to reflect pricing at merchants accepting general
    purpose American Express cards. It represents the percentage of
    billed business (both proprietary and Global Network Services)
    retained by the Company from merchants it acquires, prior to
    payments to third parties unrelated to merchant acceptance.

Basic
     cards-in-force     Proprietary
    basic consumer
     cards-in-force 
    includes basic cards issued to the primary account owner and
    does not include additional supplemental cards issued on that
    account. Proprietary basic small business and corporate
     cards-in-force 
    include basic and supplemental cards issued to employee
    cardmembers. Non-proprietary basic
     cards-in-force 
    includes all cards that are issued and outstanding under network
    partnership agreements, except for retail co-brand cardmember
    accounts which have no out-of-store spend activity during the
    prior 12-month period.

Billed business    Includes activities
    (including cash advances) related to proprietary cards, cards
    issued under network partnership agreements (non-proprietary
    billed business) and certain insurance fees charged on
    proprietary cards. In-store spend activity within retail
    co-brand portfolios in Global Network Services, from which the
    Company earns no revenue, is not included in non-proprietary
    billed business. Card billed business is reflected in the United
    States or outside the United States based on where the
    cardmember is domiciled.

Capital asset pricing model    Generates an
    appropriate discount rate using internal and external inputs to
    value future cash flows based on the time value of money and the
    price for bearing uncertainty inherent in an investment.

Capital ratios    Represents the minimum
    standards established by the regulatory agencies as a measure to
    determine whether the regulated entity has sufficient capital to
    absorb on- and off-balance sheet losses beyond current loss
    accrual estimates.

Card acquisition    Primarily represents
    the issuance of new cards to either new or existing cardmembers
    through marketing and promotion efforts.

Cardmember    The individual holder of an
    issued American Express branded charge or credit card.

Cardmember loans    Represents the
    outstanding amount due from cardmembers for charges made on
    their American Express credit cards, as well as any interest
    charges and card-related fees. Cardmember loans also include
    balances with extended payment terms on certain charge card
    products and are net of unearned revenue.

Cardmember receivables    Represents the
    outstanding amount due from cardmembers for charges made on
    their American Express charge cards as well as any card-related
    fees.

Charge cards    Represents cards that
    generally carry no pre-set spending limits and are primarily
    designed as a method of payment and not as a means of financing
    purchases. Charge cardmembers generally must pay the full amount
    billed each month. No finance charges are assessed on charge
    cards. Each charge card transaction is authorized based on its
    likely economics reflecting a customer s most recent credit
    information and spend patterns.

Credit cards    Represents cards that have
    a range of revolving payment terms, grace periods, and rate and
    fee structures.

Discount revenue    Represents revenue
    earned from fees charged to merchants with whom the Company has
    entered into a card acceptance agreement for processing
    cardmember transactions. The discount fee generally is deducted
    from the Company s payment reimbursing the merchant for
    cardmember purchases. Such amounts are reduced by contra-revenue
    such as payments to third-party card issuing partners, cash-back
    reward costs and corporate incentive payments.

Interest expense    Interest expense
    includes interest incurred primarily to fund cardmember loans,
    charge card product receivables, general corporate purposes, and
    liquidity needs, and is recognized as incurred. Interest expense
    is divided principally into three categories: (i) deposits,
    which primarily relates to interest expense on deposits taken
    from customers and institutions, (ii) short-term
    borrowings, which primarily relates to interest expense on
    commercial paper, federal funds purchased, bank overdrafts and
    other short-term borrowings, and (iii) long-term debt,
    which primarily relates to interest expense on the
    Company s long-term debt.

Interest income    Interest income includes
    (i) interest and fees on loans, (ii) interest and
    dividends on investment securities and (iii) interest
    income on deposits with banks and others.

Interest and fees on loans includes interest on loans which is
    assessed using the average daily balance method for loans owned.
    These amounts are recognized based upon the principal amount
    outstanding in accordance with the terms of

61

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

the applicable account agreement until the outstanding balance
    is paid or written-off. Loan fees are deferred and recognized in
    interest income on a straight-line basis over the
     12-month 
    card membership period, net of deferred direct card acquisition
    costs and a reserve for projected membership cancellation.

Interest and dividends on investment securities primarily
    relates to the Company s performing fixed-income
    securities. Interest income is accrued as earned using the
    effective interest method, which adjusts the yield for security
    premiums and discounts, fees and other payments, so that the
    related investment security recognizes a constant rate of return
    on the outstanding balance throughout its term. These amounts
    are recognized until these securities are in default or when it
    is likely that future interest payments will not be made as
    scheduled.

Interest income on deposits with banks and other is recognized
    as earned, and primarily relates to the placement of cash in
    excess of near-term funding requirements in interest-bearing
    time deposits, overnight sweep accounts, and other interest
    bearing demand and call accounts.

Interest-only strip    Interest-only strips
    are generated from USCS  securitization activity and are a
    form of retained interest held by the Company in the
    securitization. This financial instrument represents the present
    value of estimated future positive  excess spread 
    expected to be generated by the securitized assets over the
    estimated life of those assets. Excess spread is the net cash
    flow from interest and fee collections allocated to the
    third-party investors  interests in the securitization
    after deducting the interest paid on the investor certificates,
    credit losses, contractual servicing fees, and other expenses.

Merchant acquisition    Represents the
    signing of merchants to accept American Express-branded cards.

Net card fees    Represents the charge card
    membership fees earned during the period. These fees are
    recognized as revenue over the covered card membership period
    (typically one year), net of provision for projected refunds for
    cancellation of card membership.

Net interest yield on cardmember loans    Net
    interest yield on cardmember loans is a non-GAAP financial
    measure that represents the net spread earned on cardmember
    loans. Net interest yield on cardmember loans is computed by
    dividing adjusted net interest income by adjusted average loans,
    computed on an annualized basis. The calculation of net interest
    yield on cardmember loans includes interest that is deemed
    uncollectible. For all presentations of net interest yield on
    cardmember loans, reserves and net write-offs related to
    uncollectible interest are recorded through provisions for
    losses   cardmember loans; therefore, such reserves
    and net write-offs are not included in the net interest yield
    calculation.

Net loss ratio    Represents the ratio of
    charge card write-offs consisting of principal (resulting from
    authorized and unauthorized transactions) and fee components,
    less recoveries, on cardmember receivables expressed as a
    percentage of gross amounts billed to cardmembers.

Net write-off rate    Represents the amount
    of cardmember loans or USCS cardmember receivables written off
    consisting of principal (resulting from authorized
    transactions), less recoveries, as a percentage of the average
    loan balance or USCS average receivables during the period.

Return on average equity    Calculated by
    dividing one-year period net income by one-year average total
    shareholders  equity.

Return on average tangible common
    equity    Computed in the same manner as ROE
    except the computation of average tangible common
    shareholders  equity excludes from average total
    shareholders  equity average goodwill and other intangibles.

Return on average segment
    capital    Calculated by dividing one-year
    period segment income by one-year average segment capital.

Return on average tangible segment
    capital    Computed in the same manner as
    return on average segment capital except the computation of
    average tangible segment capital excludes from average segment
    capital average goodwill and other intangibles.

Risk-weighted assets    Refer to Capital
    Strategy section for definition.

Securitization income, net    Prior to
    2010, includes non-credit provision components of the net gains
    or losses from securitization activities; changes in fair value
    of the interest-only strip; excess spread related to securitized
    cardmember loans; and servicing income, net of related discounts
    or fees. Excess spread, which is recognized as earned, is the
    net cash flow from interest and fee collections allocated to the
    third-party investors  interests in the securitization
    after deducting the interest paid on the investor certificates,
    credit losses, contractual servicing fees and other expenses.

Segment capital    Represents capital
    allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational
    needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements.

Stored value and prepaid
    products    Includes Travelers Cheques and
    other prepaid products such as gift cheques and cards as well as
    reloadable Travelers Cheque cards. These products are sold as
    safe and convenient alternatives to currency for purchasing
    goods and services.

Tier 1 leverage ratio    Refer to
    Capital Strategy section for definition.

Tier 1 risk-based capital
    ratio    Refer to Capital Strategy section for
    definition.

Total
     cards-in-force   
     Represents the number of cards that are issued and
    outstanding. Proprietary basic consumer
     cards-in-force 
    includes basic cards issued to the primary account owner and
    does not include additional supplemental cards issued on that
    account. Proprietary basic small business and corporate
     cards-in-force 
    include basic and supplemental cards issued to employee
    cardmembers. Non-proprietary
     cards-in-force 
    includes all cards that are issued and

62

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

outstanding under network partnership agreements, except for
    retail co-brand cardmember accounts which have no
     out-of-store 
    spend activity during the prior
     12-month 
    period.

Total risk-based capital ratio    Refer to
    Capital Strategy section for definition.

Travel sales    Represents the total dollar
    amount of travel transaction volume for airline, hotel, car
    rental, and other travel arrangements made for consumers and
    corporate clients. The Company earns revenue on these
    transactions by charging a transaction or management fee.

FORWARD-LOOKING
    STATEMENTS

This report includes forward-looking statements within the
    meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995,
    which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The
    forward-looking statements, which address the Company s
    expected business and financial performance, among other
    matters, contain words such as  believe, 
     expect,   estimate, 
     anticipate,   optimistic, 
     intend,   plan,   aim, 
     will,   may,   should, 
     could,   would,   likely,  and
    similar expressions. Readers are cautioned not to place undue
    reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only
    as of the date on which they are made. The Company undertakes no
    obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
    Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
    from these forward-looking statements, include, but are not
    limited to, the following:

changes in global economic and business conditions, including
    consumer and business spending, the availability and cost of
    credit, unemployment and political conditions, all of which may
    significantly affect spending on the Company s cards,
    delinquency rates, loan balances and other aspects of our
    business and results of operations;

changes in capital and credit market conditions, which may
    significantly affect the Company s ability to meet its
    liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital,
    including changes in interest rates; changes in market
    conditions affecting the valuation of our assets; or any
    reduction in our credit ratings or those of our subsidiaries,
    which could materially increase the cost and other terms of our
    funding, restrict our access to the capital markets or result in
    contingent payments under contracts;

litigation, such as class actions or proceedings brought by
    governmental and regulatory agencies (including the lawsuit
    filed against the Company by the U.S. Department of Justice
    and certain state attorneys general), that could result in
    (i) the imposition of behavioral remedies against the
    Company or the Company s voluntarily making certain changes
    to its business practices, the effects of which in either case
    could have a material adverse impact on the Company s
    financial performance; (ii) the imposition of substantial
    monetary damages in private actions against the Company;
     and/or 
    (iii) damage to the Company s global reputation and
    brand;

legal and regulatory developments wherever we do business,
    including legislative and regulatory reforms in the United
    States, such as the Dodd-Frank Act s stricter regulation of
    large, interconnected financial institutions, increasing
    regulation of rates charged to merchants and the practices
    merchants may engage in to discriminate among the payment
    products they accept, changes in requirements relating to
    securitization and the establishment of the Bureau of Consumer
    Financial Protection, which could make fundamental changes to
    many of our business practices or materially affect our capital
    requirements, results of operations, ability to pay dividends or
    repurchase our stock; or actions and potential future actions by
    the FDIC and credit rating agencies applicable to securitization
    trusts, which could impact the Company s ABS program;

changes in the substantial and increasing worldwide competition
    in the payments industry, including competitive pressures from
    charge, credit and debit card networks and issuers, as well as
    evolving alternative payment systems and products, competitive
    pressure that may impact the prices we charge merchants that
    accept our Cards and the success of marketing, promotion or
    rewards programs;

changes in technology or in our ability to protect our
    intellectual property (such as copyrights, trademarks, patents
    and controls on access and distribution), and invest in and
    compete at the leading edge of technological developments across
    our businesses, including technology and intellectual property
    of third parties whom we rely on, all of which could materially
    affect our results of operations;

data breaches and fraudulent activity, which could damage our
    brand, increase our costs or have regulatory implications, and
    changes in regulation affecting privacy and data security under
    federal, state and foreign law, which could result in higher
    compliance and technology costs to ourselves or our vendors;

changes in our ability to attract or retain qualified personnel
    in the management and operation of the Company s business,
    including any changes that may result from increasing regulatory
    supervision of compensation practices;

changes in the financial condition and creditworthiness of our
    business partners, such as bankruptcies, restructurings or
    consolidations, involving merchants that represent a significant
    portion of our business, such as the airline industry, or our
    partners in Global Network Services or financial institutions
    that we rely on for routine funding and liquidity, which could
    materially affect our financial condition or results of
    operations;

63

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW  

uncertainties associated with business acquisitions, including
    the ability to realize anticipated business retention, growth
    and cost savings or effectively integrate the acquired business
    into our existing operations;

changes affecting the success of our reengineering and other
    cost control initiatives, which may result in the Company not
    realizing all or a significant portion of the benefits that we
    intend;

the actual amount to be spent by the Company on investments in
    the business, including on marketing, promotion, rewards and
    cardmember services and certain other operating expenses, which
    will be based in part on management s assessment of
    competitive opportunities and the Company s performance and
    the ability to control and manage operating, infrastructure,
    advertising and promotion expenses as business expands or
    changes;

the effectiveness of the Company s risk management policies
    and procedures, including credit risk relating to consumer debt,
    liquidity risk in meeting business requirements and operational
    risks;

changes affecting our ability to accept or maintain deposits due
    to market demand or regulatory constraints, such as changes in
    interest rates and regulatory restrictions on our ability to
    obtain deposit funding or offer competitive interest rates,
    which could affect our liquidity position and our ability to
    fund our business; and

factors beyond our control such as fire, power loss, disruptions
    in telecommunications, severe weather conditions, natural
    disasters, terrorism,  hackers  or fraud, which could
    affect travel-related spending or disrupt our global network
    systems and ability to process transactions.

A further description of these uncertainties and other risks can
    be found in the Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2010, and the
    Company s other reports filed with the SEC.

64

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON
    INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  

MANAGEMENT S
    REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  

The management of the Company is responsible for establishing
    and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
    reporting.

The Company s internal control over financial reporting is
    a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    GAAP in the United States of America, and includes those
    policies and procedures that:

Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
    detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
    dispositions of the assets of the Company;

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
    necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
    accordance with GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the Company; and

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
    detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the
    Company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Company s management assessed the effectiveness of the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2010. In making this assessment, the
    Company s management used the criteria set forth by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    (COSO) in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework. 

Based on management s assessment and those criteria, we
    conclude that, as of December 31, 2010, the Company s
    internal control over financial reporting is effective.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Company s independent
    registered public accounting firm, has issued an attestation
    report appearing on the following page on the effectiveness of
    the Company s internal control over financial reporting as
    of December 31, 2010.

65

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
    REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

REPORT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

THE
    BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS OF AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and
    the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and
    shareholders  equity present fairly, in all material
    respects, the financial position of American Express Company and
    its subsidiaries at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the
    results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
    years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company
    maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
    over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on
    criteria established in  Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The
    Company s management is responsible for these financial
    statements, for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
    accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions
    on these financial statements and on the Company s internal
    control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.
    We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement and whether effective internal
    control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audits of the financial statements included
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
    presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial
    reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal
    control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a
    material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design
    and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
    assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other
    procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
    believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
    opinions.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company adopted new guidance in 2010 relating to
    transfers of financial assets and consolidation of variable
    interest entities.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

New York, New York

February 25, 2011

66

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

INDEX TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

67

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME  

(a)

Represents income from continuing
    operations or net income, as applicable, less
    (i) accelerated preferred dividend accretion of
    $212 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 due
    to the repurchase of $3.39 billion of preferred shares
    issued as part of the Capital Purchase Program (CPP),
    (ii) preferred share dividends and related accretion of
    $94 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and
    (iii) earnings allocated to participating share awards and
    other items of $51 million, $22 million and
    $15 million for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

See Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

68

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS  

(a)

The balances as of
    December 31, 2009 include an undivided, pro-rata interest
    in an unconsolidated variable interest entity (historically
    referred to as  seller s interest ) totaling
    $8,752, of which $8,033 is included in cardmember loans and $719
    is included in other assets. Refer to Note 7 for additional
    details.

See Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

69

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

70

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

71

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

NOTE 1

SUMMARY
    OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

THE
    COMPANY

American Express is a global service company that provides
    customers with access to products, insights and experiences that
    enrich lives and build business success. The Company s
    principal products and services are charge and credit payment
    card products and travel-related services offered to consumers
    and businesses around the world. The Company s various
    products and services are sold globally to diverse customer
    groups, including consumers, small businesses, mid-sized
    companies and large corporations. These products and services
    are sold through various channels, including direct mail,
    on-line applications, targeted direct and third-party sales
    forces and direct response advertising.

PRINCIPLES
    OF CONSOLIDATION

The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company are
    prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
    accounting principles (GAAP). All significant intercompany
    transactions are eliminated.

The Company consolidates all entities in which the Company holds
    a  controlling financial interest.  For voting
    interest entities, the Company is considered to hold a
    controlling financial interest when the Company is able to
    exercise control over the investees  operating and
    financial decisions. For variable interest entities (VIEs), the
    Company is considered to hold a controlling financial interest
    when it is determined to be the primary beneficiary. Prior to
    the adoption of ASU
     No. 2009-17, 
    Consolidation (Topic 810): Improvements to Financial Reporting
    by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities
    (effective January 1, 2010), a primary beneficiary was the
    party that absorbs a majority of the VIE s expected losses
    or receive a majority of the VIE s expected residual
    returns. For VIEs, subsequent to the adoption of ASU
     No. 2009-17, 
    a primary beneficiary is a party that has both: (1) the
    power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly
    impact that entity s economic performance, and (2) the
    obligation to absorb losses, or the right to receive benefits,
    from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE.
    The determination of whether an entity is a VIE is based on the
    amount and characteristics of the entity s equity.

Entities in which the Company s voting interest in common
    equity does not provide the Company with control, but allows the
    Company to exert significant influence over their financial and
    operating decisions are accounted for under the equity method.
    All other investments in equity securities, to the extent that
    they are not considered marketable securities, are accounted for
    under the cost method.

FOREIGN
    CURRENCY

Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are
    translated into U.S. dollars based upon exchange rates
    prevailing at the end of each year. The resulting translation
    adjustments, along with any related qualifying hedge and tax
    effects, are included in accumulated other comprehensive (loss)
    income (AOCI), a component of shareholders  equity.
    Translation adjustments, including qualifying hedge and tax
    effects, are reclassified to earnings upon the sale or
    substantial liquidation of investments in foreign operations.
    Revenues and expenses are translated at the average month-end
    exchange rates during the year. Gains and losses related to
    transactions in a currency other than the functional currency,
    including operations outside the U.S. where the functional
    currency is the U.S. dollar, are reported net in the
    Company s Consolidated Statements of Income, in other
    non-interest revenue, interest income, interest expense, or
    other, net expense, depending on the nature of the activity. Net
    foreign currency transaction gains amounted to approximately
    $138 million, $205 million and $15 million in
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

AMOUNTS
    BASED ON ESTIMATES AND 
    ASSUMPTIONS

Accounting estimates are an integral part of the Consolidated
    Financial Statements. These estimates are based, in part, on
    management s assumptions concerning future events. Among
    the more significant assumptions are those that relate to
    reserves for cardmember losses relating to loans and charge card
    receivables, reserves for Membership Rewards costs, fair value
    measurement, goodwill and income taxes. These accounting
    estimates reflect the best judgment of management, but actual
    results could differ.

TOTAL
    REVENUES NET OF INTEREST EXPENSE

Discount
    Revenue

Discount revenue represents fees charged to merchants with which
    the Company, or its GNS partners, has entered into card
    acceptance agreements for facilitating transactions between the
    merchants and the Company s cardmembers. The discount
    generally is deducted from the payment to the merchant and
    recorded as discount revenue at the time the charge is captured.

Net
    Card Fees

Card fees are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis
    over the
     12-month 
    card membership period, net of deferred direct card acquisition
    costs and a reserve for projected membership cancellations.
    Charge card fees are recognized in net card fees in the
    Consolidated Statements of Income and the unamortized net card
    fee balance is reported in other liabilities on the Consolidated
    Balance Sheets (refer to Note 11). Loan product fees are
    considered an enhancement to the yield on the product, and are
    recognized in interest and fees on loans in the Consolidated
    Statements of Income. The unamortized net card

72

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

fee balance for lending products is reported net in cardmember
    loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets (refer to Note 4).

Travel
    Commissions and Fees

The Company earns travel commissions and fees by charging
    clients transaction or management fees for selling and arranging
    travel and for travel management services. Client transaction
    fee revenue is recognized at the time the client books the
    travel arrangements. Travel management services revenue is
    recognized over the contractual term of the agreement. The
    Company s travel suppliers (for example, airlines, hotels
    and car rental companies) pay commissions and fees on tickets
    issued, sales and other services based on contractual
    agreements. Commissions and fees from travel suppliers are
    generally recognized at the time a ticket is purchased or over
    the term of the contract. Commissions and fees that are based on
    services rendered (for example, hotel stays and car rentals) are
    recognized based on usage.

Other
    Commissions and Fees

Other commissions and fees include foreign currency conversion
    fees, delinquency fees, service fees and other card related
    assessments, which are recognized primarily in the period in
    which they are charged to the cardmember. Also included are fees
    related to the Company s Membership Rewards program, which
    are deferred and recognized over the period covered by the fee.
    The unamortized Membership Rewards fee balance is included in
    other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets (refer to
    Note 11).

Contra-revenue

The Company regularly makes payments through contractual
    arrangements with merchants, commercial card clients and certain
    other customers (collectively the  customers ).
    Payments to customers are generally classified as contra-revenue
    unless a specifically identifiable benefit (e.g., goods or
    services) is received by the Company in consideration for that
    payment and the fair value of such benefit is determinable and
    measurable. If no such benefit is identified, then the entire
    payment is classified as contra-revenue and included within
    total non-interest revenues in the Consolidated Statements of
    Income in the line item where the related transaction revenues
    are recorded (e.g., discount revenue, travel commissions and
    fees and other commissions and fees). If such a benefit is
    identified, then the payment is classified as expense up to the
    estimated fair value of the benefit.

Interest
    Income

Interest on loans owned is assessed using the average daily
    balance method. Interest is recognized based upon the loan
    principal amount outstanding in accordance with the terms of the
    applicable account agreement until the outstanding balance is
    paid or written-off.

Interest and dividends on investment securities primarily
    relates to the Company s performing fixed-income
    securities. Interest income is accrued as earned using the
    effective interest method, which adjusts the yield for security
    premiums and discounts, fees and other payments, so that a
    constant rate of return is recognized on the investment
    security s outstanding balance. Amounts are recognized
    until such time as a security is in default or when it is likely
    that future interest payments will not be received as scheduled.

Interest on deposits with banks and other is recognized as
    earned, and primarily relates to the placement of cash in
    interest-bearing time deposits, overnight sweep accounts, and
    other interest-bearing demand and call accounts.

Interest
    Expense

Interest expense includes interest incurred primarily to fund
    cardmember loans, charge card product receivables, general
    corporate purposes, and liquidity needs, and is recognized as
    incurred. Interest expense is divided principally into three
    categories: (i) deposits, which primarily relates to
    interest expense on deposits taken from customers and
    institutions, (ii) short-term borrowings, which primarily
    relates to interest expense on commercial paper, federal funds
    purchased, bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings, and
    (iii) long-term debt, which primarily relates to interest
    expense on the Company s long-term financing.

BALANCE
    SHEET

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash and amounts due from
    banks, interest-bearing bank balances, including securities
    purchased under resale agreements and other highly liquid
    investments with original maturities of 90 days or less.

Premises
    and Equipment

Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are
    carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Costs incurred
    during construction are capitalized and are depreciated once an
    asset is placed in service. Depreciation is generally computed
    using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives
    of assets, which range from 3 to 8 years for equipment.
    Premises are depreciated based upon their estimated useful life
    at the acquisition date, which generally ranges from 40 to
    60 years.

Leasehold improvements are depreciated using the straight-line
    method over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased
    facility or the economic life of the improvement, which ranges
    from 5 to 10 years. The Company maintains operating leases
    worldwide for facilities and equipment. Rent expense for
    facility leases is recognized ratably over the lease term, and
    is calculated to include adjustments for rent concessions, rent
    escalations and leasehold improvement allowances. The Company
    accounts for lease restoration obligations in accordance with
    applicable GAAP, which requires recognition of the fair value of
    restoration liabilities when incurred, and amortization of
    capitalized restoration costs over the lease term.

73

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Software
    development costs  

The Company capitalizes certain costs associated with the
    acquisition or development of internal-use software. Once the
    software is ready for its intended use, these costs are
    amortized on a straight-line basis over the software s
    estimated useful life, generally 5 years.

OTHER
    SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The following table identifies the Company s other
    significant accounting policies, the Note and page where a
    detailed description of each policy can be found.

Note 

Significant Accounting Policy 

Number 

Note Title 

Page 

Fair Value Measurements

Note 3

Fair Values

Page 76

Accounts Receivable

Note 4

Accounts Receivable and Loans

Page 78

Loans

Note 4

Accounts Receivable and Loans

Page 78

Reserves for Losses

Note 5

Reserves for Losses

Page 81

Investment Securities

Note 6

Investment Securities

Page 83

Securitization Income, Net; and Asset Securitization

Note 7

Asset Securitizations

Page 85

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Note 8

Other Assets

Page 87

Membership Rewards

Note 11

Other Liabilities

Page 92

Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities

Note 12

Derivatives and Hedging Activities

Page 92

Income Taxes

Note 17

Income Taxes

Page 101

Other Non-Interest Revenues

Note 19

Details of Certain Consolidated Statements of Income Lines

Page 103

Other, Net Expense

Note 19

Details of Certain Consolidated Statements of Income Lines

Page 103

Stock-based Compensation

Note 20

Stock Plans

Page 104

Legal Contingencies

Note 24

Commitments and Contingencies

Page 113

Reportable Operating Segments

Note 25

Reportable Operating Segments and Geographic Operations

Page 114

RECENTLY
    ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) recently issued
    Accounting Standards Update (ASU)
     No. 2010-20, 
    Receivables (Topic 310): Disclosures about the Credit Quality of
    Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses. This
    standard is intended to provide additional information to assist
    financial statement users in assessing an entity s credit
    risk exposures and evaluating the adequacy of its allowance for
    credit losses. As such, the standard amends existing guidance by
    requiring an entity to provide a greater level of disaggregated
    information about its financing receivables and its allowance
    for credit losses and includes new disclosures such as credit
    quality indicators, past due information and additional impaired
    loan data. Effective December 31, 2010, the Company adopted
    these amendments except for disclosures of activity within
    periods, which become effective for periods beginning
    January 1, 2011. Additionally, certain new disclosures for
    Troubled Debt Restructurings were not implemented because such
    disclosures have been deferred by ASU
     No. 2011-01, 
    Receivables (Topic 310): Deferral of the Effective Date of
    Disclosures about Troubled Debt Restructurings in Update
     No. 2010-20, 
    and are expected to be effective for periods beginning
    April 1, 2011.

In addition, the Company adopted the following standards:

ASU
     No. 2009-16, 
    Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860): Accounting for Transfers of
    Financial Assets, and

ASU
     No. 2009-17, 
    Consolidations (Topic 810): Improvements to Financial Reporting
    by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities.

These standards (generally referred to herein as new GAAP
    effective January 1, 2010) eliminated the concept of a
    qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE), therefore requiring
    these entities to be evaluated under the accounting guidance for
    consolidation of VIEs. In addition, ASU
     2009-17 
    required an entity to reconsider its previous consolidation
    conclusions reached under the VIE consolidation model, including
    (i) whether an entity is a VIE, (ii) whether the
    enterprise is the VIE s primary beneficiary, and
    (iii) the required financial statement disclosures.

Upon adoption of ASU
     2009-16  and
    ASU  2009-17, 
    the Company was required to change its accounting for the
    American Express Credit Account Master Trust (the Lending
    Trust), a previously unconsolidated VIE, which is now
    consolidated. As a result, beginning January 1, 2010, the
    securitized cardmember loans and related debt securities issued
    to third parties by the Lending Trust are included on the
    Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company continues
    to consolidate the American Express Issuance Trust (the Charge
    Trust). Prior period results have not been revised for the
    change in accounting for the Lending Trust. Refer to Note 7
    for further discussion.

74

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

CLASSIFICATION
    OF CASH BALANCES

The Company determined that in periods prior to June 30,
    2010, the Company misclassified certain book overdraft balances
    against cash balances on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such
    overdraft balances, which arise in the normal course of the
    Company s business activities, should have been classified
    as either accounts payable or other liabilities, depending on
    the underlying nature of the account. The Company has evaluated
    the effects of these misclassifications and concluded that they
    are not, individually or in the aggregate, material to any of
    the Company s previously issued quarterly or annual
    Consolidated Financial Statements. Nevertheless, the Company has
    elected to revise in this report and future filings its
    Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Statements of Cash
    Flows to correct the effects of these misclassifications.

The amounts on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of
    December 31, 2009 that have been revised are summarized
    below:

These balance sheet misclassifications further impacted amounts
    previously reported in prior period Consolidated Statements of
    Cash Flows, as summarized below:

Certain other reclassifications of prior period amounts have
    been made to conform to the current presentation.

NOTE 2

ACQUISITIONS
    AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

ACQUISITIONS

During the course of the year, the Company purchased Accertify
    (November 10, 2010) and Revolution Money
    (January 15, 2010) for a total consideration of
    $151 million and $305 million, respectively. Accertify
    is an on-line fraud solution provider and Revolution Money is a
    provider of secure
     person-to-person 
    payment services through an internet-based platform. These
    acquisitions did not have a significant impact on either the
    Company s consolidated results of operations or the
    segments in which they are reflected for the year ended
    December 31, 2010.

On March 28, 2008, the Company purchased Corporate Payment
    Services (CPS), General Electric Company s commercial card
    and corporate purchasing business unit.

The following table summarizes the assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed for these acquisitions as of the acquisition
    dates:

(a)

An insignificant portion of the
    receivables and intangible assets are also allocated to the USCS
    reportable operating segment.

DISCONTINUED
    OPERATIONS

On September 18, 2007, the Company entered into an
    agreement to sell its international banking subsidiary, American
    Express Bank Ltd. (AEB) to Standard Chartered PLC (Standard
    Chartered) and to sell American Express International Deposit
    Company (AEIDC) through a put/call agreement to Standard
    Chartered 18 months after the close of the AEB sale. The
    sale of AEB was completed on February 29, 2008. In the
    third quarter of 2008, AEIDC qualified to be reported as a
    discontinued operation. The sale of AEIDC was completed on
    September 10, 2009.

As of and for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    all of the operating results, assets and liabilities, and cash
    flows of AEB (except for certain components of AEB that were not
    sold) and AEIDC have been removed from the Corporate  
    Other segment and are presented separately in discontinued
    operations in the Company s Consolidated Financial
    Statements. The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
    have been adjusted to exclude discontinued operations unless
    otherwise noted.

75

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

NOTE 3

FAIR
    VALUES  

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to
    sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in
    an orderly transaction between market participants at the
    measurement date, and is based on the Company s principal
    or most advantageous market for the specific asset or liability.

GAAP provides for a three-level hierarchy of inputs to valuation
    techniques used to measure fair value, defined as follows:

Level 1   Inputs that are quoted prices
    (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active
    markets.

Level 2   Inputs other than quoted prices
    included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset
    or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially
    the full term of the asset or liability, including:

Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets

Quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in
    markets that are not active

Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the
    asset or liability

Inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data by correlation or other means

Level 3   Inputs that are unobservable and
    reflect the Company s own assumptions about the assumptions
    market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability
    based on the best information available in the circumstances
    (e.g., internally derived assumptions surrounding the timing and
    amount of expected cash flows).

The following table summarizes the Company s financial
    assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value on a
    recurring basis, categorized by GAAP s valuation hierarchy
    (as described in the preceding paragraphs), as of December 31:

(a)

Refer to Note 6 for the fair
    values of investment securities on a further disaggregated basis.

(b)

As a result of new GAAP effective
    January 1, 2010, the Company no longer presents the
    retained subordinated securities and interest-only strip within
    its Consolidated Financial Statements in periods subsequent to
    December 31, 2009. Refer to Note 7 for further details.

(c)

Refer to Note 12 for the fair
    values of derivative assets and liabilities on a further
    disaggregated basis. While derivative assets and derivative
    liabilities are presented gross in the table above, GAAP permits
    the netting of derivative assets and derivative liabilities when
    a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists between
    the Company and its derivative counterparty. As of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, $18 million and
    $33 million, respectively, of derivative assets and
    liabilities have been offset and presented net on the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets.

The table below presents a reconciliation of all assets and
    liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using
    significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) as of
    December 31, 2009, including realized and unrealized gains
    (losses) included in earnings and AOCI:

(a)

The Company did not measure any
    financial instruments at fair value using significantly
    unobservable inputs (Level 3) during the year ended
    December 31, 2010.

(b)

Represents cost basis of
    securitized loans.

(c)

Included in AOCI, net of taxes.

(d)

Included in securitization income,
    net.

76

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

GAAP requires disclosure of the estimated fair value of all
    financial instruments. A financial instrument is defined as
    cash, evidence of an ownership in an entity, or a contract
    between two entities to deliver cash or another financial
    instrument or to exchange other financial instruments. The
    disclosure requirements for the fair value of financial
    instruments exclude leases, equity method investments, affiliate
    investments, pension and benefit obligations, insurance
    contracts and all non-financial instruments.

VALUATION
    TECHNIQUES USED IN MEASURING FAIR VALUE

For the financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value
    on a recurring basis (categorized in the valuation hierarchy
    table on the previous page) the Company applies the following
    valuation techniques to measure fair value:

Investment
    Securities (Excluding Retained Subordinated 
    Securities and the Interest-Only Strip)

When available, quoted market prices in active markets are used
    to determine fair value. Such investment securities are
    classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.

When quoted prices in an active market are not available, the
    fair values for the Company s investment securities are
    obtained primarily from pricing services engaged by the Company,
    and the Company receives one price for each security. The fair
    values provided by the pricing services are estimated using
    pricing models, where the inputs to those models are based on
    observable market inputs. The inputs to the valuation techniques
    applied by the pricing services vary depending on the type of
    security being priced but are typically benchmark yields,
    benchmark security prices, credit spreads, prepayment speeds,
    reported trades and broker-dealer quotes, all with reasonable
    levels of transparency. The pricing services did not apply any
    adjustments to the pricing models used. In addition, the Company
    did not apply any adjustments to prices received from the
    pricing services. The Company classifies the prices obtained
    from the pricing services within Level 2 of the fair value
    hierarchy because the underlying inputs are directly observable
    from active markets or recent trades of similar securities in
    inactive markets. However, the pricing models used do entail a
    certain amount of subjectivity and therefore differing judgments
    in how the underlying inputs are modeled could result in
    different estimates of fair value.

The Company reaffirms its understanding of the valuation
    techniques used by its pricing services at least annually. In
    addition, the Company corroborates the prices provided by its
    pricing services to test their reasonableness by comparing their
    prices to valuations from different pricing sources as well as
    comparing prices to the sale prices received from sold
    securities. Refer to Note 6 for additional fair value
    information.

Retained
    Subordinated Securities

As of January 1, 2010, pursuant to changes in GAAP
    governing accounting for transfers of financial assets, the
    Company no longer has retained subordinated securities. The fair
    value of the Company s retained subordinated securities was
    determined using discounted cash flow models. The discount rate
    was based on an interest rate curve observable in the
    marketplace plus an unobservable credit spread for risks
    associated with these securities and other similar financial
    instruments. The Company classified such securities as
    Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy because the credit
    spreads were not observable due to market illiquidity for these
    securities and similar financial instruments.

Interest-Only
    Strip

As of January 1, 2010, pursuant to changes in GAAP
    governing accounting for transfers of financial assets, the
    Company no longer has interest-only strips. The fair value of
    the interest-only strip was the present value of estimated
    future positive excess spread expected to be generated by the
    securitized loans over the estimated remaining life of those
    loans. Management utilized certain estimates and assumptions to
    determine the fair value of the interest-only strip asset,
    including estimates for finance charge yield, credit losses,
    London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) (which determined future
    certificate interest costs), monthly payment rate and discount
    rate. On a quarterly basis, the Company compared the assumptions
    it used in calculating the fair value of its interest-only strip
    to observable market data when available, and to historical
    trends. The interest-only strip was classified within
    Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy due to the significance
    of the unobservable inputs used in valuing this asset.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments

The fair value of the Company s derivative financial
    instruments, which could be assets or liabilities on the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets, is estimated by a third-party
    valuation service that uses proprietary pricing models, or by
    internal pricing models. The pricing models do not contain a
    high level of subjectivity as the valuation techniques used do
    not require significant judgment, and inputs to those models are
    readily observable from actively quoted markets. The pricing
    models used are consistently applied and reflect the contractual
    terms of the derivatives, including the period of maturity, and
    market-based parameters such as interest rates, foreign exchange
    rates, equity indices or prices, and volatility.

Credit valuation adjustments are necessary when the market
    parameters, such as a benchmark curve, used to value derivatives
    are not indicative of the credit quality of the Company or its
    counterparties. The Company considers the counterparty credit
    risk by applying an observable forecasted default rate to the
    current exposure. Refer to Note 12 for additional fair
    value information.

77

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The following table discloses the estimated fair value for the
    Company s financial assets and financial liabilities that
    are not carried at fair value, as of December 31:

(a)

Includes fair values of cardmember
    receivables, loans and long-term debt of $8.1 billion,
    $33.2 billion and $23.6 billion, respectively, held by
    consolidated VIEs as of December 31, 2010. Refer to the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets for the related carrying values.

(b)

Includes fair values of cardmember
    receivables and long-term debt of $8.3 billion and
    $5.0 billion, respectively, held by a consolidated VIE as
    of December 31, 2009. Refer to the Consolidated Balance
    Sheets for the related carrying values.

The fair values of these financial instruments are estimates
    based upon the market conditions and perceived risks as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, and require management
    judgment. These figures may not be indicative of their future
    fair values. The fair value of the Company cannot be reliably
    estimated by aggregating the amounts presented.

The following methods were used to determine estimated fair
    values:

FINANCIAL
    ASSETS FOR WHICH CARRYING VALUES EQUAL OR APPROXIMATE FAIR VALUE

Financial assets for which carrying values equal or approximate
    fair value include cash and cash equivalents, cardmember
    receivables, accrued interest and certain other assets. For
    these assets, the carrying values approximate fair value because
    they are short term in duration or variable rate in nature.

FINANCIAL
    ASSETS CARRIED AT OTHER THAN FAIR VALUE

Loans,
    net

Loans are recorded at historical cost, less reserves, on the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets. In estimating the fair value for
    the Company s loans the principal market is assumed to be
    the securitization market, and the Company uses the hypothetical
    securitization price to determine the fair value of the
    portfolio. The securitization price is estimated from the
    assumed proceeds of the hypothetical securitization in the
    current market, adjusted for securitization uncertainties such
    as market conditions and liquidity.

FINANCIAL
    LIABILITIES FOR WHICH CARRYING VALUES EQUAL OR APPROXIMATE FAIR
    VALUE

Financial liabilities for which carrying values equal or
    approximate fair value include accrued interest, customer
    deposits (excluding certificates of deposit, which are described
    further below), Travelers Cheques outstanding, short-term
    borrowings and certain other liabilities for which the carrying
    values approximate fair value because they are short term in
    duration, variable rate in nature or have no defined maturity.

FINANCIAL
    LIABILITIES CARRIED AT OTHER THAN FAIR VALUE

Certificates
    of Deposit

Certificates of deposit (CDs) are recorded at their historical
    issuance cost on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Fair value is
    estimated using a discounted cash flow methodology based on the
    Company s current borrowing rates for similar types of CDs.

Long-term
    Debt

Long-term debt is recorded at historical issuance cost on the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets. Fair value is estimated using
    either quoted market prices or discounted cash flows based on
    the Company s current borrowing rates for similar types of
    borrowings.

NOTE 4

ACCOUNTS
    RECEIVABLE AND LOANS  

The Company s charge and lending payment card products
    result in the generation of cardmember receivables (from charge
    payment products) and cardmember loans (from lending payment
    products) which are described below.

CARDMEMBER
    AND OTHER RECEIVABLES

Cardmember receivables, representing amounts due from charge
    payment product customers, are recorded at the time a cardmember
    enters into a
     point-of-sale 
    transaction with a merchant. Charge card customers generally
    must pay the full amount billed each month. Each charge card
    transaction is authorized based on its likely economics
    reflecting cardmember s most recent credit information and
    spend patterns. Global limits are established to limit maximum
    exposure for high risk and some high spend charge cardmembers.
    Accounts of high risk,
     out-of-pattern 
    charge cardmembers can be monitored even if they are current.

Cardmember receivable balances are presented on the Consolidated
    Balance Sheets net of reserves for losses (refer to
    Note 5), and include principal and any related accrued fees.

78

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Accounts receivable as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 were
    as follows:

(a)

Includes $7.7 billion and
    $7.8 billion of gross cardmember receivables available to
    settle obligations of a consolidated VIE as of December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively.

(b)

Includes $0.5 billion of gross
    cardmember receivables available to settle obligations of a
    consolidated VIE as of December 31, 2010 and 2009.

(c)

Includes receivables primarily
    related to the Company s International Currency Card
    portfolios.

(d)

Includes approximately
    $11.7 billion and $10.4 billion of cardmember
    receivables outside the United States as of December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively.

(e)

Other receivables primarily
    represent amounts for tax-related receivables, amounts due from
    the Company s travel customers and suppliers, purchased
    joint venture receivables, third-party issuing partners, amounts
    due from certain merchants for billed discount revenue, accrued
    interest on investments and other receivables due to the Company
    in the ordinary course of business. As of December 31,
    2009, these amounts also include $1.9 billion of cash held
    in an unconsolidated VIE required for daily settlement
    requirements. Beginning January 1, 2010, this VIE is
    consolidated by the Company and cash held by this consolidated
    VIE is considered restricted cash included in other assets on
    the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Refer to
    Note 7 for additional details.

CARDMEMBER
    AND OTHER LOANS

Cardmember loans, representing amounts due from lending payment
    product customers, are recorded at the time a cardmember enters
    into a
     point-of-sale 
    transaction with a merchant or when a charge card customer
    enters into an extended payment arrangement. The Company s
    lending portfolios primarily include revolving loans to
    cardmembers obtained through either their credit card accounts
    or the lending on charge feature of their charge card accounts.
    These loans have a range of terms such as credit limits,
    interest rates, fees and payment structures, which can be
    adjusted over time based on new information about cardmembers
    and in accordance with applicable regulations and the respective
    product s terms and conditions. Cardmembers holding
    revolving loans are typically required to make monthly payments
    greater than or equal to certain pre-established amounts. The
    amounts that cardmembers choose to revolve are subject to
    finance charges. When cardmembers fall behind their required
    payments, their accounts will be monitored.

Cardmember loans are presented on the Consolidated Balance
    Sheets net of reserves for losses and unamortized net card fees
    and include accrued interest receivable and fees. The
    Company s policy generally is to cease accruing for
    interest receivable on a cardmember loan at the time the account
    is written off. The Company establishes reserves for interest
    that the Company believes will not be collected.

Loans as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 consisted of:

(a)

As of December 31, 2010,
    includes approximately $34.7 billion of gross cardmember
    loans available to settle obligations of a consolidated VIE. As
    of December 31, 2009, includes approximately
    $8.0 billion for an undivided, pro-rata interest in an
    unconsolidated VIE (historically referred to as
     seller s interest ). Refer to Note 7 for
    additional details.

(b)

Cardmember loan balance is net of
    unamortized net card fees of $134 million and
    $114 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively.

(c)

Other loans primarily represent
    small business installment loans, a store card portfolio whose
    billed business is not processed on the Company s network
    and small business loans associated with the acquisition of CPS.

CARDMEMBER
    LOANS AND CARDMEMBER RECEIVABLES AGING

Generally a cardmember account is considered past due if payment
    is not received within 30 days after the billing statement
    date. The following table represents the aging of cardmember
    loans and receivables as of December 31, 2010:

(a)

For cardmember receivables in
    International Card Services and Global Commercial Services,
    delinquency data is tracked based on days past billing status
    rather than days past due. A cardmember account is considered
    90 days past billing if payment has not been received
    within 90 days of the cardmember s billing statement
    date. In addition, if the Company initiates collection
    procedures on an account prior to the account becoming
    90 days past billing the associated cardmember receivable
    balance is considered as 90 days past billing. These
    amounts are shown above as 90+ Days Past Due for presentation
    purposes.

(b)

Historically, data for periods
    prior to 90 days past billing are not available due to
    system constraints. Therefore, it has not been utilized for risk
    management purposes. The balances that are current  
    89 days past due can be derived as the difference between
    the Total and the 90+ Days Past Due balances.

79

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

CREDIT
    QUALITY INDICATORS FOR LOANS AND RECEIVABLES

The following table presents the key credit quality indicators
    for the years ended December 31:

(a)

Effective January 1, 2010, the
    Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember
    receivables in International Card Services and Global Commercial
    Services are written off to when they are 180 days past due
    or earlier, consistent with applicable bank regulatory guidance
    and the write-off methodology adopted for U.S. Card Services in
    the fourth quarter of 2008. Previously, receivables were written
    off when they were 360 days past billing or earlier. The
    net write-offs for the first quarter of 2010 include net
    write-offs of approximately $60 million for International
    Card Services and $48 million for Global Commercial
    Services resulting from this write-off methodology change.

(b)

Beginning with the first quarter of
    2010, the Company has revised the net loss ratio to exclude net
    write-offs related to unauthorized transactions, consistent with
    the methodology for calculation of the net write-off rate for
    U.S. Card Services. The metrics for prior periods have not been
    revised for this change as it was deemed immaterial.

Refer to Note 5 for other factors, including external
    environmental factors, that management considers as part of its
    evaluation process for reserves for losses.

PLEDGED
    LOANS AND RECEIVABLES

Certain cardmember loans and receivables totaling approximately
    $42.9 billion as of December 31, 2010 are pledged by
    the Company to its Lending and Charge Trusts (including certain
    loans sold to the Trusts by the Company s bank
    subsidiaries; refer to Note 7).

IMPAIRED
    LOANS AND RECEIVABLES

Impaired loans and receivables are defined by GAAP as individual
    larger balance or homogeneous pools of smaller balance
    restructured loans and receivables for which it is probable that
    the lender will be unable to collect all amounts due according
    to the original contractual terms of the loan and receivable
    agreement. The Company considers impaired loans and receivables
    to include: (i) loans over 90 days past due still
    accruing interest, (ii) non-accrual loans, and
    (iii) loans and receivables modified in a troubled debt
    restructuring (TDR).

The Company may modify cardmember loans and receivables to
    minimize losses to the Company while providing cardmembers with
    temporary or permanent financial relief. Such modifications may
    include reducing the interest rate or delinquency fees on the
    loans and receivables
     and/or 
    placing the cardmember on a fixed payment plan not exceeding
    60 months. If the cardmember does not comply with the
    modified terms, then the loan or receivable agreement generally
    reverts back to its original terms. Modification programs can be
    long-term (more than 12 months) or short term
    (12 months or less). The Company has classified such
    cardmember loans and receivables in these modification programs
    as TDRs.

The performance of a TDR is closely monitored to understand its
    impact on the Company s reserve for losses. Though the
    ultimate success of these modification programs remains
    uncertain, the Company believes they improve the cumulative loss
    performance of such loans and receivables.

Reserves for a TDR are determined by the difference between cash
    flows expected to be received from the cardmember discounted at
    the original effective interest rates and the carrying value of
    the cardmember loan or receivable balance.

80

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The following tables provide additional information with respect
    to the Company s impaired cardmember loans and receivables
    as of December 31:

(a)

The Company s policy is
    generally to accrue interest through the date of charge-off (at
    180 days past due). The Company establishes reserves for
    interest that the Company believes will not be collected.

(b)

Non-accrual loans not in
    modification programs include certain cardmember loans placed
    with outside collection agencies for which the Company has
    ceased accruing interest.

(c)

The total loans and receivables
    modified as a TDR include $655 million and
    $586 million that are non-accrual and $7 million and
    $1 million that are past due 90 days and still
    accruing interest as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. These amounts are excluded from the previous two
    columns.

(d)

Unpaid principal balance consists
    of cardmember charges billed and excludes other amounts charged
    directly by the Company such as interest and fees.

(e)

Reserves for losses for loans and
    receivables modified in a TDR are determined by the difference
    between cash flows expected to be received from the cardmember
    discounted at the original effective interest rate and the
    carrying value of the cardmember balance.

(f)

Detailed data for these portfolios
    were not required prior to December 31, 2010. This
    information is not available for 2009.

(g)

The increase in impaired loans was
    due to the adoption of new GAAP effective January 1, 2010,
    which resulted in the consolidation of the Lending Trust as
    discussed further in Note 1. As a result of these changes,
    amounts as of December 31, 2010 include impaired loans and
    receivables for both the Charge Trust and Lending Trust;
    correspondingly, amounts as of December 31, 2009 only
    include impaired loans and receivables for the Charge Trust and
    the seller s interest portion of the Lending Trust. Amounts
    as of both balance sheet dates also include impaired loans and
    receivables associated with other non-securitized portfolios.

(h)

These disclosures either do not
    apply or are not significant for cardmember receivables in
    International Card Services and Global Commercial Services.

NOTE 5

RESERVES
    FOR LOSSES  

RESERVES
    FOR LOSSES   CARDMEMBER RECEIVABLES AND LOANS

Reserves for losses relating to cardmember loans and receivables
    represent management s best estimate of the losses inherent
    in the Company s outstanding portfolio of loans and
    receivables. Management s evaluation process requires
    certain estimates and judgments.

Reserves for these losses are primarily based upon models that
    analyze portfolio performance and reflect management s
    judgment regarding overall reserve adequacy. The analytic models
    take into account several factors, including average losses and
    recoveries over an appropriate historical period. Management
    considers whether to adjust the analytic models for specific
    factors such as increased risk in certain portfolios, impact of
    risk management initiatives on portfolio performance and
    concentration of credit risk based on factors such as tenure,
    industry or geographic regions. In addition, management adjusts
    the reserves for losses on cardmember loans for other external
    environmental factors including leading economic and market
    indicators such as the unemployment rate, Gross Domestic Product
    (GDP), home price indices, non-farm payrolls, personal
    consumption expenditures index, consumer confidence index,
    purchasing managers index, bankruptcy filings and the legal and
    regulatory environment. Generally, due to the short-term nature
    of cardmember receivables, the impact of additional external
    factors on the inherent losses within the cardmember receivable
    portfolio is not significant. As part of this evaluation
    process, management also considers various reserve coverage
    metrics, such as reserves as a percentage of past due amounts,
    reserves as a percentage of cardmember receivables or loans and
    net write-off coverage.

Cardmember receivables balances are written off when management
    deems amounts to be uncollectible and is generally determined by
    the number of days past due, which is generally no later than
    180 days past due. Receivables in bankruptcy or owed by
    deceased individuals are written off upon notification.
    Recoveries are recognized on a cash basis.

81

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Changes
    in Cardmember Receivables Reserve for Losses

The following table presents changes in the cardmember
    receivables reserve for losses for the years ended December 31:

(a)

Represents loss provisions for
    cardmember receivables consisting of principal (resulting from
    authorized transactions) and fee reserve components.

(b)

Primarily represents loss
    provisions for cardmember receivables resulting from
    unauthorized transactions.

(c)

Represents write-offs consisting of
    principal (resulting from authorized transactions) and fee
    components, less recoveries of $357 million,
    $349 million and $187 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and
    2009, these amounts also include net write-offs for cardmember
    receivables resulting from unauthorized transactions.

(d)

Through December 31, 2009,
    cardmember receivables in the International Card Services (ICS)
    and Global Commercial Services (GCS) segments were written off
    when 360 days past billing or earlier. During the first
    quarter of 2010, consistent with applicable bank regulatory
    guidance, the Company modified its methodology to write off
    cardmember receivables in the ICS and GCS segments when
    180 days past due or earlier. Therefore, net write-offs for
    cardmember receivables for the first quarter of 2010 included
    approximately $108 million resulting from this change in
    write-off methodology. The impact of this change to the
    provision for charge card losses was not material.

(e)

In the fourth quarter of 2008, the
    Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember
    receivables in U.S. Card Services are written off to when
    180 days past due, consistent with applicable regulatory
    guidance. Previously, receivables were written off when
    360 days past due. The net write-offs for 2008 include
    approximately $341 million resulting from this write-off
    methodology change.

(f)

For the year ended
    December 31, 2010, these amounts include net write-offs of
    cardmember receivables resulting from unauthorized transactions.
    For all periods these amounts include foreign currency
    translation adjustments.

(g)

Represents receivables modified in
    a TDR and related reserves. Refer to the Impaired Loans and
    Receivables discussion in Note 4 for further information.

(h)

Amounts were not available for
    disclosure.

Changes
    in Cardmember Loans Reserve for Losses

The following table presents changes in the cardmember loans
    reserve for losses for the years ended December 31:

(a)

Represents loss provisions for
    cardmember loans consisting of principal (resulting from
    authorized transactions), interest and fee reserves components.

(b)

Primarily represents loss
    provisions for cardmember loans resulting from unauthorized
    transactions.

(c)

Cardmember loans net
    write-offs   principal for 2010, 2009 and 2008 include
    recoveries of $568 million, $327 million and
    $301 million, respectively. Recoveries of interest and fees
    were de minimis.

(d)

These amounts include net
    write-offs related to unauthorized transactions and foreign
    currency translation adjustments.

(e)

Represents loans modified in a TDR
    and related reserves. Refer to the Impaired Loans and
    Receivables discussion in Note 4 for further information.

(f)

Amounts were not available for
    disclosure.

82

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

NOTE 6

INVESTMENT
    SECURITIES  

Investment securities include debt and equity securities and are
    classified as available for sale. The Company s investment
    securities, principally debt securities, are carried at fair
    value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with unrealized gains
    (losses) recorded in AOCI, net of income tax provisions
    (benefits). Realized gains and losses are recognized in results
    of operations upon disposition of the securities using the
    specific identification method on a trade date basis. Refer to
    Note 3 for a description of the Company s methodology
    for determining the fair value of its investment securities.

The following is a summary of investment securities as of
    December 31:

(a)

The December 31, 2010 and 2009
    balances include, on a cost basis, $1.3 billion and
    $1.1 billion, respectively, of corporate debt obligations
    issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP)
    that are guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
    (FDIC).

(b)

As a result of the adoption of new
    GAAP effective January 1, 2010, the Company no longer
    presents the retained subordinated securities within its
    Consolidated Financial Statements in periods subsequent to
    December 31, 2009. The December 31, 2009, balance
    consists of investments in retained subordinated securities
    issued by unconsolidated VIEs related to the Company s
    cardmember loan securitization programs. Refer to Note 7
    for further details.

(c)

Represents mortgage-backed
    securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae.

(d)

Represents the Company s
    investment in Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC).

(e)

Other is comprised of investments
    in various mutual funds.

OTHER-THAN-TEMPORARY 
    IMPAIRMENT

Realized losses are recognized upon management s
    determination that a decline in fair value is other than
    temporary. The determination of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment is a subjective process, requiring the use of
    judgments and assumptions regarding the amount and timing of
    recovery. The Company reviews and evaluates its investments at
    least quarterly and more often, as market conditions may
    require, to identify investments that have indications of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments. It is reasonably possible that a change in estimate
    could occur in the near term relating to
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment. Accordingly, the Company considers several factors
    when evaluating debt securities for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment including the determination of the extent to which
    the decline in fair value of the security is due to increased
    default risk for the specific issuer or market interest rate
    risk. With respect to increased default risk, the Company
    assesses the collectibility of principal and interest payments
    by monitoring issuers  credit ratings, related changes to
    those ratings, specific credit events associated with the
    individual issuers as well as the credit ratings of a financial
    guarantor, where applicable, and the extent to which amortized
    cost exceeds fair value and the duration and size of that
    difference. With respect to market interest rate risk, including
    benchmark interest rates and credit spreads, the Company
    assesses whether it has the intent to sell the securities and
    whether it is more likely than not that the Company will not be
    required to sell the securities before recovery of any
    unrealized losses.

83

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The following table provides information about the
    Company s investment securities with gross unrealized
    losses and the length of time that individual securities have
    been in a continuous unrealized loss position as of December 31:

The following table summarizes the gross unrealized losses due
    to temporary impairments by ratio of fair value to amortized
    cost as of December 31:

The gross unrealized losses on state and municipal securities
    and all other debt securities can be attributed to higher credit
    spreads generally for state and municipal securities, higher
    credit spreads for specific issuers, changes in market benchmark
    interest rates, or a combination thereof, all as compared to
    those prevailing when the investment securities were acquired.

In assessing default risk on these investment securities,
    excluding the Company s retained subordinated securities,
    the Company has qualitatively considered the key factors
    identified above and determined that it expects to collect all
    of the contractual cash flows due on the investment securities.
    In assessing default risk on the retained subordinated
    securities in 2009, the Company analyzed the projected cash
    flows of the Lending Trust and determined that it expected to
    collect all of the contractual cash flows due on the investment
    securities.

Overall, for the investment securities in gross unrealized loss
    positions identified above, (a) the Company does not intend
    to sell the investment securities, (b) it is more likely
    than not that the Company will not be required to sell the
    investment securities before recovery of the unrealized losses,
    and (c) the Company expects that the contractual principal
    and interest will be received on the investment securities. As a
    result, the Company recognized no
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments during the periods presented.

SUPPLEMENTAL
    INFORMATION

Gross realized gains and losses on the sales of investment
    securities, included in other non-interest revenues, were as
    follows:

(a)

The 2009 gains primarily represent
    the gain from the sale of 50 percent of the Company s
    investment in ICBC.

Contractual maturities of investment securities, excluding
    equity securities and other securities, as of December 31,
    2010, were as follows:

The expected payments on state and municipal obligations and
    mortgage-backed securities may not coincide with their

84

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

contractual maturities because the issuers have the right to
    call or prepay certain obligations.

NOTE 7

ASSET
    SECURITIZATIONS  

CHARGE
    TRUST AND LENDING TRUST

The Company periodically securitizes cardmember receivables and
    loans arising from its card business through the transfer of
    those assets to securitization trusts. The trusts then issue
    securities to third-party investors, collateralized by the
    transferred assets.

Cardmember receivables are transferred to the Charge Trust and
    cardmember loans are transferred to the Lending Trust. As of
    December 31, 2009 and for all prior periods, cardmember
    receivables transferred to the Charge Trust did not qualify as
    accounting sales and accordingly, the Charge Trust was
    consolidated by the Company. As a result, securitized cardmember
    receivables and the related debt securities issued to third
    parties by the Charge Trust were included on the Company s
    Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Lending Trust met the criteria
    of a QSPE for GAAP in effect through December 31, 2009 and,
    accordingly, cardmember loans transferred to the Lending Trust
    qualified as accounting sales. As a result, when cardmember
    loans were sold through securitizations, the Company removed the
    loans from its Consolidated Balance Sheets and recognized a gain
    or loss on sale, recorded certain retained interests in the
    securitization (i.e., retained subordinated securities and an
    interest-only strip asset) and received an undivided pro-rata
    interest in the excess loans held in the Lending Trust
    (historically referred to as  seller s interest ).

Upon adoption of new GAAP effective January 1, 2010, the
    Company continues to consolidate the Charge Trust. In addition,
    the Company was required to change its accounting for the
    Lending Trust, which is now consolidated. As a result, beginning
    January 1, 2010, the securitized cardmember loans and the
    related debt securities issued to third parties by the Lending
    Trust are included on the Company s Consolidated Balance
    Sheets. Prior period Consolidated Financial Statements have not
    been revised for this accounting change.

The Charge Trust and the Lending Trust are consolidated by
    American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. (TRS),
    which is a consolidated subsidiary of the Company. The trusts
    are considered VIEs as they have insufficient equity at risk to
    finance their activities, which are to issue securities that are
    collateralized by the underlying cardmember receivables and
    loans.

TRS, in its role as servicer of the Charge Trust and the Lending
    Trust, has the power to direct the most significant activity of
    the trusts, which is the collection of the underlying cardmember
    receivables and loans in the trusts. In addition, TRS owns
    approximately $1.4 billion of subordinated securities
    issued by the Lending Trust as of December 31, 2010. These
    subordinated securities have the obligation to absorb losses of
    the Lending Trust and provide the right to receive benefits from
    the Lending Trust, both of which are significant to the VIE.
    TRS  role as servicer for the Charge Trust does not provide
    it with a significant obligation to absorb losses or a
    significant right to receive benefits. However, TRS 
    position as the parent company of the entities that transferred
    the receivables to the Charge Trust makes it the party most
    closely related to the Charge Trust. Based on these
    considerations, TRS was determined to be the primary beneficiary
    of both the Charge Trust and the Lending Trust.

The debt securities issued by the Charge Trust and the Lending
    Trust are non-recourse to the Company. Securitized cardmember
    receivables and loans held by the Charge Trust and the Lending
    Trust are available only for payment of the debt securities or
    other obligations issued or arising in the securitization
    transactions. The long-term debt of each trust is payable only
    out of collections on their respective underlying securitized
    assets.

There was approximately $9.0 million and $1.8 billion
    of restricted cash held by the Charge Trust as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and approximately
    $3.7 billion of restricted cash held by the Lending Trust
    as of December 31, 2010 included in other assets on the
    Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Also, as of
    December 31, 2009, other receivables on the Company s
    Consolidated Balance Sheet included $1.9 billion of
    restricted cash held in the Lending Trust. These amounts relate
    to collections of cardmember receivables and loans to be used by
    the trusts to fund future expenses, and obligations, including
    interest paid on investor certificates, credit losses and
    upcoming debt maturities.

85

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

LENDING
    TRUST   IMPACT ON THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

The following table summarizes the major balance sheet impacts,
    including adjustments associated with the adoption of new GAAP
    effective January 1, 2010, for the consolidation of the
    Lending Trust:

The primary changes to the Company s Consolidated Balance
    Sheets were:

An increase to cardmember loans (including impaired loans and
    pledged loans) for the cardmember loans held by the Lending
    Trust;

An increase to cardmember loans for the subordinated accrued
    interest receivable for cardmember loans held by the Lending
    Trust, with a corresponding decrease in other assets;

Establishment of a cardmember reserve for losses for the
    additional cardmember loans;

The elimination in consolidation of the Company s retained
    subordinated securities against the debt securities issued by
    the Lending Trust;

The elimination of the interest-only strip;

An increase to long-term debt for the debt securities issued by
    the Lending Trust;

A reduction to shareholders  equity, primarily for the
    after-tax effect of establishing the additional reserve for
    losses on cardmember loans, and for reversing the unrealized
    gains of the retained subordinated securities.

CHARGE
    TRUST AND LENDING TRUST TRIGGERING EVENTS

Under the respective terms of the Charge Trust and the Lending
    Trust agreements, the occurrence of certain events could result
    in establishment of reserve funds, or in a worst-case scenario,
    early amortization of investor certificates. As of
    December 31, 2010, no triggering events have occurred
    resulting in funding of reserve accounts or early amortization.

The Company announced in the second quarter of 2009 that certain
    actions affecting outstanding series of securities issued by the
    Lending Trust were completed in order to adjust the credit
    enhancement structure of substantially all of the outstanding
    series of securities previously issued by the Lending Trust. One
    of these enhancements was the designation of a percentage of new
    principal receivables arising from accounts in the Lending Trust
    as  Discount Option Receivables  (as defined in the
    Lending Trust documentation). The designated percentage was
    reduced to zero percent in the third quarter of 2010 given that
    the trust excess spread had exceeded pre-determined targets.

SECURITIZATION
    INCOME, NET

As a result of the adoption of new GAAP effective
    January 1, 2010, the Company no longer recognizes
    securitization income, net. The components of securitization
    income, net for the cardmember loans and long-term debt, are now
    recorded in other commissions and fees, interest income and
    interest expense.

The following table summarizes the activity related to
    securitized loans reported in securitization income, net, prior
    to adoption of the new accounting standards:

(a)

Excess spread, net was the net cash
    flow from interest and fee collections allocated to the
    investors  interests after deducting the interest paid on
    investor certificates, credit losses, contractual servicing
    fees, other expenses, and the changes in the fair value of the
    interest-only strip. This amount excludes issuer rate fees on
    the securitized accounts, which were recorded in discount
    revenue in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income.

(b)

Excludes $201 million and
    $(393) million of impact from cardmember loan sales and
    maturities for 2009, reflected in the provisions for losses for
    the period. Excludes $446 million and $(177) million
    of impact from cardmember loan sales and maturities for 2008,
    reflected in the provisions for losses for the period.

86

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

RETAINED
    INTERESTS IN SECURITIZED ASSETS

As of December 31, 2009, the Company retained subordinated
    interests in the securitized cardmember loans. These interests
    included one or more A-rated, BBB-rated and unrated investments
    in tranches of the securitization (subordinated securities) of
    $3.6 billion and an interest-only strip of
    $20 million. The subordinated securities were accounted for
    at fair value as
     available-for-sale 
    investment securities and were reported in investments on the
    Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets with unrealized gains
    (losses) recorded in AOCI. The interest-only strip was accounted
    for at fair value and was reported in other assets on the
    Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets with changes in fair
    value recorded in securitization income, net in the
    Company s Consolidated Statements of Income.

NOTE 8

OTHER
    ASSETS  

The following is a summary of other assets as of December 31:

(a)

Includes restricted cash of
    $3.7 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, which is primarily held for
    certain asset-backed securitization maturities.

(b)

Refer to Notes 17 and 12 for a
    discussion of deferred tax assets, net, and derivative assets,
    respectively, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. Derivative
    assets reflect the effect of master netting agreements.

(c)

Includes prepaid miles and reward
    points acquired from airline and other partners of approximately
    $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009.

(d)

Upon the adoption of new GAAP on
    January 1, 2010, subordinated accrued interest receivable
    is no longer recorded in other assets and is now recorded in
    cardmember loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

GOODWILL

Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost of an
    acquired company over the fair value of assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed. The Company assigns goodwill to its
    reporting units for the purpose of impairment testing. A
    reporting unit is defined as an operating segment, or a business
    one level below an operating segment for which complete,
    discrete financial information is available that management
    regularly reviews. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment
    annually as of June 30 and between annual tests if events occur
    or circumstances change that more likely than not reduce the
    fair value of reporting units below their carrying amounts. The
    goodwill impairment test utilizes a two-step approach. The first
    step identifies whether there is potential impairment by
    comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to the carrying
    amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting
    unit is less than its carrying amount, the second step of the
    impairment test is required to measure the amount of any
    impairment loss. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, goodwill
    was not impaired and there were no accumulated impairment losses.

Goodwill impairment testing involves management judgment,
    requiring an assessment of whether the carrying value of the
    reporting unit can be supported by the fair value of the
    individual reporting unit using widely accepted valuation
    techniques, such as the market approach (earnings multiples or
    transaction multiples) or income approach (discounted cash flow
    methods). The fair values of the reporting units were determined
    using a combination of valuation techniques consistent with the
    income approach and the market approach.

When preparing discounted cash flow models under the income
    approach, the Company uses internal forecasts to estimate future
    cash flows expected to be generated by the reporting units.
    Actual results may differ from forecasted results. The Company
    uses the expected cost of equity financing, estimated using a
    capital asset pricing model, to discount future cash flows for
    each reporting unit. The Company believes the discount rates
    used appropriately reflect the risks and uncertainties in the
    financial markets generally and specifically in the
    Company s internally developed forecasts. Further, to
    assess the reasonableness of the valuations derived from the
    discounted cash flow models, the Company also analyzes
    market-based multiples for similar industries of the reporting
    unit, where available.

87

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill reported in the
    Company s reportable operating segments and
    Corporate   Other were as follows:

(a)

Comprised of $131 million and
    $184 million for the acquisition of Accertify Inc. and
    Revolution Money Inc., respectively. Refer to Note 2 for
    further discussion.

OTHER
    INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful
    lives of 1 to 22 years. The Company reviews intangible
    assets for impairment quarterly and whenever events and
    circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be
    recoverable. In addition, on an annual basis, the Company
    performs an impairment evaluation of all intangible assets by
    assessing the recoverability of the asset values based on the
    cash flows generated by the relevant assets or asset groups. An
    impairment is recognized if the carrying amount is not
    recoverable and exceeds the asset s fair value.

The components of other intangible assets were as follows:

Amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008 was $176 million, $140 million and
    $83 million, respectively. Intangible assets acquired in
    2010 and 2009 are being amortized, on average, over 8 years
    and 5 years, respectively.

Estimated amortization expense for other intangible assets over
    the next five years is as follows:

OTHER

The Company has $197 million and $168 million in
    affordable housing partnership interests as of December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively, included in other assets in the
    table above. The Company is a limited partner and typically has
    a less than 50 percent interest in the affordable housing
    partnerships.

These partnership interests are accounted for in accordance with
    GAAP governing equity method investments and joint ventures.

88

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

NOTE 9

CUSTOMER
    DEPOSITS  

As of December 31, customer deposits were categorized as
    interest-bearing or non-interest-bearing deposits as follows:

The customer deposits were aggregated by deposit type offered by
    the Company as of December 31 as follows:

The scheduled maturities of all certificates of deposit as of
    December 31, 2010 were as follows:

As of December 31, certificates of deposit in denominations
    of $100,000 or more were as follows:

NOTE 10

DEBT  

SHORT-TERM
    BORROWINGS

The Company s short-term borrowings outstanding, defined as
    borrowings with original maturities of less than one year, as of
    December 31 were as follows:

(a)

For floating-rate debt issuances,
    the stated and effective interest rates are based on the
    floating rates in effect as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. These rates may not be indicative of future
    interest rates.

(b)

Effective interest rates are only
    presented if swaps are in place to hedge the underlying debt.
    There were no swaps in place as of December 31, 2010.

(c)

Includes interest-bearing
    overdrafts with banks of $966 million and $277 million
    as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In
    addition, balances include certain book overdrafts (i.e.,
    primarily timing differences arising in the ordinary course of
    business), short-term borrowings from banks, as well as
    interest-bearing amounts due to merchants in accordance with
    merchant service agreements.

(d)

The Company did not have any
    federal funds purchased as of December 31, 2010 and 2009.

89

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

LONG-TERM
    DEBT

The Company s long-term debt outstanding, defined as debt
    with original maturities of one year or greater, as of December
    31 was as follows:

(a)

The outstanding balances include
    (i) unamortized discounts (ii) the impact of movements
    in exchange rates on foreign currency denominated debt
    ($0.6 billion and $1.2 billion as of December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively), and (iii) the impact of fair
    value hedge accounting on certain fixed rate notes that have
    been swapped to floating rate through the use of interest rate
    swaps. Under fair value hedge accounting, the outstanding
    balances on these fixed rate notes are adjusted to reflect the
    impact of changes in fair value due to changes in interest
    rates. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the impact on
    long-term debt due to fair value hedge accounting was an
    increase of $0.8 billion and $0.6 billion,
    respectively. Refer to Note 12 for more details on the
    Company s treatment of fair value hedges.

(b)

For floating rate debt issuances,
    the stated and effective interest rates are based on the
    floating rates in effect as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. These rates may not be indicative of future
    interest rates.

(c)

Effective interest rates are only
    presented when swaps are in place to hedge the underlying debt.

(d)

The maturity date will
    automatically be extended to September 1, 2066, except in
    the case of either (i) a prior redemption or (ii) a
    default. See further discussion below.

(e)

The conduit facility expires on
    December 15, 2013; the Company is required to pay down the
    balance one month after the expiry of the facility.

(f)

Upon adoption of new GAAP effective
    January 1, 2010, the Lending Trust was consolidated. The
    December 31, 2009 non-consolidated outstanding balance was
    $25.0 billion and the year-end stated rate was
    0.87 percent.

(g)

Includes $132 million and
    $87 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively, related to lease transactions.

90

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Parent Company had
    $750 million principal outstanding of Subordinated
    Debentures that accrue interest at an annual rate of
    6.8 percent until September 1, 2016, and at an annual
    rate of three-month LIBOR plus 2.23 percent thereafter. At
    the Company s option, the Subordinated Debentures are
    redeemable for cash after September 1, 2016 at
    100 percent of the principal amount plus any accrued but
    unpaid interest. If the Company fails to achieve specified
    performance measures, it will be required to issue common shares
    and apply the net proceeds to make interest payments on the
    Subordinated Debentures. No dividends on the Company s
    common or preferred shares could be paid until such interest
    payments are made. The Company would fail to meet these specific
    performance measures if (i) the Company s tangible
    common equity is less than 4 percent of total adjusted
    assets for the most recent quarter or (ii) if the trailing
    two quarters  consolidated net income is equal to or less
    than zero and tangible common equity as of the trigger
    determination date, and as of the end of the quarter end six
    months prior, has in each case declined by 10 percent or
    more from tangible common equity as of the end of the quarter
    18 months prior to the trigger determination date. The
    Company met the specified performance measures in 2010.

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company was not in
    violation of any of its debt covenants.

Aggregate annual maturities on long-term debt obligations (based
    on final maturity dates) as of December 31, 2010 were as
    follows:

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company maintained
    total bank lines of credit of $10.6 billion and
    $12.2 billion, respectively. Of the total credit lines,
    $6.5 billion and $9.0 billion were unutilized, and for
    the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively,
    the Company paid $7.7 million and $6.8 million in fees
    to maintain these lines. Unutilized amounts of $5.7 billion
    and $8.2 billion supported commercial paper borrowings as
    of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011 and
    2012, respectively, $3.3 billion and $7.3 billion of
    these credit facilities will expire.

The availability of these credit lines is subject to the
    Company s compliance with certain financial covenants,
    including the maintenance by the Company of consolidated
    tangible net worth of at least $4.1 billion, the
    maintenance by American Express Credit Corporation (Credco) of a
    1.25 ratio of combined earnings and fixed charges to fixed
    charges, and the compliance by American Express Centurion Bank
    (Centurion Bank) and American Express Bank, FSB (FSB) with
    applicable regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. As of
    December 31, 2010, the Company s consolidated tangible
    net worth was approximately $13.1 billion, Credco s
    ratio of combined earnings and fixed charges to fixed charges
    was 1.54 and Centurion Bank and FSB each exceeded their
    regulatory capital adequacy guidelines.

Additionally, the Company maintained a
     3-year 
    committed, revolving, secured financing facility which gives the
    Company the right to sell up to $3.0 billion face amount of
    eligible notes issued from the Charge Trust at any time through
    December 16, 2013. As of December 31, 2010,
    $2.5 billion was drawn on this facility.

These committed facilities do not contain material adverse
    change clauses and the facilities may not be terminated should
    there be a change in the Company s credit rating.

The Company paid total interest primarily related to short- and
    long-term debt, corresponding interest rate swaps and customer
    deposits of $2.4 billion, $2.3 billion and
    $3.5 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

91

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

NOTE 11

OTHER
    LIABILITIES  

The following is a summary of other liabilities as of December
    31:

(a)

Employee-related liabilities
    include employee benefit plan obligations and incentive
    compensation.

(b)

Rebate accruals include payments to
    third-party card issuing partners and cash-back reward costs.

(c)

Other includes accruals for general
    operating expenses, litigation, client incentives, advertising
    and promotion, derivatives, restructuring and reengineering
    reserves.

MEMBERSHIP
    REWARDS

The Membership Rewards program allows enrolled cardmembers to
    earn points that can be redeemed for a broad range of rewards
    including travel, entertainment, retail certificates and
    merchandise. The Company establishes balance sheet liabilities
    which represent the estimated cost of points earned to date that
    are ultimately expected to be redeemed. These liabilities
    reflect management s best estimate of the cost of future
    redemptions. An ultimate redemption rate and weighted average
    cost per point are key factors used to approximate the
    Membership Rewards liability. Management uses models to estimate
    ultimate redemption rates based on historical redemption data,
    card product type, year of program enrollment, enrollment tenure
    and card spend levels. The weighted-average cost per point is
    determined using actual redemptions during the previous
    12 months, adjusted as appropriate for recent changes in
    redemption costs.

The provision for the cost of Membership Rewards points is
    included in marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember
    services. The Company continually evaluates its reserve
    methodology and assumptions based on developments in redemption
    patterns, cost per point redeemed, contract changes and other
    factors.

DEFERRED
    CHARGE CARD FEES

The carrying amount of deferred charge card and other fees, net
    of direct acquisition costs and reserves for membership
    cancellations as of December 31 were as follows:

(a)

Includes deferred fees for
    Membership Rewards program participants.

NOTE 12

DERIVATIVES
    AND HEDGING  
    ACTIVITIES  

The Company uses derivative financial instruments (derivatives)
    to manage exposure to various market risks. Market risk is the
    risk to earnings or value resulting from movements in market
    prices. The Company s market risk exposure is primarily
    generated by:

Interest rate risk in its card, insurance and Travelers Cheque
    businesses, as well as its investment portfolios; and

Foreign exchange risk in its operations outside the United
    States.

General principles and the overall framework for managing market
    risk across the Company are defined in the Market Risk Policy,
    which is the responsibility of the Asset-Liability Committee
    (ALCO). Market risk limits and escalation triggers in that
    policy are approved by the ALCO and by the Enterprise-wide Risk
    Management Committee (ERMC). Market risk is centrally monitored
    for compliance with policy and limits by the Market Risk
    Committee, which reports into the ALCO and is chaired by the
    Chief Market Risk Officer. Market risk management is also guided
    by policies covering the use of derivatives, funding and
    liquidity and investments. Derivatives derive their value from
    an underlying variable or multiple variables, including interest
    rate, foreign exchange, and equity indices or prices. These
    instruments enable end users to increase, reduce or alter
    exposure to various market risks and, for that reason, are an
    integral component of the Company s market risk management.
    The Company does not engage in derivatives for trading purposes.

The Company s market exposures are in large part byproducts
    of the delivery of its products and services. Interest rate risk
    arises through the funding of cardmember receivables and
    fixed-rate loans with variable-rate borrowings as well as
    through the risk to net interest margin from changes in the
    relationship between benchmark rates such as Prime and LIBOR.

Interest rate exposure within the Company s charge card and
    fixed-rate lending products is managed by varying the proportion
    of total funding provided by short-term and variable-rate debt
    and deposits compared to fixed-rate debt and deposits. In
    addition, interest rate swaps are used from time to time to
    effectively convert fixed-rate debt to variable-rate or to
    convert variable-rate debt to fixed rate. The Company may change
    the mix between variable-rate and fixed-rate funding based on
    changes in business volumes and mix, among other factors.

Foreign exchange risk is generated by cardmember cross-currency
    charges, foreign currency balance sheet exposures, foreign
    subsidiary equity, and foreign currency earnings in units
    outside the United States. The Company s foreign exchange
    risk is managed primarily by entering into agreements to buy and
    sell currencies on a spot basis or by hedging this market
    exposure to the extent it is economically

92

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

justified through various means, including the use of
    derivatives such as foreign exchange forward, and cross-currency
    swap contracts, which can help  lock in  the value of
    the Company s exposure to specific currencies.

Derivatives may give rise to counterparty credit risk. The
    Company manages this risk by considering the current exposure,
    which is the replacement cost of contracts on the measurement
    date, as well as estimating the maximum potential value of the
    contracts over the next 12 months, considering such factors
    as the volatility of the underlying or reference index. To
    mitigate derivative credit risk, counterparties are required to
    be pre-approved and rated as investment grade. Counterparty risk
    exposures are monitored by the Company s Institutional Risk
    Management Committee (IRMC). The IRMC formally reviews large
    institutional exposures to ensure compliance with the
    Company s ERMC guidelines and procedures and determines the
    risk mitigation actions, when necessary. Additionally, in order
    to mitigate the bilateral counterparty credit risk associated
    with derivatives, the Company has, in certain limited instances,
    entered into agreements with its derivative counterparties
    including master netting agreements, which may provide a right
    of offset for certain exposures between the parties.

In relation to the Company s credit risk, under the terms
    of the derivative agreements it has with its various
    counterparties, the Company is not required to either
    immediately settle any outstanding liability balances or post
    collateral upon the occurrence of a specified credit
    risk-related event. In relation to counterparty credit risk, as
    of December 31, 2010 and 2009, such risk associated with
    the Company s derivatives was not significant. The
    Company s derivatives are carried at fair value on the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets. The accounting for changes in fair
    value depends on the instruments  intended use and the
    resulting hedge designation, if any, as discussed below. Refer
    to Note 3 for a description of the Company s
    methodology for determining the fair value of its derivatives.

The following table summarizes the total gross fair value,
    excluding interest accruals, of derivative assets and
    liabilities as of December 31:

(a)

Includes foreign currency
    derivatives embedded in certain operating agreements.

(b)

Represents an equity-linked
    derivative embedded in one of the Company s investment
    securities.

(c)

GAAP permits the netting of
    derivative assets and derivative liabilities when a legally
    enforceable master netting agreement exists between the Company
    and its derivative counterparty. As of December 31, 2010
    and 2009, $18 million and $33 million, respectively,
    of derivative assets and liabilities have been offset and
    presented net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

DERIVATIVE
    FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS THAT QUALIFY FOR HEDGE ACCOUNTING

Derivatives executed for hedge accounting purposes are
    documented and designated as such when the Company enters into
    the contracts. In accordance with its risk management policies,
    the Company structures its hedges with very similar terms to the
    hedged items. The Company formally assesses, at inception of the
    hedge accounting relationship and on a quarterly basis, whether
    derivatives designated as hedges are highly effective in
    offsetting the fair value or cash flows of the hedged items.
    These assessments usually are made through the application of
    the regression analysis method. If it is determined that a
    derivative is not highly effective as a hedge, the Company will
    discontinue the application of hedge accounting.

FAIR
    VALUE HEDGES

A fair value hedge involves a derivative designated to hedge the
    Company s exposure to future changes in the fair value of
    an asset or a liability, or an identified portion thereof that
    is attributable to a particular risk. The Company is exposed to
    interest rate risk associated with its fixed-rate long-term
    debt. The Company uses interest rate swaps to convert certain
    fixed-rate long-term debt to floating-rate at the time of
    issuance. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company
    hedged $15.9 billion

93

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

and $15.1 billion, respectively, of its fixed-rate debt to
    floating-rate debt using interest rate swaps.

To the extent the fair value hedge is effective, the gain or
    loss on the hedging instrument offsets the loss or gain on the
    hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. Any difference
    between the changes in the fair value of the derivative and the
    hedged item is referred to as hedge ineffectiveness and is
    reflected in earnings as a component of other, net expenses.
    Hedge ineffectiveness may be caused by differences between the
    debt s interest coupon and the benchmark rate, which are
    primarily due to credit spreads at inception of the hedging
    relationship that are not reflected in the valuation of the
    interest rate swap. Furthermore, hedge ineffectiveness may be
    caused by changes in the relationship between
     3-month 
    LIBOR and
     1-month 
    LIBOR rates, as these so-called basis spreads may impact the
    valuation of the interest rate swap without causing an
    offsetting impact in the value of the hedged debt. If a fair
    value hedge is de-designated or no longer considered to be
    effective, changes in fair value of the derivative continue to
    be recorded through earnings but the hedged asset or liability
    is no longer adjusted for changes in fair value due to changes
    in interest rates. The existing basis adjustment of the hedged
    asset or liability is then amortized or accreted as an
    adjustment to yield over the remaining life of that asset or
    liability.

The following table summarizes the impact on the Consolidated
    Statements of Income associated with the Company s hedges
    of fixed-rate long-term debt described above:

The Company also recognized a net reduction in interest expense
    on long-term debt and other of $522 million,
    $464 million and $122 million for the three years
    ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively,
    primarily related to the net settlements (interest accruals) on
    the Company s interest rate derivatives designated as fair
    value hedges.

CASH
    FLOW HEDGES

A cash flow hedge involves a derivative designated to hedge the
    Company s exposure to variable future cash flows
    attributable to a particular risk. Such exposures may relate to
    either an existing recognized asset or liability or a forecasted
    transaction. The Company hedges existing long-term variable-rate
    debt, the rollover of short-term borrowings and the anticipated
    forecasted issuance of additional funding through the use of
    derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps. These derivative
    instruments effectively convert floating-rate debt to fixed-rate
    debt for the duration of the instrument. As of December 31,
    2010 and 2009, the Company hedged $1.3 billion and
    $1.6 billion, respectively, of its floating debt using
    interest rate swaps.

For derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, the effective
    portion of the gain or loss on the derivatives is recorded in
    AOCI and reclassified into earnings when the hedged cash flows
    are recognized in earnings. The amount that is reclassified into
    earnings is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income
    in the same line item in which the hedged instrument or
    transaction is recognized, primarily in interest expense. Any
    ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the derivatives is
    reported as a component of other, net expenses. If a cash flow
    hedge is de-designated or terminated prior to maturity, the
    amount previously recorded in AOCI is recognized into earnings
    over the period that the hedged item impacts earnings. If a
    hedge relationship is discontinued because it is probable that
    the forecasted transaction will not occur according to the
    original strategy, any related amounts previously recorded in
    AOCI are recognized into earnings immediately.

In the normal course of business, as the hedged cash flows are
    recognized into earnings, the Company expects to reclassify
    $11 million of net pretax losses on derivatives from AOCI
    into earnings during the next 12 months.

NET
    INVESTMENT HEDGES

A net investment hedge is used to hedge future changes in
    currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation.
    The Company primarily designates foreign currency derivatives,
    typically foreign exchange forwards, and on occasion foreign
    currency denominated debt, as hedges of net investments in
    certain foreign operations. These instruments reduce exposure to
    changes in currency exchange rates on the Company s
    investments in
     non-U.S. subsidiaries. 
    The effective portion of the gain or loss on net investment
    hedges is recorded in AOCI as part of the cumulative translation
    adjustment. Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on net
    investment hedges is recognized in other, net expenses during
    the period of change.

94

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The following table summarizes the impact of cash flow hedges
    and net investment hedges on the Consolidated Statements of
    Income:

DERIVATIVES
    NOT DESIGNATED AS HEDGES

The Company has derivatives that act as economic hedges but are
    not designated for hedge accounting purposes. Foreign currency
    transactions and
     non-U.S. dollar 
    cash flow exposures from time to time may be partially or fully
    economically hedged through foreign currency contracts,
    primarily foreign exchange forwards, options and cross-currency
    swaps. These hedges generally mature within one year. Foreign
    currency contracts involve the purchase and sale of a designated
    currency at an agreed upon rate for settlement on a specified
    date. The changes in the fair value of the derivatives
    effectively offset the related foreign exchange gains or losses
    on the underlying balance sheet exposures. From time to time,
    the Company may enter into interest rate swaps to specifically
    manage funding costs related to its proprietary card business.

The Company has certain operating agreements whose payments may
    be linked to a market rate or price, primarily foreign currency
    rates. The payment components of these agreements may meet the
    definition of an embedded derivative, which is assessed to
    determine if it requires separate accounting and reporting. If
    so, the embedded derivative is accounted for separately and is
    classified as a foreign exchange contract based on its primary
    risk exposure. In addition, the Company also holds an investment
    security containing an embedded equity-linked derivative.

For derivatives that are not designated as hedges, changes in
    fair value are reported in current period earnings.

The following table summarizes the impact of derivatives not
    designated as hedges on the Consolidated Statements of Income:

(a)

For the years ended
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, foreign exchange contracts
    include embedded foreign currency derivatives. Gains (losses) on
    these embedded derivatives are included in other, net expenses.

95

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

NOTE 13

GUARANTEES  

The Company provides cardmember protection plans that cover
    losses associated with purchased products, as well as certain
    other guarantees in the ordinary course of business which are
    within the scope of GAAP governing the accounting for
    guarantees. For the Company, guarantees primarily consist of
    card and travel protection programs, including:

Credit Card Registry   cancels and requests
    replacement of lost or stolen cards, and provides for fraud
    liability coverage;

Return Protection   refunds the price of eligible
    purchases made with the card where the merchant will not accept
    the return for up to 90 days from the date of purchase;

Account Protection   provides account protection in
    the event that a cardmember is unable to make payments on the
    account due to unforeseen hardship; and,

Merchant Protection   protects cardmembers primarily
    against non-delivery of goods and services, usually in the event
    of bankruptcy or liquidation of a merchant. In the event that a
    dispute is resolved in the cardmember s favor, the Company
    will generally credit the cardmember account for the amount of
    the purchase and will seek recovery from the merchant. If the
    Company is unable to collect the amount from the merchant, it
    will bear the loss for the amount credited to the cardmember.
    The Company mitigates this risk by withholding settlement from
    the merchant or obtaining deposits and other guarantees from
    merchants considered higher risk due to various factors. The
    amounts being held by the Company are not significant when
    compared to the maximum potential amount of undiscounted future
    payments.

In relation to its maximum amount of undiscounted future
    payments as seen in the table that follows, to date the Company
    has not experienced any significant losses related to
    guarantees. The Company s initial recognition of guarantees
    is at fair value, which has been determined in accordance with
    GAAP governing fair value measurement. In addition, the Company
    establishes reserves when an unfavorable outcome is probable and
    the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.

The following table provides information related to such
    guarantees as of December 31:

(a)

Represents the notional amounts
    that could be lost under the guarantees and indemnifications if
    there were a total default by the guaranteed parties. The
    Merchant Protection guarantee is calculated using
    management s best estimate of maximum exposure based on all
    eligible claims as measured against annual billed business
    volumes.

(b)

Included as part of other
    liabilities on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets.

(c)

Includes Credit Card Registry,
    Return Protection, Account Protection and Merchant Protection,
    which the Company offers directly to cardmembers.

(d)

Primarily includes guarantees
    related to the Company s business dispositions, real estate
    and tax, as well as contingent consideration obligations, each
    of which are individually smaller indemnifications.

Refer to Note 26 for a discussion of additional guarantees
    of the Company as of December 31, 2010 and 2009.

96

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

NOTE 14

COMMON
    AND PREFERRED SHARES AND WARRANTS  

As of December 31, 2010, the Company has 86 million
    common shares remaining under share repurchase authorizations.
    Such authorizations do not have an expiration date, and at
    present, there is no intention to modify or otherwise rescind
    the current authorizations.

Common shares are generally retired by the Company upon
    repurchase (except for 4.7 million, 5.0 million and
    0.4 million shares held as treasury shares as of
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively); retired
    common shares and treasury shares are excluded from the shares
    outstanding in the table below. The treasury shares, with a cost
    basis of $219 million, $235 million and
    $21 million as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, are included as a reduction to additional paid-in
    capital in shareholders  equity on the Consolidated Balance
    Sheets.

The following table shows authorized shares and provides a
    reconciliation of common shares issued and outstanding for the
    years ended December 31:

(a)

Of the common shares authorized but
    unissued as of December 31, 2010, approximately
    104 million shares were reserved for issuance under
    employee stock and employee benefit plans.

The Board of Directors is authorized to permit the Company to
    issue up to 20 million preferred shares at a par value of
    $1.66 2 / 3 
    without further shareholder approval.

On January 9, 2009, under the United States Department of
    the Treasury (Treasury Department) Capital Purchase Program
    (CPP), the Company issued to the Treasury Department as
    consideration for aggregate proceeds of $3.39 billion:
    (1) 3.39 million shares of Fixed Rate (5 percent)
    Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Shares Series A (the
    Preferred Shares), and (2) a ten-year warrant (the Warrant)
    for the Treasury Department to purchase up to 24 million
    common shares at an exercise price of $20.95 per share.

On June 17, 2009, the Company repurchased the Preferred
    Shares at their face value of $3.39 billion and the
    $212 million in excess of the amortized carrying amount
    represented an in-substance Preferred Share dividend that
    reduced earnings per share (EPS) attributable to common
    shareholders by $0.18 for the year ended December 31, 2009.
    Refer to Note 18.

On July 29, 2009, the Company repurchased the Warrant for
    $340 million. There were no preferred shares or warrants
    issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and 2009.

97

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

NOTE 15

CHANGES
    IN ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME  

AOCI is a balance sheet item in the Shareholders  Equity
    section of the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. It is
    comprised of items that have not been recognized in earnings but
    may be recognized in earnings in the future when certain events
    occur. Changes in each component of AOCI for the three years
    ended December 31 were as follows:

(a)

The following table shows the tax
    impact for the three years ended December 31 for the changes in
    each component of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income:

(b)

Relates to the change in
    accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income prior to the
    dispositions of AEB and AEIDC.

(c)

Includes a $190 million other
    comprehensive loss, recorded in the third quarter of 2009,
    representing the correction of an error related to the
    accounting in prior periods for cumulative translation
    adjustments associated with a net investment in foreign
    subsidiaries. (Refer to Note 19 for further details).

(d)

As described further in
    Notes 6 and 7, as a result of the adoption of new GAAP
    effective January 1, 2010, the Company no longer presents
    within its Consolidated Financial Statements the effects of the
    retained subordinated securities issued by previously
    unconsolidated VIEs related to the Company s cardmember
    loan securitization programs.

98

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

NOTE 16

RESTRUCTURING
    CHARGES  

During 2010, the Company recorded $96 million of
    restructuring charges, net of adjustments of previously accrued
    amounts due to revisions of prior estimates. The 2010 activity
    primarily relates to a $98 million charge reflecting
    employee severance obligations to consolidate certain facilities
    within the Company s global servicing network. In addition,
    the Company expects to record further charges in one or more
    quarterly periods during 2011 relating to these facility
    consolidations totaling between $60 million and
    $80 million. The total expected additional charges include
    lease exit (approximately 60 percent) and employee
    compensation (approximately 40 percent) costs. It is
    estimated that these costs will be recorded to the business
    units as follows: USCS (73 percent), International Card
    Services (ICS) (5 percent), GCS (12 percent), and
    Global Network Merchant Services (GNMS) (10 percent). As a
    result of this initiative, approximately 3,200 positions will be
    eliminated; however, overall staffing levels are expected to
    decrease by approximately 400 positions on a net basis as new
    employees are hired at the locations to which work is being
    transferred. The remaining 2010 activity includes
    $25 million of additional charges comprised of several
    smaller initiatives which were more than offset by adjustments
    of $(27) million that relate to revisions of prior
    estimates for higher employee redeployments to other positions
    within the Company and modifications to existing initiatives.

During 2009, the Company recorded $185 million of
    restructuring charges, net of adjustments of previously accrued
    amounts due to revisions of prior estimates. The 2009 activity
    primarily relates to the $199 million of restructuring
    charges the Company recorded in the second quarter to further
    reduce its operating costs by downsizing and reorganizing
    certain operations. These restructuring activities were for the
    elimination of approximately 4,000 positions or about
    6 percent of the Company s total worldwide workforce
    and occurred across all business units, markets and staff
    groups. Additional restructuring charges of $38 million
    taken in the third and fourth quarters of 2009 relate
    principally to the reorganization of certain senior leadership
    positions, as well as the exit of a business in the GNMS
    segment. The Company also recorded adjustments of
    $(52) million during 2009 that primarily relate to
    revisions of prior estimates for higher employee redeployments
    to other positions within the Company, business changes and
    modifications to existing initiatives. These modifications do
    not constitute a significant change in the original
    restructuring plan from an overall Company perspective.

During 2008, the Company recorded restructuring charges of
    $434 million, net of adjustments of previously accrued
    amounts due to revisions of prior estimates. While the
    Company s restructuring activity in the first and third
    quarters of 2008 primarily related to exiting certain
    international banking businesses, the Company recorded
    $410 million of restructuring charges in the fourth quarter
    of 2008 in order to further reduce the Company s cost
    structure. This restructuring was for the elimination of
    approximately 7,000 positions or approximately 10 percent
    of its total worldwide workforce. These reductions primarily
    occurred across business units, markets and staff groups
    focusing on management and other positions that do not interact
    directly with customers, and related to reorganizing or
    automating certain internal processes; outsourcing certain
    operations to third parties; and discontinuing or relocating
    business activities to other locations.

Restructuring charges related to severance obligations are
    included in salaries and employee benefits and discontinued
    operations in the Company s Consolidated Statements of
    Income, while charges pertaining to other exit costs are
    included in occupancy and equipment, professional services,
    other, net expenses and discontinued operations.

99

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The following table summarizes the Company s restructuring
    reserves activity for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008:

(a)

Accounted for in accordance with
    the GAAP governing the accounting for nonretirement
    postemployment benefits and for costs associated with exit or
    disposal activities.

(b)

Other primarily includes facility
    exit, asset impairment and contract termination costs.

(c)

Adjustments primarily relate to
    higher than anticipated redeployments of displaced employees to
    other positions within the Company.

(d)

Includes $17 million related
    to discontinued operations.

(e)

Consists primarily of foreign
    exchange impacts. During 2009, the amounts in other also include
    asset impairments directly related to restructuring activity.

(f)

Net adjustments of $27 million
    were recorded in the Company s reportable operating
    segments as follows: $4 million in USCS, $13 million
    in ICS, $(2) million in GCS, and $12 million in
    Corporate   Other. These adjustments primarily relate
    to higher employee redeployments to other positions within the
    Company, business changes and modifications to existing
    initiatives.

(g)

The majority of cash payments
    related to the remaining restructuring liabilities are expected
    to be completed in 2012, with the exception of certain smaller
    amounts related to contractual long-term severance arrangements
    which are expected to be completed in 2013, and certain lease
    obligations which will continue until their expiration in 2018.

The following table summarizes the Company s restructuring
    charges, net of adjustments, by reportable segment for the year
    ended December 31, 2010, and the cumulative amounts
    relating to the restructuring programs that were in progress
    during 2010 and initiated at various dates between 2007 and 2010.

(a)

The Corporate   Other
    segment includes certain severance and other charges of
    $125 million, related to Company-wide support functions
    which were not allocated to the Company s operating
    segments, as these were corporate initiatives, which is
    consistent with how such charges were reported internally.

(b)

As of December 31, 2010, the
    total expenses to be incurred for previously approved
    restructuring activities that were in progress are not expected
    to be materially different than the cumulative expenses incurred
    to date for these programs, except for those 2011 charges noted
    above.

100

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

NOTE 17

INCOME
    TAXES  

The components of income tax expense for the years ended
    December 31 included in the Consolidated Statements of Income
    were as follows:

A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate of
    35 percent to the Company s actual income tax rate for
    the years ended December 31 on continuing operations was as
    follows:

(a)

Relates to the resolution of tax
    matters in various jurisdictions.

The Company records a deferred income tax (benefit) provision
    when there are differences between assets and liabilities
    measured for financial reporting and for income tax return
    purposes. These temporary differences result in taxable or
    deductible amounts in future years and are measured using the
    tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such differences
    are expected to reverse.

The significant components of deferred tax assets and
    liabilities as of December 31 are reflected in the following
    table:

A valuation allowance is established when management determines
    that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the
    benefit of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The
    valuation allowances as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 are
    associated with net operating losses and other deferred tax
    assets in certain
     non-U.S. operations 
    of the Company.

Accumulated earnings of certain
     non-U.S. subsidiaries, 
    which totaled approximately $7.4 billion as of
    December 31, 2010, are intended to be permanently
    reinvested outside the United States. The Company does not
    provide for federal income taxes on foreign earnings intended to
    be permanently reinvested outside the United States.
    Accordingly, federal taxes, which would have aggregated
    approximately $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2010,
    have not been provided on those earnings.

Net income taxes paid by the Company (including amounts related
    to discontinued operations) during 2010, 2009 and 2008, were
    approximately $0.8 billion, $0.4 billion and
    $2.0 billion, respectively. These amounts include estimated
    tax payments and cash settlements relating to prior tax years.

The Company, its wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries, and
    certain
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    file a consolidated federal income tax return. The Company is
    subject to the income tax laws of the United States, its states
    and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in
    which the Company operates. These tax laws are complex, and the
    manner in which they apply to the taxpayer s facts is
    sometimes open to interpretation. Given these inherent
    complexities, the Company must make judgments in assessing the
    likelihood that a tax position will be sustained upon
    examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical
    merits of the tax position. A tax position is recognized only
    when, based on management s judgment regarding the
    application of income tax laws, it is more likely

101

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

than not that the tax position will be sustained upon
    examination. The amount of benefit recognized for financial
    reporting purposes is based on management s best judgment
    of the most likely outcome resulting from examination given the
    facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting
    date. The Company adjusts the level of unrecognized tax benefits
    when there is new information available to assess the likelihood
    of the outcome.

The Company is under continuous examination by the Internal
    Revenue Service (IRS) and tax authorities in other countries and
    states in which the Company has significant business operations.
    The tax years under examination and open for examination vary by
    jurisdiction. In June 2008, the IRS completed its field
    examination of the Company s federal tax returns for the
    years 1997 through 2002. In July 2009, the IRS completed its
    field examination of the Company s federal tax returns for
    the years 2003 and 2004. However, all of these years continue to
    remain open as a consequence of certain issues under appeal. The
    Company is currently under examination by the IRS for the years
    2005 through 2007.

The following table presents changes in unrecognized tax
    benefits:

Included in the $1.4 billion, $1.1 billion and
    $1.2 billion of unrecognized tax benefits as of
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, are
    approximately $476 million, $480 million and
    $452 million, respectively, that, if recognized, would
    favorably affect the effective tax rate in a future period.

The Company believes it is reasonably possible that the
    unrecognized tax benefits could decrease within the next
    12 months by as much as $991 million principally as a
    result of potential resolutions of prior years  tax items
    with various taxing authorities. The prior years  tax items
    include unrecognized tax benefits relating to the timing of
    recognition of certain gross income, the deductibility of
    certain expenses or losses and the attribution of taxable income
    to a particular jurisdiction or jurisdictions. Of the
    $991 million of unrecognized tax benefits, approximately
    $320 million relates to temporary differences that, if
    recognized, would only impact the effective rate due to net
    interest assessments and state tax rate differentials and
    approximately $404 million relates to amounts recorded to
    equity that, if recognized, would not impact the effective rate.
    With respect to the remaining decrease of $267 million, it
    is not possible to quantify the impact that the decrease could
    have on the effective tax rate and net income due to the
    inherent complexities and the number of tax years open for
    examination in multiple jurisdictions. Resolution of the prior
    years  items that comprise this remaining amount could have
    an impact on the effective tax rate and on net income, either
    favorably (principally as a result of settlements that are less
    than the liability for unrecognized tax benefits) or unfavorably
    (if such settlements exceed the liability for unrecognized tax
    benefits).

Interest and penalties relating to unrecognized tax benefits are
    reported in the income tax provision.  During
    the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the
    Company recognized approximately $31 million,
    $1 million and $60 million, respectively, of interest
    and penalties. The Company has approximately $226 million
    and $282 million accrued for the payment of interest and
    penalties as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

102

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

NOTE 18

EARNINGS
    PER COMMON SHARE  

The computations of basic and diluted EPS for the years ended
    December 31 were as follows:

(a)

Includes the accelerated preferred
    dividend accretion of $212 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2009, due to the repurchase of
    $3.39 billion of preferred shares on June 17, 2009
    issued as part of the CPP. Also includes $74 million of
    preferred dividends paid and $20 million of preferred
    dividend accretion during 2009.

(b)

The Company s unvested
    restricted stock awards, which include the right to receive
    non-forfeitable dividends or dividend equivalents, are
    considered participating securities. Calculations of EPS under
    the two-class method (i) exclude any dividends paid or owed
    on participating securities and any undistributed earnings
    considered to be attributable to participating securities from
    the numerator and (ii) exclude the participating securities
    from the denominator.

(c)

For the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the dilutive effect of
    unexercised stock options excludes 36 million,
    71 million and 45 million options, respectively, from
    the computation of EPS because inclusion of the options would
    have been anti-dilutive.

Subordinated debentures of $750 million issued by the
    Company in 2006 would affect the EPS computation only in the
    unlikely event the Company fails to achieve specified
    performance measures related to the Company s tangible
    common equity and consolidated net income. In that circumstance
    the Company would reflect the additional common shares in the
    EPS computation.

NOTE 19

DETAILS
    OF CERTAIN CONSOLIDATED 
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME LINES  

The following is a detail of other commissions and fees for the
    years ended December 31:

The following is a detail of other revenues for the years ended
    December 31:

Other revenues include insurance premiums earned from cardmember
    travel and other insurance programs, publishing revenues,
    revenues arising from contracts with Global Network Services
    (GNS) partners including royalties and signing fees, and other
    miscellaneous revenue and fees.

The following is a detail of marketing, promotion, rewards and
    cardmember services for the years ended December 31:

Marketing and promotion expense includes advertising costs,
    which are expensed in the year in which the advertising first
    takes place. Cardmember rewards expense includes the costs of
    rewards programs (including Membership Rewards, discussed in
    Note 11). Cardmember services expense includes protection
    plans and complimentary services provided to cardmembers.

103

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The following is a detail of other, net expense for the years
    ended December 31:

(a)

Includes in 2009, (i) a
    $135 million benefit representing the correction of an
    error related to the accounting for cumulative translation
    adjustments associated with a net investment in foreign
    subsidiaries, (ii) a $45 million benefit resulting
    from the change in the fair value of certain forward exchange
    contracts, (iii) a $59 million benefit related to the
    completion of certain account reconciliations and
    (iv) lower travel and entertainment and other expenses due
    to the Company s reengineering activities.

Other, net expense includes general operating expenses, gains
    (losses) on sale of assets or businesses not classified as
    discontinued operations, and litigation and insurance costs or
    settlements.

NOTE 20

STOCK
    PLANS  

STOCK
    OPTION AND AWARD PROGRAMS

Under the 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan and previously under
    the 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan, awards may be granted to
    employees and other key individuals who perform services for the
    Company and its participating subsidiaries. These awards may be
    in the form of stock options, restricted stock awards or units
    (RSAs), portfolio grants (PGs) or other incentives, and similar
    awards designed to meet the requirements of
     non-U.S. jurisdictions. 

For the Company s Incentive Compensation Plans, there were
    a total of 40 million, 37 million and 45 million
    common shares unissued and available for grant as of
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, as
    authorized by the Company s Board of Directors and
    shareholders.

The Company granted stock option awards to its Chief Executive
    Officer (CEO) in November 2007 and January 2008 that have
    performance-based and market-based conditions. These option
    awards are separately described and are excluded from the
    information and tables presented in the following paragraphs.

A summary of stock option and RSA activity as of
    December 31, 2010, and changes during the year ended is
    presented below:

The Company recognizes the cost of employee stock awards granted
    in exchange for employee services based on the grant-date fair
    value of the award, net of expected forfeitures. Those costs are
    recognized ratably over the vesting period.

STOCK
    OPTIONS

Each stock option has an exercise price equal to the market
    price of the Company s common stock on the date of grant
    and a contractual term of 10 years from the date of grant.
    Stock options generally vest 25 percent per year beginning
    with the first anniversary of the grant date.

The weighted-average remaining contractual life and the
    aggregate intrinsic value (the amount by which the fair value of
    the Company s stock exceeds the exercise price of the
    option) of the stock options outstanding, exercisable, and
    vested and expected to vest as of December 31, 2010 were as
    follows:

The intrinsic value for options exercised during 2010, 2009 and
    2008 was $130 million, $11 million and
    $79 million, respectively (based upon the fair value of the
    Company s stock price at the date of exercise). Cash
    received from the exercise of stock options in 2010, 2009 and
    2008 was $619 million, $83 million and
    $176 million, respectively. The tax benefit realized from
    income tax deductions from stock option exercises, which was
    recorded in additional paid-in capital, in 2010, 2009 and 2008
    was $35 million, $2 million and $21 million,
    respectively.

104

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The fair value of each option is estimated on the date of grant
    using a Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model. The following
    weighted-average assumptions are used for grants issued in 2010,
    2009 and 2008, the majority of which were granted in the
    beginning of each year:

(a)

The expected volatility is based on
    weighted historical and implied volatilities of the
    Company s common stock price.

(b)

In 2010, the expected life of stock
    options was determined using historical data and expectations of
    options currently outstanding. In 2009 and 2008, the expected
    life of stock options was determined using historical data.

STOCK
    OPTIONS WITH PERFORMANCE-BASED AND  MARKET-BASED CONDITIONS

On November 30, 2007 and January 31, 2008, the
    Company s CEO was granted in the aggregate 2,750,000 of
    non-qualified stock option awards with performance-based and
    market-based conditions. Both awards have a contractual term of
    10 years and a vesting period of 6 years.

The aggregate grant date fair value of options with performance
    based conditions was approximately $33.8 million.
    Compensation expense for these awards will be recognized over
    the vesting period when it is determined it is probable that the
    performance metrics will be achieved. No compensation expense
    for these awards was recorded in 2010, 2009 and 2008.

The aggregate grant date fair value of options with market-based
    conditions was approximately $10.5 million. Compensation
    expense for these awards is recognized ratably over the vesting
    period irrespective of the probability of the market metric
    being achieved. Total compensation expense of $2.4 million
    was recorded in each of the years 2010, 2009 and 2008.

RESTRICTED
    STOCK AWARDS

RSAs are valued based on the stock price on the date of grant
    and generally vest 25 percent per year, beginning with the
    first anniversary of the grant date. RSA holders receive
    non-forfeitable dividends or dividend equivalents. The total
    fair value of shares vested during 2010, 2009 and 2008 was
    $175 million, $44 million and $134 million,
    respectively (based upon the Company s stock price at the
    vesting date).

The weighted-average grant date fair value of RSAs granted in
    2010, 2009 and 2008, is $38.63, $18.04 and $48.29, respectively.

LIABILITY
    BASED AWARDS

Certain employees are awarded PGs and other incentive awards
    that can be settled with cash or equity shares at the
    Company s discretion and final Compensation and Benefits
    Committee payout approval. These awards earn value based on
    performance and service conditions and vest over periods of one
    to three years.

PGs and other incentive awards are classified as liabilities
    and, therefore, the fair value is determined at the date of
    grant and remeasured quarterly as part of compensation expense
    over the performance and service periods. Cash paid upon vesting
    of these awards was $64 million, $71 million and
    $78 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

SUMMARY
    OF STOCK PLAN EXPENSE

The components of the Company s total stock-based
    compensation expense (net of cancellations) for the years ended
    December 31 are as follows:

(a)

As of December 31, 2010, the
    total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested RSAs
    and options was $257 million and $59 million,
    respectively. The unrecognized cost for RSAs and options will be
    recognized ratably over the remaining vesting period. The
    weighted-average remaining vesting period for RSAs and options
    is 3.5 years and 2.3 years, respectively.

(b)

The total income tax benefit
    recognized in the income statement for stock-based compensation
    arrangements in December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was
    $100 million, $81 million and $90 million,
    respectively.

NOTE 21

RETIREMENT
    PLANS  

The Company sponsors defined benefit pension plans, defined
    contribution plans, and other postretirement benefit plans for
    its employees. The following table provides a summary of the
    total cost related to these plans for the years ended December
    31:

The expenses in the above table are recorded in salaries and
    employee benefits in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

DEFINED
    BENEFIT PENSION PLANS

The Company s significant defined benefit pension plans
    cover certain employees in the United States and United Kingdom.
    Most employees outside the United States and United Kingdom are
    covered by local retirement plans, some of which are funded,
    while other employees receive payments at the time of retirement
    or termination under applicable labor laws or agreements. The
    Company complies with the minimum funding requirements in all
    countries.

105

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The Company sponsors the U.S. American Express Retirement
    Plan (the Plan) for eligible employees in the United States. The
    Plan is a noncontributory defined benefit plan and a
    tax-qualified retirement plan subject to the Employee Retirement
    Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA). The Plan is
    closed to new entrants and existing participants no longer
    accrue future benefits. The Company funds retirement costs
    through a trust and complies with the applicable minimum funding
    requirements specified by ERISA. The funded status of the Plan
    on an ERISA basis as of October 1, 2010 (applicable plan
    year) is 95 percent. The calculation assumptions for ERISA
    differ from the calculation of the net funded status for GAAP
    purposes (see Net Funded Status as of December 31, 2010 and
    2009 in the table below).

The Plan is a cash balance plan and employees  accrued
    benefits are based on notional account balances, which are
    maintained for each individual. Employees  balances are
    credited daily with interest at a fixed-rate. The interest rate
    varies from a minimum of 5 percent to a maximum equal to
    the lesser of (i) 10 percent or (ii) the
    applicable interest rate set forth in the Plan.

The Company also sponsors an unfunded non-qualified plan, which
    was renamed the Retirement Restoration Plan (the RRP) effective
    January 1, 2011, for employees compensated above a certain
    level to supplement their pension benefits that are limited by
    the Internal Revenue Code. The RRP s terms generally
    parallel those of the Plan, except that the definitions of
    compensation and payment options differ.

For each plan, the net funded status is defined by GAAP
    governing retirement benefits as the difference between the fair
    value of plan assets and the respective plan s projected
    benefit obligation.

As of December 31, 2010, the net funded status related to
    the defined benefit pension plans was underfunded by
    $383 million, as shown in the following table:

The net funded status amounts as of December 31, 2010 and
    2009 are recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in other
    liabilities.

Plan
    Assets and Obligations

The following tables provide a reconciliation of changes in the
    fair value of plan assets and projected benefit obligations for
    all defined benefit pension plans as of December 31:

Reconciliation
    of Change in Fair Value of Plan Assets  

Reconciliation
    of Change in Projected Benefit Obligation  

Accumulated
    Other Comprehensive Loss

The following table provides the amounts comprising accumulated
    other comprehensive loss, which are not yet recognized as
    components of net periodic pension benefit cost as of December
    31:

The estimated portion of the net actuarial loss and net prior
    service cost that is expected to be recognized as a component of
    net periodic pension benefit cost in 2011 is $28 million
    and nil, respectively.

106

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The following table lists the amounts recognized in other
    comprehensive loss in 2010:

(Millions) 

2010 

Net actuarial loss:

Reclassified to earnings from
    equity (a) 

$ 

(41 

) 

Losses in current
    year (b) 

34 

Net actuarial loss, pretax

(7 

) 

Net prior service cost:

Reclassified to earnings from equity

1 

Total, pretax

$ 

(6 

) 

(a)

Amortization of actuarial losses
    and recognition of losses related to lump sum settlements.

(b)

Deferral of actuarial losses.

Benefit
    Obligations

The accumulated benefit obligation in a defined benefit pension
    plan is the present value of benefits earned to date by plan
    participants computed based on current compensation levels as
    contrasted to the projected benefit obligation, which is the
    present value of benefits earned to date by plan participants
    based on their expected future compensation at their projected
    retirement date.

The accumulated and projected benefit obligations for all
    defined benefit pension plans as of December 31 were as follows:

The accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets
    for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligation that
    exceeds the fair value of plan assets were as follows:

The projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets
    for pension plans with projected benefit obligation that exceeds
    the fair value of plan assets as of December 31 were as follows:

Net
    Periodic Pension Benefit Cost

The components of the net periodic pension benefit cost for all
    defined benefit pension plans for the years ended December 31
    were as follows:

(a)

Current value of benefits earned by
    employees during the period.

(b)

Estimated interest incurred on the
    outstanding projected benefit obligation during the period.

(c)

Expected return on the market
    related value of plan assets.

(d)

Costs that result from plan
    amendments, which are amortized over the expected future service
    period of the employees impacted.

(e)

Amortization of the accumulated
    losses which exceed 10 percent of the greater of the
    projected benefit obligation or the market related value of plan
    assets.

(f)

Recognition of the actuarial losses
    resulting from lump sum settlements of the benefit obligation.

(g)

Gains resulting from a reduction in
    the benefit obligation due to a decrease in the expected years
    of future service of current plan participants.

Assumptions

The weighted-average assumptions used to determine defined
    benefit pension obligations as of December 31 were as follows:

The weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic
    pension benefit costs as of December 31 were as follows:

The Company assumes a long-term rate of return on assets on a
    weighted-average basis. In developing this assumption,
    management considers expected and historical returns over 5 to
    15 years based on the mix of assets in its plans.

The discount rate assumptions are determined using a model
    consisting of bond portfolios that match the cash flows of the
    plan s projected benefit payments based on the plan
    participants  service to date and their expected future
    compensation. Use of the rate produced by this model generates a
    projected benefit obligation that equals the current market
    value of a portfolio of high-quality zero-coupon bonds whose
    maturity dates and amounts match the timing and amount of
    expected future benefit payments.

107

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Asset
    Allocation and Fair Value

The Benefit Plans Investment Committee (BPIC) is appointed by
    the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Company s
    Board of Directors and has the responsibility of reviewing and
    approving the investment policies related to plan assets for the
    Company s defined benefit pension plans; evaluating the
    performance of the investments in accordance with the investment
    policy; reviewing the investment objectives, risk
    characteristics, expenses and historical performance; and
    selecting, removing and evaluating the investment managers. The
    BPIC typically meets quarterly to review the performance of the
    various investment managers and service providers as well as
    other investment related matters. The Company s significant
    defined benefit pension plans have investment policies, which
    prescribe targets for the amount of assets that can be invested
    in a security class in order to mitigate the detrimental impact
    of adverse or unexpected results with respect to any individual
    security class on the overall portfolio. The portfolios are
    diversified by asset type, risk characteristics and
    concentration of investments. Refer to Note 3 for a
    discussion related to valuation techniques used to measure fair
    value, including a description of the three-level fair value
    hierarchy of inputs.

The following tables summarize the target allocation and
    categorization of all defined benefit pension plan assets
    measured at fair value on a recurring basis by GAAP s
    valuation hierarchy:

As of December 31, 2010: 

(a)

A significant portion of
    international investments are in U.K. companies and U.K.
    government and agency securities.

(b)

Consists of investments in private
    equity and real estate funds measured at reported net asset
    value.

As of December 31, 2009:

(a)

A significant portion of
    international investments are in U.K. companies and U.K.
    government and agency securities.

(b)

Consists of investments in private
    equity, real estate and hedge funds measured at reported net
    asset value.

108

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The fair value measurement of all defined benefit pension plan
    assets using significant unobservable inputs
    (Level 3) changed during the years ended December 31:

Benefit
    Payments

The Company s defined benefit pension plans expect to make
    benefit payments to retirees as follows:

In addition, the Company expects to contribute $46 million
    to its defined benefit pension plans in 2011.

DEFINED
    CONTRIBUTION RETIREMENT PLANS

The Company sponsors defined contribution retirement plans, the
    principal plan being the Retirement Savings Plan (RSP), a 401(k)
    savings plan with a profit sharing component. The RSP is a
    tax-qualified retirement plan subject to ERISA and covers most
    employees in the United States. The RSP held 12 million and
    13 million shares of American Express Common Stock as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, beneficially for
    employees. The Company matches employee contributions to the
    plan up to a maximum of 5 percent of total pay, subject to
    the limitations under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC).
    Additional annual conversion contributions of up to
    8 percent of total pay are provided into the RSP for
    eligible employees. The Company also sponsors an RSP RRP, which
    is an unfunded non-qualified plan for employees whose RSP
    benefits are limited by the IRC and its terms generally parallel
    those of the RSP. In addition, the RSP RRP was amended effective
    January 1, 2011 such that the Company matches employee
    contributions up to a maximum of 5 percent of total pay in
    excess of IRC compensation limits only to the extent the
    employee contributes to the plan.

The total expense for all defined contribution retirement plans
    globally was $217 million, $118 million and
    $211 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The
    increase in expense in 2010 primarily reflects the
    Company s reinstatement in January of the employer match
    and conversion contributions.

OTHER
    POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS

The Company sponsors unfunded other postretirement benefit plans
    that provide health care and life insurance to certain retired
    U.S. employees.

Accumulated
    Other Comprehensive Loss

The following table provides the amounts comprising accumulated
    other comprehensive loss which are not yet recognized as
    components of net periodic benefit cost as of December 31:

The estimated portion of the net actuarial loss above that is
    expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic benefit
    cost in 2011 is $2 million.

The following table lists the amounts recognized in other
    comprehensive loss in 2010:

(Millions) 

2010 

Net actuarial loss:

Reclassified to earnings from equity

$ 

(2 

) 

Gains in current year

(8 

) 

Net actuarial loss, pretax

$ 

(10 

) 

Benefit
    Obligations

The projected benefit obligation represents a liability based
    upon estimated future medical and other benefits to be provided
    to retirees.

The following table provides a reconciliation of the changes in
    the projected benefit obligation:

The plans are unfunded and the obligations as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 are recognized in the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets in other liabilities.

Net
    Periodic Benefit Cost

GAAP provides for the delayed recognition of the net actuarial
    loss and the net prior service credit remaining in accumulated
    other comprehensive (loss) income.

109

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The components of the net periodic benefit cost for all other
    postretirement benefit plans for the years ended December 31
    were as follows:

ASSUMPTIONS

The weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit
    obligations were:

The weighted-average discount rate used to determine net
    periodic benefit cost was 5.4 percent, 6.0 percent and
    6.1 percent in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The
    discount rate assumption is determined by using a model
    consisting of bond portfolios that match the cash flows of the
    plan s projected benefit payments. Use of the rate produced
    by this model generates a projected benefit obligation that
    equals the current market value of a portfolio of high-quality
    zero-coupon bonds whose maturity dates and amounts match the
    timing and amount of expected future benefit payments.

A one percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend
    rates would have the following effects:

Benefit
    Payments

The Company s other postretirement benefit plans expect to
    make benefit payments as follows:

In addition, the Company expects to contribute $23 million
    to its other postretirement benefit plans in 2011.

NOTE 22

SIGNIFICANT
    CREDIT  
    CONCENTRATIONS  

Concentrations of credit risk exist when changes in economic,
    industry or geographic factors similarly affect groups of
    counterparties whose aggregate credit exposure is material in
    relation to American Express  total credit exposure. The
    Company s customers operate in diverse industries, economic
    sectors and geographic regions.

The following table details the Company s maximum credit
    exposure by category, including the credit exposure associated
    with derivative financial instruments, as of December 31:

(a)

Individuals primarily include
    cardmember loans and receivables.

(b)

Financial institutions primarily
    include debt obligations of banks, broker-dealers, insurance
    companies and savings and loan associations.

(c)

U.S. Government and agencies
    represent debt obligations of the U.S. Government and its
    agencies, states and municipalities and government sponsored
    entities.

(d)

All other primarily includes
    cardmember receivables from other corporate institutions.

(e)

Certain distinctions between
    categories require management judgment.

(f)

Because charge card products have
    no preset spending limit, the associated credit limit on
    cardmember receivables is not quantifiable. Therefore, the
    quantified unused
     line-of-credit 
    amounts only include the approximate credit line available on
    cardmember loans (including both for on-balance sheet loans and
    loans previously securitized).

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company s most
    significant concentration of credit risk was with individuals,
    including cardmember receivables and loans. These amounts are
    generally advanced on an unsecured basis. However, the Company
    reviews each potential customer s credit application and
    evaluates the applicant s financial history and ability and
    willingness to repay. The Company also considers credit
    performance by customer tenure, industry and geographic location
    in managing credit exposure.

110

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The following table details the Company s cardmember loans
    and receivables exposure (including unused
     lines-of-credit 
    on cardmember loans) in the United States and outside the United
    States as of December 31:

(a)

Represents cardmember loans to
    individuals as well as receivables from individuals and
    corporate institutions as discussed in footnotes (a) and
    (d) from the previous table.

The remainder of the Company s on-balance sheet credit
    exposure includes cash, investments, other loans, other
    receivables and other assets, including derivative financial
    instruments. These balances are primarily within the United
    States.

EXPOSURE
    TO AIRLINE INDUSTRY

The Company has multiple co-brand relationships and rewards
    partners, of which airlines are one of the most important and
    valuable. The Company s largest airline co-brand is Delta
    Air Lines (Delta) and this relationship includes exclusive
    co-brand credit card partnerships and other arrangements,
    including Membership Rewards, merchant acceptance and travel.
    American Express  Delta SkyMiles Credit Card co-brand
    portfolio accounts for approximately 5 percent of the
    Company s worldwide billed business and less than
    15 percent of worldwide cardmember lending receivables.

In recent years, there have been a significant number of airline
    bankruptcies and liquidations, driven in part by volatile fuel
    costs and weakening economies around the world. Historically,
    the Company has not experienced significant revenue declines
    when a particular airline scales back or ceases operations due
    to a bankruptcy or other financial challenges because volumes
    generated by that airline are typically shifted to other
    participants in the industry that accept the Company s card
    products. The Company s exposure to business and credit
    risk in the airline industry is primarily through business
    arrangements where the Company has remitted payment to the
    airline for a cardmember purchase of tickets that have not yet
    been used or  flown . The Company mitigates this risk
    by delaying payment to the airlines with deteriorating financial
    situations, thereby increasing cash withheld to protect the
    Company in the event the airline is liquidated. To date, the
    Company has not experienced significant losses from airlines
    that have ceased operations.

NOTE 23

REGULATORY
    MATTERS AND CAPITAL  

ADEQUACY  

The Company is supervised and regulated by the Federal Reserve
    and is subject to the Federal Reserve s requirements for
    risk-based capital and leverage ratios. The Company s two
    U.S. bank operating subsidiaries, Centurion Bank and FSB
    (collectively, the  Banks ), are subject to
    supervision and regulation, including similar regulatory capital
    requirements by the FDIC and the Office of Thrift Supervision
    (OTS). As of July 21, 2011, subject to a possible six-month
    extension, supervision and regulation of FSB will be transferred
    to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), pursuant
    to the Dodd-Frank Reform Act.

The Federal Reserve s guidelines for capital adequacy
    define two categories of risk-based capital: Tier 1 and
    Tier 2 capital (as defined in the regulations). Under the
    risk-based capital guidelines of the Federal Reserve, the
    Company is required to maintain minimum ratios of Tier 1
    and Total (Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to
    risk-weighted assets, as well as a minimum leverage ratio
    (Tier 1 capital to average adjusted on-balance sheet
    assets).

Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate
    certain mandatory, and possibly additional, discretionary
    actions by regulators, that, if undertaken, could have a direct
    material effect on the Company s and the Banks 
    operating activities.

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company and its Banks
    were well-capitalized and met all capital requirements to which
    each was subject. Management is not aware of any events
    subsequent to December 31, 2010 that would materially,
    adversely affect the Company s and the Banks  2010
    capital ratios.

111

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The following table presents the regulatory capital ratios for
    the Company and the Banks:

(a)

FSB leverage ratio represents
    Tier 1 core capital ratio (as defined by regulations issued
    by the OTS), calculated similarly to Tier 1 leverage ratio.

(b)

Since January 2009, FSB has
    committed to maintain a Total capital ratio of no less than
    15 percent. During 2009, enhancements were made to the
    American Express Credit Account Master Trust used to securitize
    credit card receivables issued by both FSB and Centurion Bank.
    As a result of these enhancements, the Banks began holding
    capital against their off-balance sheet trust assets. The
    Company infused $1.4 billion and $475 million of
    additional capital into FSB and Centurion Bank, respectively,
    during 2009 and in connection with the foregoing increased
    capital commitment for FSB and the impact of the trust
    enhancements for both FSB and Centurion Bank.

(c)

As defined by the regulations
    issued by the Federal Reserve, OCC, OTS and FDIC.

(d)

Represents requirements for banking
    subsidiaries to be considered  well capitalized 
    pursuant to regulations issued under the Federal Deposit
    Insurance Corporation Improvement Act. There is no  well
    capitalized  definition for the Tier 1 leverage ratio
    for a bank holding company.

RESTRICTED
    NET ASSETS OF SUBSIDIARIES

Certain of the Company s subsidiaries are subject to
    restrictions on the transfer of net assets under debt agreements
    and regulatory requirements. These restrictions have not had any
    effect on the Company s shareholder dividend policy and
    management does not anticipate any impact in the future.
    Procedures exist to transfer net assets between the Company and
    its subsidiaries, while ensuring compliance with the various
    contractual and regulatory constraints. As of December 31,
    2010, the aggregate amount of net assets of subsidiaries that
    are restricted to be transferred to American Express 
    Parent Company (Parent Company) was approximately
    $9.3 billion.

BANK
    HOLDING COMPANY DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

The Company is limited in its ability to pay dividends by the
    Federal Reserve which could prohibit a dividend that would be
    considered an unsafe or unsound banking practice. It is the
    policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies
    generally should pay dividends on common stock only out of net
    income available to common shareholders generated over the past
    year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent
    with the organization s current and expected future capital
    needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Moreover,
    bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that
    undermine a company s ability to be a source of strength to
    its banking subsidiaries. Under guidance issued by the Federal
    Reserve in November 2010, a large bank holding company will face
    particularly close scrutiny for any proposed dividend that
    exceeds 30 percent of after-tax net income.

BANKS 
    DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

In the year ended December 31, 2008, Centurion Bank and FSB
    paid dividends from retained earnings to its parent of
    $650 million and $150 million, respectively. No
    dividends were paid in 2010 and 2009.

The Banks are subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on
    their ability to pay dividends. The total amount of dividends
    which may be paid at any date, subject to supervisory
    considerations of the Banks  regulators, is generally
    limited to the retained earnings of the respective bank. As of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Banks  retained
    earnings, in the aggregate, available for the payment of
    dividends were $3.6 billion and $2.1 billion,
    respectively. In determining the dividends to pay its parent,
    the Banks must also consider the effects on applicable
    risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements, as well as
    policy statements of the federal regulatory agencies. In
    addition, the Banks  banking regulators have authority to
    limit or prohibit the payment of a dividend by the Banks, if, in
    the banking regulator s opinion, payment of a dividend
    would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice in light
    of the financial condition of the banking organization.

112

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

NOTE 24

COMMITMENTS
    AND CONTINGENCIES  

LEGAL
    CONTINGENCIES

The Company and its subsidiaries are involved in a number of
    legal proceedings concerning matters arising in connection with
    the conduct of their respective business activities and are
    periodically subject to governmental examinations (including by
    regulatory authorities), information gathering requests,
    subpoenas, inquiries and investigations (collectively,
     governmental examinations ). As of December 31,
    2010, the Company and various of its subsidiaries were named as
    a defendant or were otherwise involved in numerous legal
    proceedings and governmental examinations in various
    jurisdictions, both in the United States and outside the United
    States. The Company discloses certain of its more significant
    legal proceedings and governmental examinations under
     Legal Proceedings  in its Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2010 ( Legal
    Proceedings ).

The Company has recorded liabilities for certain of its
    outstanding legal proceedings and governmental examinations. A
    liability is accrued when it is both (a) probable that a
    loss with respect to the legal proceeding has occurred and
    (b) the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated
    (although, as discussed below, there may be an exposure to loss
    in excess of the accrued liability). The Company evaluates, on a
    quarterly basis, developments in legal proceedings and
    governmental examinations that could cause an increase or
    decrease in the amount of the liability that has been previously
    accrued.

The Company s legal proceedings range from cases brought by
    a single plaintiff to class actions with hundreds of thousands
    of putative class members. These legal proceedings, as well as
    governmental examinations, involve various lines of business of
    the Company and a variety of claims (including, but not limited
    to, common law tort, contract, antitrust and consumer protection
    claims), some of which present novel factual allegations
     and/or 
    unique legal theories. While some matters pending against the
    Company specify the damages claimed by the plaintiff, many seek
    a not-yet-quantified amount of damages or are at very early
    stages of the legal process. Even when the amount of damages
    claimed against the Company are stated, the claimed amount may
    be exaggerated
     and/or 
    unsupported. As a result, some matters have not yet progressed
    sufficiently through discovery
     and/or 
    development of important factual information and legal issues to
    enable the Company to estimate a range of possible loss.

Other matters have progressed sufficiently through discovery
     and/or 
    development of important factual information and legal issues
    such that the Company is able to estimate a range of possible
    loss. Accordingly, for those legal proceedings and governmental
    examination disclosed in Legal Proceedings as to which a loss is
    reasonably possible in future periods, whether in excess of a
    related accrued liability or where there is no accrued
    liability, and for which the Company is able to estimate a range
    of possible loss, the current estimated range is zero to
    $500 million in excess of the accrued liability (if any)
    related to those matters. This aggregate range represents
    management s estimate of possible loss with respect to
    these matters and is based on currently available information.
    This estimated range of possible loss does not represent the
    Company s maximum loss exposure. The legal proceedings and
    governmental examinations underlying the estimated range will
    change from time to time and actual results may vary
    significantly from the current estimate.

Based on its current knowledge, and taking into consideration
    its litigation-related liabilities, the Company believes it is
    not a party to, nor are any of its properties the subject of,
    any pending legal proceeding or governmental examination that
    would have a material adverse effect on the Company s
    consolidated financial condition or liquidity. However, in light
    of the uncertainties involved in such matters, the ultimate
    outcome of a particular matter could be material to the
    Company s operating results for a particular period
    depending on, among other factors, the size of the loss or
    liability imposed and the level of the Company s income for
    that period.

VISA
    AND MASTERCARD SETTLEMENTS

As previously disclosed, the Company reached settlement
    agreements with Visa and MasterCard. Under the terms of the
    settlement agreements, the Company will receive aggregate
    maximum payments of $4.05 billion. The settlement with Visa
    comprised an initial payment of $1.13 billion
    ($700 million after-tax) that was recorded as a gain in
    2007. Having met quarterly performance criteria, the Company
    recognized $280 million ($172 million after-tax) from
    Visa in 2010, 2009 and 2008, and $600 million
    ($372 million after-tax) from MasterCard in 2010 and 2009,
    respectively, and $300 million ($186 million
    after-tax) in 2008. The remaining Visa and MasterCard quarterly
    payments, subject to the Company achieving certain quarterly
    performance criteria, continue through the fourth and second
    quarters of 2011, respectively. These payments are included in
    other, net expenses within the Corporate   Other
    segment.

OTHER
    CONTINGENCIES

The Company also has contingent obligations to make payments
    under contractual agreements entered into as part of the ongoing
    operation of the Company s business, primarily with
    co-brand partners. The contingent obligations under such
    arrangements were approximately $7.5 billion as of
    December 31, 2010.

113

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

RENT
    EXPENSE AND LEASE COMMITMENTS

The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under
    noncancelable and cancelable agreements. The total rental
    expense amounted to $250 million in 2010, $362 million
    in 2009 (including lease termination penalties of
    $36 million) and $337 million in 2008.

As of December 31, 2010, the minimum aggregate rental
    commitment under all noncancelable operating leases (net of
    subleases of $25 million) was as follows:

As of December 31, 2010, the Company s future minimum
    lease payments under capital leases or other similar
    arrangements is approximately $12 million per annum from
    2011 through 2013, $14 million in 2014, $6 million in
    2015 and $35 million thereafter.

NOTE 25

REPORTABLE
    OPERATING SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC OPERATIONS  

REPORTABLE
    OPERATING SEGMENTS

The Company is a leading global payments and travel company that
    is principally engaged in businesses comprising four reportable
    operating segments: USCS, ICS, GCS and GNMS.

The Company considers a combination of factors when evaluating
    the composition of its reportable operating segments, including
    the results reviewed by the chief operating decision maker,
    economic characteristics, products and services offered, classes
    of customers, product distribution channels, geographic
    considerations (primarily United States versus non-U.S.), and
    regulatory environment considerations. The following is a brief
    description of the primary business activities of the
    Company s four reportable operating segments:

USCS issues a wide range of card products and services to
    consumers and small businesses in the United States, and
    provides consumer travel services to cardmembers and other
    consumers.

ICS issues proprietary consumer and small business cards outside
    the United States.

GCS offers global corporate payment and travel-related products
    and services to large and mid-sized companies.

GNMS operates a global general-purpose charge and credit card
    network, which includes both proprietary cards and cards issued
    under network partnership agreements. It also manages merchant
    services globally, which includes signing merchants to accept
    cards as well as processing and settling card transactions for
    those merchants. This segment also offers merchants
     point-of-sale 
    products, servicing and settlements, and marketing and
    information programs and services.

Corporate functions and auxiliary businesses, including the
    Company s publishing business, the Enterprise Growth Group
    (including the Global Prepaid Group), as well as other company
    operations are included in Corporate   Other.

Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, the Company made changes
    to the manner in which it allocates equity capital as well as
    funding and the related interest expense charged to its
    reportable operating segments. The changes reflect the inclusion
    of additional factors in its allocation methodologies that the
    Company believes more accurately reflect the capital
    characteristics and funding requirements of its segments. The
    segment results for 2009 and 2008 have been revised for this
    change.

Beginning in 2009, the Company changed the manner by which it
    assesses the performance of its reportable operating segments to
    exclude the impact of its excess liquidity funding levels.
    Accordingly, the debt, cash and investment balances associated
    with the Company s excess liquidity funding and the related
    net negative interest spread are not included within the
    reportable operating segment results (primarily USCS and GCS
    segments) and are reported in the Corporate   Other
    segment for 2010 and 2009. The segment results for 2008 have not
    been revised for this change.

114

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The following table presents certain selected financial
    information as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 and for
    each of the years then ended:

(a)

Corporate   Other
    includes adjustments and eliminations for intersegment activity.

Total
    Revenues Net of Interest Expense

The Company allocates discount revenue and certain other
    revenues among segments using a transfer pricing methodology.
    Segments earn discount revenue based on the volume of merchant
    business generated by cardmembers. Within the USCS, ICS and GCS
    segments, discount revenue reflects the issuer component of the
    overall discount rate; within the GNMS segment, discount revenue
    reflects the network and merchant component of the overall
    discount rate. Total interest income and net card fees are
    directly attributable to the segment in which they are reported.

Provisions
    for Losses

The provisions for losses are directly attributable to the
    segment in which they are reported.

Expenses

Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses
    are reflected in each segment based on actual expenses incurred,
    with the exception of brand advertising, which is reflected in
    the GNMS segment. Rewards and cardmember services expenses are
    reflected in each segment based on actual expenses incurred
    within each segment. Salaries and employee benefits and other
    operating expenses reflect expenses such as professional
    services, occupancy and equipment and communications incurred
    directly within each segment. In addition, expenses related to
    the Company s support services, such as technology costs,
    are allocated to each segment based on support service
    activities directly attributable to the segment.

115

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Other overhead expenses, such as staff group support functions,
    are allocated from Corporate   Other to the other
    segments based on each segment s relative level of pretax
    income, with the exception of certain fourth quarter 2008
    severance and other related charges of $133 million from
    the Company s fourth quarter restructuring initiatives for
    staff group support functions. This presentation is consistent
    with how such charges were reported internally. See further
    discussion in Note 16 regarding this corporate initiative.
    Financing requirements are managed on a consolidated basis.
    Funding costs are allocated based on segment funding
    requirements.

Capital

Each business segment is allocated capital based on established
    business model operating requirements, risk measures and
    regulatory capital requirements. Business model operating
    requirements include capital needed to support operations and
    specific balance sheet items. The risk measures include
    considerations for credit, market and operational risk.

Income
    Taxes

Income tax provision (benefit) is allocated to each business
    segment based on the effective tax rates applicable to various
    businesses that make up the segment.

GEOGRAPHIC
    OPERATIONS

The following table presents the Company s total revenues
    net of interest expense and pretax income (loss) from continuing
    operations in different geographic regions:

(a)

EMEA represents Europe, Middle East
    and Africa, JAPA represents Japan, Asia/Pacific and Australia
    and LACC represents Latin America, Canada and Caribbean.

(b)

Other Unallocated includes net
    costs which are not directly allocable to specific geographic
    regions, including costs related to the net negative interest
    spread on excess liquidity funding and executive office
    operations expenses.

(c)

The data in the above table is, in
    part, based upon internal allocations, which necessarily involve
    management s judgment. Certain revisions and
    reclassifications have been made to 2009 and 2008 to conform to
    2010 classifications and internal allocation methodology.

116

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

NOTE 26

PARENT
    COMPANY  

Parent
    Company   Condensed Statements of Income

Parent
    Company   Condensed Balance Sheets

SUPPLEMENTAL
    DISCLOSURE

The Parent Company guarantees up to $107 million of
    indebtedness under lines of credit that subsidiaries have with
    various banks. As of December 31, 2010, there were no draw
    downs against these lines.

117

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Parent
    Company   Condensed Statements of Cash Flows

118

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

NOTE 27

QUARTERLY
    FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)  

(a)

The results of operations for the
    quarter ended December 31, 2010 include restructuring
    charges in the amount of $98 million. Refer to Note 16
    for further discussion of these items.

(b)

The results for the quarter ended
    September 30, 2009 include (i) a $135 million
    benefit representing the correction of an error related to the
    accounting for cumulative translation adjustments associated
    with a net investment in foreign subsidiaries and (ii) a
    $45 million benefit resulting from the change in the fair
    value of certain forward exchange contracts. The results of
    operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 include a
    $59 million benefit related to the completion of certain
    account reconciliations. Refer to Note 19 for further
    discussion of these items.

(c)

The results of operations for the
    quarter ended June 30, 2009 include restructuring charges
    in the amount of $199 million. Refer to Note 16 for
    further discussion of these items.

119

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN
    EXPRESS COMPANY

CONSOLIDATED
    FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  

(a)

In 2007, the Company entered into
    an agreement to sell its international banking subsidiary, AEB,
    and its subsidiary that issues investment certificates to
    AEB s customers, AEIDC, to Standard Chartered subject to
    certain regulatory approvals. The results, assets and
    liabilities of AEB (except for certain components of the
    business which were not sold) are presented as discontinued
    operations. Additionally, the spin-off of Ameriprise and certain
    dispositions were completed in 2006 and 2005, and the results of
    these operations are presented as discontinued operations. Refer
    to Note 2 for additional information on discontinued
    operations.

(b)

Return on average equity is
    calculated by dividing one-year period of net income by one-year
    average of total shareholders  equity.

(c)

Prior to June 30, 2010, the
    Company misclassified certain book overdraft balances against
    cash balances on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such overdraft
    balances have been reclassified to either accounts payable or
    other liabilities as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.

(d)

Refer to Note 7 for discussion
    of the impact of new GAAP effective January 1, 2010.

(e)

Amounts include employees from
    discontinued operations.

120

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 9
 y87970exv21.htm
 EX-21

exv21 

Exhibit 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT 

Unless otherwise indicated, all of the voting securities of these subsidiaries are directly or
indirectly owned by the registrant. Where the name of the subsidiary is indented, the voting
securities of such subsidiary are owned directly by the company under which its name is indented. 

State / Country of  

Name  
       
      Country Name  
       
      Incorporation  

American Express Company

United States 
       
     New York 

56th Street AXP Campus LLC

United States 
       
     Arizona 

American Express Austria Bank GmbH

Austria 
       
     Austria 

American Express Bank LLC

Russian Federation 
       
     Russia 

American Express Bank Ltd. S.A.

Argentina 
       
     Argentina 

American Express Banking Corp.

United States 
       
     Arizona 

American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.

United States 
       
     New York 

Accertify, Inc.

United States 
       
     United States 

American Express Bank (Mexico) S.A. Institucion de Banca Multiple

Mexico 
       
     Mexico 

American Express Bank Services, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 
       
     Mexico 

American Express Bank FSB

United States 
       
     Utah 

American Express Receivables Financing Corporation IV LLC

United States 
       
     Delaware 

American Express Business Loan Corporation

United States 
       
     Utah 

American Express Centurion Bank

United States 
       
     Utah 

American Express Receivables Financing Corporation III LLC

United States 
       
     Delaware 

American Express Company (Mexico) S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 
       
     Mexico 

American Express Insurance Services, Agente de Seguros, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 
       
     Mexico 

American Express Servicios Profesionales, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 
       
     Mexico 

American Express Credit Corporation

United States 
       
     New York 

American Express Capital Australia

Australia 
       
     New South Wales 

American Express Credit Mexico, LLC

United States 
       
     Delaware 

Fideicomiso Empresarial Amex

Mexico 
       
     Mexico 

American Express Euro Funding Limited Partnership

United Kingdom 
       
     United Kingdom 

American Express Overseas Credit Corporation Limited

Jersey 
       
     Jersey 

AEOCC Management Company Limited

Jersey 
       
     Jersey 

American Express Overseas Credit Corporation N.V.

Netherlands Antilles 
       
     Netherlands Antilles 

AE Hungary Holdings Limited Liability Company

Hungary 
       
     Hungary 

American Express Canada Credit Corporation

Canada 
       
     Canada 

American Express Canada Finance Limited

Canada 
       
     Canada 

American Express Sterling Funding Limited Partnership

United Kingdom 
       
     United Kingdom 

American Express Funding (Luxembourg) S.a.r.l

Luxembourg 
       
     Luxembourg 

Credco Receivables Corp.

United States 
       
     Delaware 

American Express Dutch Capital, LLC

United States 
       
     Delaware 

American Express Global Financial Services Inc.

United States 
       
     Delaware 

American Express GP Japan K.K.

Japan 
       
     Japan 

American Express Holdings Netherlands CV

Netherlands 
       
     Cayman Islands 

American Express Insurance Agency of Puerto Rico, Inc.

Puerto Rico 
       
     Puerto Rico 

American Express International (NZ), Inc.

United States 
       
     Delaware 

American Express Limited

United States 
       
     Delaware 

American Express (Malaysia) SDN. BHD.

Malaysia 
       
     Malaysia 

American Express (Thai) Company Limited

Thailand 
       
     Thailand 

American Express Brasil Assessoria Empresarial Ltda.

Brazil 
       
     Brazil 

American Express European Holdings B.V.

Netherlands 
       
     Netherlands 

Alpha Card S.C.R.L/C.V.B.A

Belgium 
       
     Belgium 

Alpha Card Merchant Services S.C.R.L/C.V.B.A

Belgium 
       
     Belgium 

BCC Corporate NV/SA

Belgium 
       
     Belgium 

American Express International (B) SDN BHD

Brunei Darussalam 
       
     Brunei Darussalam 

American Express International Holdings, LLC

United States 
       
     Delaware 

American Express Argentina S.A.

Argentina 
       
     Argentina 

American Express Holdings (France) SAS

France 
       
     France 

American Express France SAS

France 
       
     France 

American Express Carte France SA

France 
       
     France 

American Express Change SAS

France 
       
     France 

1 

State / Country of  

Name  
       
      Country Name  
       
      Incorporation  

American Express Paris SAS

France 
       
     France 

American Express Services SA

France 
       
     France 

American Express Voyages SAS

France 
       
     France 

American Express Management

France 
       
     France 

American Express France Finance SNC

France 
       
     France 

American Express International, Inc.

United States 
       
     Delaware 

AE Exposure Management Limited

Jersey 
       
     Jersey 

American Express (India) Private Limited

India 
       
     New Delhi 

American Express Asia Network Consulting (Beijing) Limited Company

China 
       
     China 

American Express Company AS

Norway 
       
     Norway 

American Express Continental, LLC

United States 
       
     Delaware 

Amex Global Holdings C.V.

Jersey 
       
     Jersey 

American Express Australia Limited

Australia 
       
     New South Wales 

American Express Wholesale Currency Services Pty Limited

Australia 
       
     New South Wales 

South Pacific Credit Card Limited

New Zealand 
       
     New Zealand 

Centurion Finance Limited

New Zealand 
       
     New Zealand 

American Express Euro Travel Holdings B.V.

Netherlands 
       
     Netherlands 

American Express Business Travel AB

Sweden 
       
     Sweden 

American Express Business Travel ApS

Denmark 
       
     Denmark 

American Express Business Travel AS

Norway 
       
     Norway 

American Express Corporate Travel BVBA

Belgium 
       
     Belgium 

American Express Hungary Travel Related Services Ltd.

Hungary 
       
     Hungary 

American Express spol. s.r.o.

Czech Republic 
       
     Czech Republic 

American Express Travel Services Vostok LLC

Russian Federation 
       
     Russia 

AMERICAN EXPRESS INTERNATIONAL SERVICES  Limited Liability Company

Russian Federation 
       
     Russia 

American Express Denmark A/S

Denmark 
       
     Denmark 

American Express Europe Limited

United States 
       
     Delaware 

American Express Group Services Limited

United Kingdom 
       
     United Kingdom 

American Express Holding AB

Sweden 
       
     Sweden 

Forsakringsaktiebolaget Viator

Sweden 
       
     Sweden 

American Express Holdings Limited

United Kingdom 
       
     United Kingdom 

American Express Insurance Services Europe Limited

United Kingdom 
       
     United Kingdom 

American Express Services Europe Limited

United Kingdom 
       
     United Kingdom 

Uvet American Express Corporate Travel S.p.A.

Italy 
       
     Italy 

Congress Lab S.r.l.

Italy 
       
     Italy 

American Express Hungary Financial Services Ltd

Hungary 
       
     Hungary 

American Express International (Taiwan), Inc.

Taiwan 
       
     Taiwan, Province of China 

American Express International SA

Greece 
       
     Greece 

American Express Japan Co., Ltd.

Japan 
       
     Japan 

American Express Locazioni Finanziarie s.r.l

Italy 
       
     Italy 

American Express Payment Services Limited

United Kingdom 
       
     United Kingdom 

American Express Poland S.A.

Poland 
       
     Poland 

American Express Reiseb ro GmbH

Austria 
       
     Austria 

American Express Services India Limited

India 
       
     New Delhi 

American Express Swiss Holdings GmbH

Switzerland 
       
     Switzerland 

Swisscard AECS AG

Switzerland 
       
     Switzerland 

American Express Travel (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 
       
     Singapore 

American Express Travel Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited

Hong Kong 
       
     Hong Kong 

CITS American Express Air Services Limited

China 
       
     China 

CITS American Express Southern China Air Services Limited

China 
       
     China 

CITS American Express Travel Services Limited

China 
       
     China 

Farrington American Express Travel Services Limited

Hong Kong 
       
     Hong Kong 

2 

State / Country of  

Name  
       
      Country Name  
       
      Incorporation  

American Express Travel Holdings (M) Company SDN. BHD.

Malaysia 
       
     Malaysia 

Amex Broker Assicurativo s.r.l.

Italy 
       
     Italy 

Amex General Insurance Agency, Inc.

Taiwan 
       
     Taiwan, Province of China 

Amex Life Insurance Marketing, Inc.

Taiwan 
       
     Taiwan, Province of China 

Amex Travel Holding (Japan) Limited

Japan 
       
     Japan 

American Express Nippon Travel Agency, Inc.

Japan 
       
     Japan 

Interactive Transaction Solutions Limited

United Kingdom 
       
     United Kingdom 

Interactive Transactions Solutions SAS

France 
       
     France 

PT American Express Indonesia

Indonesia 
       
     Indonesia 

Sociedad Internacional de Servicios de Panama S.A.

Panama 
       
     Panama 

TransUnion Limited

Hong Kong 
       
     Hong Kong 

American Express Service (Thailand) Company Limited

Thailand 
       
     Thailand 

TRS Card International, Inc.

United States 
       
     Delaware 

American Express de Espana, S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)

Spain 
       
     Spain 

American Express Card Espana, S.A.U.

Spain 
       
     Spain 

American Express Foreign Exchange, S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)

Spain 
       
     Spain 

American Express Viajes, S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)

Spain 
       
     Spain 

American Express Barcelo Viajes SL

Spain 
       
     Spain 

Amex Asesores de Seguros, S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)

Spain 
       
     Spain 

American Express Marketing   Development Corp.

United States 
       
     Delaware 

American Express Prepaid Card Management Corporation

United States 
       
     Arizona 

American Express Publishing Corporation

United States 
       
     New York 

American Express Receivables Financing Corporation II

United States 
       
     Delaware 

American Express Receivables Financing Corporation V LLC

United States 
       
     Delaware 

Amex (Middle East) B.S.C. (closed)

Bahrain 
       
     Bahrain 

Amex (Saudi Arabia) Limited

Saudi Arabia 
       
     Saudi Arabia 

Amex Al Omania LLC

Oman 
       
     Oman 

Amex Egypt LLC

Egypt 
       
     Egypt 

Amex Bank of Canada

Canada 
       
     Canada 

Amex Canada Inc.

Canada 
       
     Canada 

Amex Card Services Company

United States 
       
     Delaware 

Asesor as e Inversiones American Express Chile Limitada

Chile 
       
     Chile 

Bansamex, S.A.

Spain 
       
     Spain 

Business Equipment Capital Corporation

United States 
       
     Delaware 

Cardmember Financial Services Limited

Jersey 
       
     Jersey 

Cavendish Holdings, Inc.

United States 
       
     Delaware 

FRC West Property, LLC

United States 
       
     Arizona 

Serve Virtual Enterprises, Inc.

United States 
       
     Delaware 

Southern Africa Travellers Cheque Company (Pty) Ltd

South Africa 
       
     South Africa 

Travel Impressions, Ltd.

United States 
       
     Delaware 

Travellers Cheque Associates Limited

United Kingdom 
       
     United Kingdom 

AMEX Assurance Company

United States 
       
     Wisconsin 

Amexco Insurance Company

United States 
       
     Vermont 

National Express Company, Inc.

United States 
       
     New York 

The Balcor Company Holdings, Inc.

United States 
       
     Delaware 

The Balcor Company

United States 
       
     Delaware 

Rexport, Inc.

United States 
       
     Delaware 

Drillamex, Inc.

United States 
       
     Delaware 

3 

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 10
 y87970exv23w1.htm

exv23w1 

Exhibit 23.1  

CONSENT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
    Registration Statements
     (Form S-8 
     No. 2-46918, 
     No. 2-59230, 
     No. 2-64285, 
     No. 2-73954, 
     No. 2-89680, 
     No. 33-01771, 
     No. 33-02980, 
     No. 33-28721, 
     No. 33-33552, 
     No. 33-36442, 
     No. 33-48629, 
     No. 33-62124, 
     No. 33-65008, 
     No. 33-53801, 
     No. 333-12683, 
     No. 333-41779, 
     No. 333-52699, 
     No. 333-73111, 
     No. 333-38238, 
     No. 333-98479; 
    and
     No. 333-142710; 
     Form S-3 
     No. 2-89469, 
     No. 33-43268, 
     No. 33-50997, 
     No. 333-32525, 
     No. 333-45445, 
     No. 333-47085, 
     No. 333-55761, 
     No. 333-51828, 
     No. 333-113768, 
     No. 333-117835, 
     No. 333-138032 
    and
     333-162791) 
    of American Express Company of our report dated
    February 25, 2011, relating to the consolidated financial
    statements and the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting, which appears in the 2010 Annual Report to
    Shareholders, which is incorporated by reference in this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

February 25, 2011

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 11
 y87970exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1  

CERTIFICATION   

I, Kenneth I. Chenault, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on
     Form 10-K 
    of American Express Company;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial
    reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
    reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/  Kenneth
    I. Chenault

Kenneth I. Chenault

Chief Executive Officer

Date: February 25, 2011

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 12
 y87970exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2  

CERTIFICATION   

I, Daniel T. Henry, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on
     Form 10-K 
    of American Express Company;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial
    reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
    reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/  Daniel
    T. Henry

Daniel T. Henry

Chief Financial Officer

Date: February 25, 2011

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 13
 y87970exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1  

Certification
    Pursuant to 
    18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 
    as Adopted Pursuant to 
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  

In connection with the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of American Express Company (the  Company ) for the
    fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, as filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
     Report ), Kenneth I. Chenault, as Chief Executive
    Officer of the Company, and Daniel T. Henry, as Chief Financial
    Officer of the Company, each hereby certifies, pursuant to
    18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company.

/s/  Kenneth
    I. Chenault

Name:     Kenneth I. Chenault

Title: 

Chief Executive Officer

Date: February 25, 2011

/s/  Daniel
    T. Henry

Name:     Daniel T. Henry

Title: 

Chief Financial Officer

Date: February 25, 2011

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant
    to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and is not
    being  filed  as part of the
     Form 10-K 
    or as a separate disclosure document for purposes of
    Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended (the  Exchange Act ), or otherwise subject to
    liability under that section. This certification shall not be
    deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the
    Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act except
    to the extent that this Exhibit 32.1 is expressly and
    specifically incorporated by reference in any such filing.

A signed original of this written statement required by
    Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be
    retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and
    Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 14
 axp-20101231.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 15
 axp-20101231.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 16
 axp-20101231_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 17
 axp-20101231_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 18
 axp-20101231_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 19
 axp-20101231_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

